1. INTRODUCTION
BULGARIA IN THE RIGHT DIRECTION
WITH YOU WITH ME MORE-FULL
GERB is the largest centre-right party in Bulgaria, a member of the European People's Party family - the force with the biggest influence in the European Commission and the European Parliament.
We believe in freedom
and democracy, in the
power of the entrepreneurial spirit.
We share the European principles of citizens' rights
and transparency in government.
We believe that we can build a strong Bulgaria that will guarantee security for its citizens,
good living and working conditions.
In less than 4 years we have managed to change the direction of Bulgaria's development.
We will fight to keep this direction.
The path of European development has been started, but yes, it has not been walked.
We have shown that we have the will and the difficulties do not scare us.
We have shown that we know how to find and correct our mistakes.
We have shown that we can be responsible.
THE BULGARIAN REPUBLIC is without ALTERNATI.
WE CONTINUE IN T H E P O-SHOCK
We believe that Bulgaria has only one path - and that is the path of European development, which we have followed so far and will follow in the future;
the improvement of the lives of Bulgarians and the increase of incomes can only be the result of stability and a growing economy.
We believe in and apply European values and standards for democracy and civil rights, and we
follow European policies for growth.
Compliance with European rules has enabled us to rely on European solidarity, which:
so far has provided us with 24 billion leva for investment and development of infrastructure and enterprises in the social, cultural, educational, health and agricultural sectors.
It has allocated BGN 32 billion to Bulgaria for the period 2014-2020 for innovation, education and science, economic growth, youth employment, regional development and agriculture.
Provide an additional 150 million leva to curb youth unemployment in individual regions.
Through EU funds we continue to accelerate the modernisation of the country
We have accepted the challenge to take responsibility for the governance of the country in the difficult times of severe economic crisis, we inherited unreformed state institutions, numerous "leaks" in the spending of public funds, blocked EU funding.
We had less than 4 years to give the state back to the Bulgarians and we spared no effort for this.
In many areas we have succeeded, but there is still much to do and no time to lose.
Proud of what we have achieved
We have accepted the challenge of taking responsibility for the governance of the country in difficult times of global economic crisis and have led the country through it.
However, in less than 4 years we have managed to do a lot:
We strengthened the country financially, prevented a collapse in the economy and maintained the growth trend;
We secured higher revenue collection
and curbed the grey economy;
We recovered and successfully used the EU funds in the Bulgarian economy and the modernization of the country;
Thanks to EU funds, we have invested heavily in the country's infrastructure;
We have launched key reforms - the pension reform,
Judicial,
the educational and
Administrative;
We have launched a battle against organised crime;
WE DIDN'T HIDE OURSELVES
-For the first time in 23 years our country was cited as an example of good development and financial stability.
This has cost the government a lot of effort
and imposed many hardships on citizens, especially the most socially vulnerable.
We did not achieve the desired growth in the economy, incomes did not follow the expectations of the people;
We allowed the attempts of monopolistic structures to increase their profits at the expense of the citizens;
We made personnel mistakes in our desire to solve problems quickly;
WE HAVE THE WILL AND WE WILL FIGHT FOR THE WILL OF THE BULGARIANS TO CONTINUE THE BEGINNING
The accumulated experience and the balance sheet give us the confidence to ask again for trust from the citizens to
continue together on the path of European development.
Power is not an end in itself for us and we have proved it.
For us it is a means to achieve the prosperity desired by all Bulgarians, a better life now and a future for our children.
WE DO NOT BELIEVE that...
Truth is the best policy.
We are at a time when new ideas for the development of the country are being sought and proposed.
In an effort to gain support many will promise what people want, not what can actually happen.
We have chosen the hard path in politics - to be honest, even when it hurts.
We will not promise you miracles.
Bulgaria's development goes through a lot of hard work, the strength and intelligence to set priorities and invest in them, in building on what has already been achieved.
The truth today is we only comment on what can happen, not what can't, even if someone really wants it to.
Our program is fair.
Stability.
In our efforts to make the country better, we should not destroy it first.
Bulgaria needs new investments and economic growth.
This can only happen in a politically-, socially- and financially stable country;
Growth.
Creating new jobs and achieving higher incomes is linked to a working and growing economy.
The state is obliged to help people in difficult situations, but
true prosperity is born only from a working economy.
After the efforts to save the country from the worst blows of the crisis, our efforts will now be focused on creating growth in the economy.
TODAY EVERYONE WILL LOVE THE DAYS AND THE GROWTH, BUT RIGHT NOW THE IMPORTANT QUESTION IS HOW?
It is not the state that creates the economy, employment and income, they are a function of the real sector.
The state makes the rules and shapes the business environment.
The state is obliged to create good rules and to monitor compliance with them, the
state is obliged to maintain a good business environment so that entrepreneurs feel secure and motivated to develop their businesses and make new investments.
All attempts by the state to create large-scale artificial employment at the expense of the taxes collected from citizens only lead to the accumulation of new liabilities for future generations.
The state's efforts should be directed towards sustaining the existing economy
and attracting new investment.
Only with new investments made by Bulgarian companies and foreign investors will new jobs be created and incomes will rise.
The state can support this process.
Before starting to help business, the state should do everything possible not to prevent it from developing.
In addition to low taxes
, the key are a functioning judiciary, a
fast and competent administration, but
above all - a reduction in the number and lightening of all permits and licensing regimes.
Reducing the administrative burden on business will greatly facilitate starting and doing business, the
country will become a more attractive place for new investments.
Fiscal stability is not enough to guarantee economic prosperity,
but in recent years we have received convincing examples that the accumulation of budget deficits, and over a long period of time, leads to upheavals in a country's economy that can disillusion and change the lives of entire generations, making them hostages of past unwise decisions.
We want to give our children a future, not take from theirs;
We will not raise taxes.
We are guided by the understanding that free, educated and informed people can best decide how to use the goods they produce;
We will change the technology of the state machine - mainly by accelerating the introduction of full e-government as a universal measure of accessibility, transparency and speed;
If we want the state to give more money to businesses and citizens, it must collect more taxes from businesses and citizens.
However, there are a number of opportunities for the state to implement policies to develop the economy by taking care of every small and medium-sized enterprise:
Strong control over monopolies and ensuring fair and free competition;
fair allocation of public resources for supplies, works and services, following the principles of transparency, fair competition and best quality at the best possible price;
national programmes to support energy efficiency, peripheral and depopulated areas,
as well as to promote new farms;
making efficient use of EU funds, especially from the competitiveness, innovation, education and science programmes.
Our experience, as well as the experience of other new EU member states, strongly shows that EU funds can be one of the main engines of growth.
We know how.
priority development of science and innovation,
education and qualification of the workforce;
promotion of exports to new high-growth markets;
ensuring energy security and independence, as well as
a fair price for energy resources;
competitive Bulgarian agriculture - one of the industries that can create more employment, and
provide quality and safe food for the Bulgarian consumer.
we will FIGHT FOR THE FUTURE OF EVERY BULGARIAN
Bulgaria, these are the people.
They are the ultimate goal of any public policy.
All efforts to ensure higher economic growth, financial stability, infrastructure, agriculture and education aim at one thing - a higher quality of life for Bulgarian citizens - those who have worked in the previous decades; those who work and take care of their families now; those who are in need; those who are born today.
There can be no other priorities.
Bulgarians - their present and their future.
For those who are in need
, the State has a duty to provide help and support to all Bulgarians in need - the elderly and the sick, people without work and without income.
Depending on the capacity of the economy, the state will take greater care of them.
The priority of our efforts will be mothers and families with children, as well as young people entering the labour market.
We will do our utmost to provide even more favourable conditions for maternity leave, and we
will propose an ambitious programme for higher youth employment.
For more young people in Bulgaria
The demographic problem will be the challenge of the next decades for Bulgaria.
In order to improve the demographic picture it is necessary to have not only a higher birth rate, but also a
targeted policy to keep the young and especially the educated young people in the country.
In order for more of them to choose Bulgaria as their place to live and work, complex policies are needed:
sufficient employment opportunities and income;
security - security of the country, controlled organised crime, low domestic crime;
good education
and healthcare;
safe urban environment,
convenient public infrastructure and transport;
balanced development of the regions.
2. ECONOMY, ENERGY, TOURISM
ICONOMIC GROWTH - FOR THE HIGHER WELL-BEING OF THE NATION
Only economic growth can sustainably guarantee
high employment and high incomes for people.
The government's policies should be geared towards growing the components of Gross Domestic Product (GDP).
The issue of economic development is too important to be part of a single Ministry of Economy, Energy and Tourism (MEET).
Economic growth is the main factor for increasing the well-being of every Bulgarian
, which is why under a GERB government the mega-ministry will be divided into the Ministry of Economy and Tourism and the Ministry of Energy.
Bulgaria has a small and open economy.
The limited economic recovery we saw in 2010, 2011 and 2012 was largely due to significant export growth.
One of the main tools to achieve high economic growth over the next 4 years is to achieve sustained, significant export growth.
In 2012, most EU countries entered a second recession.
The euro area economy contracted by 0.6% and the EU by 0.3%.
This had a negative impact on exports of goods to the EU and in 2012 we registered a 3.1% decline in exports to the EU.
Bulgarian exports are too dependent on the development of the EU economy.
In 2011, exports to the EU accounted for 62.2% of the country's total exports, a marked weakness of the Bulgarian economy.
Over the next four years, the EU economies are expected to grow at a modest rate of a few percent, while the fast-growing third-country economies are expected to grow by more than 7 percent a year.
STIMULATING THE EXPORT
STIMULATING EXPORTS THROUGH COMPANIES - EXPORTERS ENTERING NEW, GROWING MARKETS
We will support Bulgarian enterprises to strengthen their positions in traditional markets
and to enter new, fast-growing markets such as China, India, Russia, Turkey, USA, Canada, the Middle East, etc. by:
Encouraging export-oriented enterprises with grants for technological modernization, introduction of quality management systems, implementation of innovations, development of new products, entry into new markets.
Small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) that export more than 50% of their production will be eligible to apply for a share of the programme.
We support with a grant the associations of different sectors of export-oriented SMEs to open their representative offices in countries with their assessed potential, to develop market research and to assist the entry of Bulgarian companies in these markets.
We are strengthening the presence and activity of the country's trade and economic representative offices in promising markets.
We will redirect trade and economic representatives to countries with potential for Bulgarian exports.
We are expanding cooperation on the basis of public-private partnership with employers' organisations by increasing the number of trade and economic representatives.
A CHANGE IN THE EXPORT PROFILE - we will STIMULATE THE EXPORT OF STOCKS WITH HIGH ADDED VALUE TO REDUCE THE EXPORT OF INGREDIENTS AND MATERIALS
-As a result of the wrong way of redistribution of ownership during the transition and the "defective privatization", Bulgaria's exports have the product profile of an underdeveloped economy.
We export low value-added raw materials and materials and import high value-added finished products.
In 2011, 46.8% of our exports consisted of raw materials (mainly non-ferrous metals, food raw materials, ores, etc.).
To overcome this problem, we will provide focused support to enterprises that transform raw materials and inputs into high added value end products through:
Special grant schemes for technological upgrading, innovation and new product introduction.
Certification under the Investment Promotion Act
to provide state support for training,
cost reduction through the use of the insurance reimbursement preference,
reimbursement of up to 10% of investment costs,
individual administrative services from state and municipal administrations.
DESIGNING THE EXECUTIVE AGENCY TO SUPPORT SMALL AND SMALLER PROJECTS WITH THE AIM OF REALLY SUPPORTING THE INVENTORS
We will reform the Small and Medium Enterprises Promotion Agency to make it a point of reference for every small and medium-sized enterprise that wants to export its products abroad.
A structural reform is needed to allow the Agency to explore foreign markets, to find specific contractors for Bulgarian companies, to advise companies on the export regime, etc.
The reform will include:
Structural changes for the transition of the trade and economic representatives from the Ministry of Economy and Trade to the Executive Agency for the Promotion of Small and Medium Enterprises.
Expanding the Agency's functions and duties through legislative changes.
Accelerated introduction of e-service activities.
Introduction of quantitative and qualitative criteria for the Agency's performance.
Annual evaluation of the Agency's performance by its clients - small and medium-sized enterprises.
Establishment of a permanent Advisory Council with the participation of employers' organisations, sectoral associations and business associations.
INVESTMENTS AND GROWTH IN ECONOMY
STIMULATING EXTERNAL INVESTMENTS IN REAL ECONOMY
Foreign investment in the real economy creates sustainable jobs and contributes to economic growth.
Between 2010 and 2012, they reached over EUR 2 billion.
Almost 100% of investments in the last three years have been in the real economy, unlike in the pre-crisis years.
Then the amount of foreign investment was significantly higher, but concentrated, over 70%, in construction, finance, real estate, which generate growth and employment only in the short term.
Despite the period of the worst financial and economic crisis in the world, Bulgaria managed to maintain the level of investment in the real economy.
As a result of a campaign to present Bulgaria's investment opportunities in key countries, a number of leading manufacturers have launched investments in areas such as electric bus assembling, car parts manufacturing, software centres of leading companies and outsourcing centres, to investments in rose plantations, rose oil and perfumes.
At the beginning of 2012, legislative amendments to the Investment Promotion Act were adopted to increase incentives for investment in Bulgaria.
They enable:
apply a new certification criterion linked to the number of new jobs created;
will further stimulate projects in ICT, service outsourcing, etc., where the amount of investment is not high but the employment generated is significant;
Introduce a new incentive for the reimbursement of contributions by the investor for a period of 2 years;
to include facilitated conditions for third-country investors to acquire the right of residence in the country;
Decentralise the project certification procedure by allowing local authorities to issue a Class B certificate
and to implement incentive measures within their competence.
We will continue to increase foreign investment in the country by actively presenting the country as an investment destination
and providing additional incentives for investors.
STIMULATING INTERNAL INVESTMENTS THROUGH THE SUPPORT OF SMALL AND MEDIUM IMPLEMENTATIONS
The financial and economic crisis has led to reduced consumption, which has changed the investment plans of companies in the country.
Squeezed investment has significantly slowed economic growth in the last 3 years to levels that cannot guarantee employment and income growth.
Between 2008 and 2011, employment in small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) declined by 97 000 people, or around 7%. Turnover fell by more than BGN 2.4 billion, or about 2%.
Half of the drop in turnover is in industry.
Investment in tangible fixed assets per SME fell by 50%.
In these difficult times, the state uses the grant resource of the Operational Programme "Competitiveness" (OPC) to stimulate investment.
In the second half of 2012 alone, contracts for over BGN 800 million were concluded.
These projects will be implemented in the current year 2013.
Since the beginning of the programming period, more than 85% of the programme funds, or over €1 billion, have been contracted.
Contracts have been signed with over 2 300 SMEs.
Currently, Bulgarian small and medium-sized enterprises can apply for free aid for energy efficiency projects with a total amount of €150 million.
The importance of small and medium-sized enterprises as the foundation of the Bulgarian economy is illustrated by the following facts:
99.8% of all enterprises in Bulgaria (306 367 SMEs);
76% of employment in enterprises (1 375 000 employees);
69% of investment in fixed tangible assets (FTA) (9.4 billion BGN);
67% of the turnover generated by enterprises (135 billion BGN);
62% of all FTA (62 billion BGN);
SMEs in Bulgaria differ significantly in their sectoral structure from those of the six closest EU countries in terms of population.
There are imbalances in the structure of SMEs that need to be addressed.
1%
2%
10%
8%
14%
23%
68%
51%
7%
16%
1 Sweden, Finland, Denmark, Austria, Hungary and Slovakia 2 The Eurostat technology intensity classification is used. In this part of the analysis, high-technology manufacturing refers to high- and medium-high-technology manufacturing and low-technology manufacturing refers to low- and medium-low-technology manufacturing.
The two figures illustrate the differences in the sectoral structure of SMEs in Bulgaria and the comparator countries.
One can see the predominant share of retail trade in Bulgaria at the expense of knowledge-intensive services (e.g. information technology and information services) and the halved share of high-tech industries, including pharmaceuticals, chemicals, machinery, automotive, computers, optics and electronics, etc.
Bulgaria has 3 times the number of enterprises in the retail sector.
Nearly 31% of Bulgarian SMEs are in this sector.
The average for the EU-27 is 17%, while for the EU-6 it is only 13%.
This is apparently due to the lack of industrial enterprises and the emergence of SMEs in the retail sector compensates for the lack of domestic production, further increasing imports of foreign industrial products.
Even with the current sectoral structure, the Bulgarian economy is growing.
But how durable can this growth be, and at what cost?
Should Bulgaria rely on the production of raw materials and commodities or should it focus on the production of investment and final consumption goods as well as knowledge-intensive services?
According to European Commission research, every 100 new jobs in industry creates between 60 and 200 new jobs in the rest of the economy.
MORE INSTRUCTIONS IN THE INDUSTRY
Bulgarian industry has a shortage of enterprises Bulgaria
's industry differs from the 6 EU countries in having fewer enterprises in the following sectors: manufacture of metal products (30% lower share), mechanical engineering (2 times lower share), manufacture of computers, optics and electronics (3 times lower share), automotive (2 times lower share).
We will support the creation of 4,200 new SMEs in the sectors listed above through targeted government policy support and EU grant funding.
MORE INFORMATION TECHNOLOGIES AND SERVICES
SMEs in knowledge-intensive services are in short supply.
There is a shortage of enterprises in the sectors: information technology (2 times smaller share), information services (50% smaller share).
We will support the creation of 7,100 new SMEs in the IT and services sector through targeted government policy support and EU grant funding.
MORE INSTRUCTIONS IN RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT (R&D)
Lagging share of SMEs in the R&D sector We see a
In our country there is a 3 times lower share in the number of enterprises in the R&D sector.
We will support the creation of 700 new SMEs in the research and development sector, through targeted government policy support and EU grant funding.
Other things being equal, just changing the structure to align with the shares in the EU-6 would lead to an additional 700 million euros of added value for the Bulgarian economy.
This is equivalent to a 7% increase in value added even if current low levels of labour productivity are maintained.
Stimulating innovation
Bulgaria's future economic growth depends on whether it will become a knowledge-based economy, where high value-added products and services are the main drivers of competitiveness.
The low level of R&D spending, especially in enterprises, as well as the almost non-existent links between research and the needs of the productive sector and the alarming demographic profile of society as a whole are the main reasons for Bulgaria's relatively weak innovation performance.
The economic crisis has exposed weaknesses in the economy, in particular the fact that the low-skilled manufacturing, services and construction sectors have been leading the way in generating employment and economic growth.
High-value products and services remain a minor part of exports, and the
country's skills and technological capabilities have not improved.
This trend can be seen in Bulgaria's exports and technological performance, as well as in the place it occupies in the competitiveness rankings compared to nearby countries.
The creation of an enabling business environment is a necessary but not
sufficient condition for fostering innovation.
The ability of entrepreneurs to experiment and to bear the risks involved depends to a large extent on the availability of financial and other support for setting up new businesses and for growing existing ones.
CREATING A STIMULATING ENVIRONMENT FOR INNOVATIoN by:
Improving innovation funding instruments by:
effective financing mechanisms (operational programmes, national instruments, venture capital);
engaging specialists to evaluate the grant co-financing;
simplifying and shortening the procedures for evaluating project proposals;
expanding support for early investments
and enabling the private sector to lead and control the entire venture capital financing process;
Stronger links between research and business a functional system for technology commercialisation;
strengthening the monitoring and evaluation process through a richer set of indicators that balance results and outputs;
introducing an impact assessment that measures the net positive change resulting from the implementation of the different instruments;
Improving the coordination of ministries and agencies.
FINALISATION OF THE CONSTRUCTIVE GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK THAT BACKGROUNDS AND SUPPORTS THE NATIONAL INNOVATION PROGRAMME
Establish an Executive Agency for Innovation within the Ministry of Economy to:
administer the design and implementation of instruments;
provide regular feedback to the NIB on what is working and what is not working in order to inform future policy decisions.
Establishment of an Advisory Board that:
focus on long-term strategic issues;
provide specific knowledge and guidance to the NIB.
Inward investment,
support for the creation of enterprises in industry,
information technology and services,
enterprises in R&D, the
stimulation of innovation and structural reforms in relation to innovation will be the focus of the new Operational Programme "Competitiveness" 2014-2020 and subject to support from the State budget.
The preparation of the new Operational Programme for Business 2014-2020 is at an advanced stage.
It is characterised by its smart specialisation, i.e. a focus on certain sectors with high added value and/or potential to support economic growth.
INVESTMENTS IN INFRASTRUCTURE
WE CONTINUE TO BUILD A BASIC INFRASTRUCTURE
Basic infrastructure is extremely important for the economy because it complements Bulgaria's favourable tax environment, financial stability, low operating costs and investment incentives.
Without such infrastructure, investment will be concentrated in the capital (a fact we have seen for 20 years), and this will condemn the regions and smaller towns in the country to high unemployment and low incomes.
In addition, public spending on infrastructure creates employment and boosts economic growth.
The construction of this infrastructure, mainly under Operational Programmes Transport and Regional Development, will continue with the same intensity in the next programming period.
WE WILL LAUNCH NATIONAL PROGRAMMES TO SUPPORT LOCAL INFRASTRUCTURE
In addition to the large-scale basic infrastructure, the rehabilitation of regional infrastructure is necessary and will start with two funds aimed at complementing the EU funds.
The Energy Efficiency Fund will finance municipalities and private individuals to implement energy efficiency projects.
Funds from the State budget will complement the funds protected under the Operational Programme "Regional Development".
The Home Heating Efficiency Fund will provide up to 50% grant funding for households to switch from heating with electricity or coal to heating with gas or biomass.
A large percentage of Bulgarian households still use the most expensive energy source to heat their homes - electricity.
Only 3% of households in Bulgaria are gasified, and according to the adopted strategic documents we should achieve a share of 30% by 2020.
A major obstacle for households is the cost of installation and repair work in the home /installation of radiators, boiler, pipework, patching and painting, etc./, which is a one-off cost of BGN 5 000 to BGN 7 000.
The Fund will grant up to 50% of the amount upon proof of a change in heating method.
This local infrastructure has the potential not only to increase GDP but also to
create a significant number of jobs and support SMEs in the construction sector, which have been most affected by the financial and economic crisis.
mONOPOLIT
REFORM IN REGULATORY AND CONTROL AUTHORITIES IN THE COUNTRY
The protests of early 2013 demonstrated that state regulators have successfully fulfilled their core functions.
Reform is needed to, on the one hand, give more powers to regulators and,
on the other, to introduce accountability for the officials involved.
The weak control by the State Energy Regulatory Commission ultimately led to unreasonably high electricity prices.
Changes to legislation affecting regulators will be enacted to include obligations for state oversight bodies to conduct annual audits of the activities of both regulators and companies that conduct regulated activities.
These state control bodies are the Court of Auditors, the State Financial Inspection Agency, the National Revenue Agency, the Commission for Consumer Protection, the Commission for Protection of Competition and the regulators themselves (for control of the companies they regulate).
mAximаl LIBERALIZATION OF THE MARKET AIMED AT CREATING COMPETITION
We will take real action to complete market liberalisation.
In the electricity market in Bulgaria it is necessary to complete the establishment of balancing groups, coordinators of balancing groups, settlement system, electricity exchange.
It will ensure equal and easy access of traders to household subscribers, thus removing the monopoly of electricity distribution companies.
tHe cRedITIoN oF the mSP
Guarantee funds and non-liquidity projects for the financing of the mSP
SMEs in Bulgaria need financing to boost their activity and orientate towards new production and products.
We do not and will not tolerate administrative interference in banking policy that could create turbulence and threaten its stability.
We assess as tangible the need for easier lending to businesses, which will lead to higher domestic investment and growth of the economy.
It can be achieved through two mechanisms, using financial engineering funds under OPC 2014-2020.
Guarantee Fund - the Guarantee Fund will guarantee loans to SMEs without the need for them to provide collateral themselves.
This product became operational under the Jeremie programme at the end of 2012.
Interest-free product - 50% of the loan will be granted with 0% interest and without the need for collateral from the SME.
The remaining 50% will be according to the bank's usual terms.
This product reduces the effective interest rate on the loan by half and SMEs provide collateral for only 50% of the loan.
The "Jeremie" product became operational in early 2013.
In the next programming period 2014-2020, OPC will allocate funds for the continuation of these two products.
Energy efficiency and local extraction of energy resources - a guarantee for business competitiveness and low household costs
The legacy in the energy sector has been particularly severe.
We have inherited long-term contracts, a nuclear power plant project that was launched without strategic investors and financing, privatised energy distribution companies over which the regulator exercises formal control.
The Belene project was terminated by a decision of the Council of Ministers and the National Assembly.
We tried to renegotiate long-term contracts, but we didn't have enough time.
Later we launched a reform in the State Energy Regulatory Commission to control everyone in the chain forming the final price of electricity.
We have laid the basis for a new energy policy with changes to the Energy Act to implement the EU's third liberalisation package.
The work on real, full liberalisation of the electricity market is already well advanced.
In GERB's mandate, two contracts were signed in the energy sector: a new contract with Gazprom without intermediaries.
For the first time in Bulgaria's history, the gas price is lower than the previous one and by more than 20%,
and a contract with Total, OMV and Repsol for oil and gas exploration in the deep Black Sea - the Khan Asparuh block.
BULGARIA IN THE RIGHT DIRECTION
REFORM IN THE MINISTRY OF ECONOMICS, ENEGETICS AND TOURISM
WE WILL DEVELOP A SEPARATE MINISTRY OF eNERGETICS
The mega-ministry of economy, energy and tourism will be split and a separate Ministry of Energy will be created.
As it stands, the ministry is inefficient.
The separation will not increase the administration or lead to additional costs for the budget, as the portfolios are largely autonomous - they have separate buildings, separate specialised directorates, their own administrations, etc.
eNERGY INDEPENDENCE
we will ENSURE the country's eNERGY INDEPENDENCE
Exploration in the Black Sea for oil and gas will ensure the country's own production and energy independence.
The participation of a wide range of world-renowned companies will lead to a high bonus for the state and will significantly increase the importance of the Bulgarian Black Sea for oil and gas production.
For the most promising block in the Black Sea - Silistar, we will launch an international procedure in which the world leaders in this activity will participate.
This will ensure that investments are made
and that the necessary measures are taken to protect the environment.
We will continue to stimulate onshore oil and gas exploration activities by conducting procedures for the unoccupied blocks in northern Bulgaria and discovering new blocks in the southern part of the country.
With domestic production, we plan to lower the gas price by 35%.
The extraction of domestic gas will generate huge revenues for the state budget.
If significant quantities of gas are produced, concession royalties will amount to hundreds of millions of euros per year, which
the budget will redistribute to the benefit of society and business.
Domestic gas production will also improve the country's trade balance.
We currently import over $1.2 billion worth of gas.
CONTINUING THE BUILDING OF ALL INTERCONNECTORS AND DEVELOPMENT OF MIGRANT GAS CONVEYORS IN THE COUNTRY
Interconnector Bulgaria - Romania will be commissioned in mid-2013.
Interconnector Bulgaria - Greece, its construction will start in the second half of 2013 and will be commissioned in an accelerated timeframe
Interconnector Bulgaria - Serbia, construction will start in 2014.
Interconnector Bulgaria - Turkey, This connection is the most important and will be implemented within the government mandate.
South Stream - we support the development of the South Stream project provided that Bulgaria does not finance the project with its own funds and does not provide state and/or corporate guarantees.
The new South Stream route will increase the security of supply for Bulgaria and increase transit revenues.
Bulgaria's priority remains the construction of the Nabucco-West gas pipeline.
This project will also improve security of supply.
It will diversify supplies and create competition to the only current supplier (Gazprom) by providing gas to Bulgaria from the Caspian region.
The development of the project will be in two phases.
In the first phase, the Bulgarian and Turkish gas transmission systems will be interconnected in order to enable the delivery of Caspian gas to Bulgaria before the expected date of commissioning of the pipeline - the end of 2018.
In the second phase, main gas pipelines will be constructed to settlements with a concentration of consumers (enterprises and domestic consumers) such as Sredna Gora.
WE WILL FUND PROJECTS FOR SUSTAINABLE ENERGY SOURCES (ES) AT PRECIOUS PRICES
Renewable energy is the most expensive and has the most significant impact on the final price of electricity.
In recent years, projects for thousands of megawatts have been implemented.
In mid-2011, we stopped signing new contracts, except for small installations up to 200kw, which are usually installed on the roofs of residential or commercial buildings.
We will significantly simplify the procedures for installing such installations to enable households and small and medium-sized enterprises to secure an additional source of income.
We will create a green energy fund, which will receive not only the price for green energy paid by consumers, but also the state's revenues from the sale of carbon dioxide allowances.
MORE TRANSPARENCY IN ENERGETICS
LEGAL CHANGES FOR CONSTANT CONTROL OF STATE REGULATORS AND CONTROL GOVERNMENTS OVER THE SITUATION OF SENIOR LEGISLATION
Change in the Energy Act for the election of the commissioners in the State Energy Regulatory Commission by a 2/3 majority of the MPs.
Nominations will be accepted from civil society organisations.
Statutory changes will place responsibilities on all supervisory authorities to exercise permanent control over all companies of public interest.
We are continuing the policy of open public procurement with a "lowest price" criterion, which will ensure transparency and equality
and, most importantly, will optimise the costs of all state-owned companies in the sector.
There have already been enough successes in this direction.
We managed to break a number of schemes to drain Maritsa East Mines.
Following a transparent, open procedure for bus transport for the company's employees, the company reduced the cost of this activity by BGN 20,000 per day.
CONTROL OF THE EFFECTIVENESS AND EFFICIENCY OF THE EIrGORrEdErS
The ideas of nationalisation are extremely harmful for the country.
Not only will they destroy the investment climate and lead to zero investment, but
they are likely to drive away those companies that are already here.
Buybacks of energy distribution companies are also not the answer to the problems of the last winter because they are associated with high costs for their acquisition by the state without a guarantee that the companies will be managed more efficiently and transparently.
Changes in legislation are needed to oblige the financial control bodies, the Court of Auditors and the State Financial Inspection Agency, to carry out annual checks on the efficiency and effectiveness of spending.
This will ensure that investments will be entirely to reduce network losses and cut costs.
LIBERALIZATION OF THE ELECTRONEGY AND GAS MARKET
WE CONTINUE THE LIBERALISATION OF THE ELECTRICITY AND GAS MARKET
And the best control frame will hardly guarantee the best quality at the best prices.
This is only a feasible task in a perfectly competitive market.
Real action will be taken to complete the liberalisation of the electricity market in Bulgaria by completing the establishment of balancing groups, balancing group coordinators, a settlement system and an electricity exchange.
It will ensure equal and easy access of electricity traders to household subscribers, thus removing the monopoly of electricity distribution companies.
Liberalisation will also be expressed in the possibility for every consumer to buy energy on a free market and at free prices, not from the mix of the State Energy Regulatory Commission.
eNERGY EFFECTIVENESS
SIGNIFICANT IMPROVEMENT OF ENERGY EFFECTIVENESS IN ENERGY PRODUCTION AND TRANSMISSION
Energy efficiency is not only about renovating buildings or machines with lower energy consumption.
Energy efficiency in generation and transmission increases generation efficiency and reduces transmission losses.
On the other hand, projects to improve the efficiency of the transmission network will reduce losses on the network, which in turn will be reflected in a lower cost of electricity transmission.
A large percentage of Bulgarian households still use the most expensive energy source to heat their homes - electricity.
Only 3% of households in Bulgaria are gasified, and according to the adopted strategic documents we should achieve a share of 30% by 2020.
A major obstacle for households is the cost of installation and repair work in the home /installation of radiators, boiler, pipework, patching and painting, etc./, which is a one-off cost of BGN 5 000 to BGN 7 000.
Household support will be oriented in this direction.
Promoting the eNerGy EffecTivity of the eNerGy P roPeRty
Energy efficiency in consumption means energy efficiency in enterprises and energy efficiency in buildings (residential, public, business, etc. buildings).
In both business and buildings, Bulgaria ranks last in the EU in energy efficiency.
Two operational programmes will provide hundreds of millions of euros for projects in this area - the Operational Programme "Regional Development" and the Operational Programme "Competitiveness".
Unlike electricity prices, where the margins for reduction are very limited, energy efficiency projects will reduce the energy bill by 50% or more.
We will create large-scale funds for energy efficiency and efficient household heating.
Nuclear eNerGetics
LIVELIHOOD IMPROVEMENT IN THE 5TH AND 6TH LOCKS OF THE COSLODUI NPP
The biggest priority of the Bulgarian nuclear power industry is the extension of the lifetime of Units 5 and 6.
At the beginning of 2012, a project was launched for a comprehensive survey, determination of the residual life and safety assessment of the equipment and facilities of Kozloduy NPP Units 5 and 6.
The period of performance of this contract is 24 me-months.
The life extension procedure for Units 5 and 6 will be completed on schedule.
7-I B LOC N A NPP "COSLODUI"
Unlike the Belene project, where Bulgaria's entire energy sector was at stake, Kozloduy's Unit 7 was launched by registering a project company to bear the risk of the investment itself.
Feasibility studies /technical and economic analysis, site selection and EIA/ are currently being prepared.
By the end of 2013, we will be ready for a "substantive" decision by the Council of Ministers on the construction of additional capacity.
TOURISM - A PRIOR INDUSTRY OF ECONOMY
For the period 2010-2012 the growth of foreign tourists reached 14%.
Tourism revenues increased by 8.8%.
National marketing and advertising for the country was activated for the first time,
the participation of Bulgarian tourism at international tourism fairs and exhibitions was ensured,
visits of journalists and film crews,
printing of advertising materials, etc.
Representatives specialised in tourism have been appointed in Moscow and Frankfurt.
Compulsory insurance - liability of the tour operator was introduced, which significantly increased the guarantees for Bulgarian consumers when using organized trips.
The tourism industry continues to benefit from a reduced rate for the accommodation service, which was aligned at 9% during this mandate.
This contributes to the formation of a competitive position of the national tourism product in terms of price.
We have oriented the Visa Policy to support the tourism industry by improving the organization and facilitating the issuance of visas from Russia, Ukraine, Moldova, Belarus, etc.
We have allowed Schengen visa holders to enter and stay on the territory of Bulgaria without needing a Bulgarian national visa.
With this we have facilitated and intensified business tourism.
Following extensive discussions and numerous public consultations, a new Tourism Act was drafted and adopted by the National Assembly (NA).
On this basis, we continue our policy to develop tourism as the foundation of the Bulgarian economy
and an important factor for growth and higher employment.
SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT OF TOURISM THROUGH ITS INTEGRATION IN ALL SECTOR POLICIES
There is a need to ensure the sustainable development of tourism
and its integration into other sectoral policies.
For this we will work for: the responsible use of the wealth of natural and anthropogenic tourism resources.
The construction of tourist attractions
and close interaction with the tourism industry and NGOs in tourism.
The extension of the summer tourist season.
The creation of prerequisites for the improvement of the sports infrastructure in our winter resorts
and the full use of the available resources for the specialized forms of tourism: cultural, balneo, spa and wellness; eco, rural; golf tourism and tourism on the Danube.
A SITUATIVE AUTHORITY FOR THE MANAGEMENT OF TOURISM AND A FUND FOR THE DEVELOPMENT AND SOCIALISATION OF THE NON-CULTURAL POPULATION FOR TOURISM PURPOSES
On the basis of the new Law on Tourism and the adoption of the 14 regulations attached to it, the creation of the overall regulatory base for the conditions and procedures for carrying out tourist activities in the country will be completed.
A normative document will be developed to regulate the status and management of national resorts.
A National Tourism Organization will be established, similar to the leading tourism destinations, to bring together the government and the tourism industry
to conduct national marketing and advertising
and improve statistical information, forecasts and analysis.
With a part of the revenues from the concession fees and from the concessions for underground resources we plan to create a fund to finance the real cultural heritage as a priority.
IMPROVING THE COMPETITIVENESS OF THE TOURIST SECTOR AND THE QUALITY OF THE TOURIST SERVICE
The key to increasing the competitiveness of the tourism sector will be the introduction of innovations and new technologies in the field of tourism.
In line with the EU's "Agenda for New Skills and Jobs", the curricula and programmes in training institutions for the tourism industry will be updated.
For the practical orientation of the training, the duration of the compulsory internships will be increased from one to two months.
Preserving the privileges of Bulgarian tourism in already established parks and establishing new parks
We will adopt a "Strategy for Sustainable Development of Tourism in the Republic of Bulgaria" to cover the period 20142020, as well as a national marketing strategy.
New technologies and innovations in marketing and advertising will be used extensively to implement the objectives of the marketing strategy.
Opportunities will be sought to increase state budget funding for marketing and advertising.
The funds from OP "Competitiveness" will also be effectively used for national and regional marketing and advertising in Russia, Germany, Romania, Sweden, Poland and Ukraine.
The programme will finance advertising campaigns on pan-European television
and pilot participation in international fairs and exhibitions, including for specialised types of tourism.
Together with the Sofia Municipality, a Bulgarian Tourist Office will be opened in Moscow in 2014.
In line with the pan-European visa policy, we will introduce additional facilities for tourists - citizens of third countries with whom we have a visa regime.
CREATING REGIONAL TOURIST PRODUCTS
We will complete the tourism zoning of the country in 2014.
The establishment of destination management organisations will allow the creation of regional tourism products
and the improvement of regional tourism marketing and promotion,
encouraging cooperation between central and local government and the tourism industry.
Completion of the country's highway ring is imminent
and the overall road infrastructure,
which will also facilitate access to tourist sites.
3. BUDGET AND FINANCE
a financially stable and prosperous country
The role of the state in society can be most objectively assessed by measuring how much of society's resources it redistributes, taking from the people and spending on their behalf and at their expense through the budget.
The concept of the low redistributive role of the state is one of the main principles adopted by PP "GERB" in terms of public finances, which we will defend in the future.
We are guided by the understanding that free, educated and informed people can best decide how to use the goods they produce.
The implementation of such a doctrine, however, faces many challenges, not only in terms of the natural desire of politicians to intervene in all social processes, but also in
terms of the historically layered perception of the role of the state.
Most of us have lived no small part of our lives under communism, when the state had a near 100% role in redistributing resources and ideas to the people
, and most of us have difficulty getting along without the state in modern conditions.
However, a greater role of the state through the budget inevitably means higher taxes
and less economic freedom for the individual.
GERB came to power with the clear awareness that the crisis in the global economy, which began at the end of 2008, although shortsightedly denied by the triple coalition, is one of the most serious economic crises so far in terms of scope and impact on people around the world.
From the very beginning of the first term of GERB's government, the focus of all political efforts had to shift from improvement to preservation of the basic functions of the state and its institutions.
Adequate and unpopular measures have been imposed to contain public spending, aiming at keeping the level of taxation low and ensuring the stability of the currency board.
They ensured the preservation of people's incomes during the first years of the crisis, an achievement that most European countries cannot boast of.
FOR FISCAL STABILITY
FISCAL STABILITY IS THE HEALTHY BASIS FOR ECONOMIC GROWTH We BELIEVE THAT WE WILL KEEP A BALANCED BUDGET IN ORDER TO AVOID DEBT TRUST WITH WHICH TO FUND NEXT GENERATIONS
Fiscal stability is not enough to ensure economic prosperity,
but in recent years we have received convincing examples that the accumulation of budget deficits, and over a long period of time, leads to upheavals in a country's economy,
that can disillusion and change the lives of entire generations, holding them hostage to past unwise decisions.
Bulgarian citizens should be particularly sensitive in this respect, because the lessons of 1996-1997 should not be easily attributed to the distant past - the authors of the transition policy of that period still have claims on state governance.
on tax policy
WE GUARANTEE THE LOWEST TAXES IN EUROPE
Bulgaria is the country with the lowest taxes in the entire European Union.
This achievement, of course, is not GERB's alone, but at the price of political exhaustion we did not allow populism and the desire for more spending to prevail through the budget.
MAINTAINING THE EXISTING DATA SYSTEM
Citizens' freedom is directly linked to the right to decide for themselves how to spend their income.
The main priority in tax policy is to shift the burden of taxation from labour and capital taxation to indirect and wealth taxes.
This priority is at the heart of boosting the competitiveness of EU Member States' economies and
is taken as the starting point for reforming the tax systems of all Member States.
For this reason, we from GERB will maintain the existing tax system, will not allow an increase in tax rates and social security contributions
and will continue the fight against the grey economy.
pROPoRtIoN oF pROPoRtIoNs oF fIsIcIaL PERSONnALs in the 10 oUtIoN oF tHe pRoPoRtIoN - T.N. "FLAT DANCE"
We will continue our targeted policy of maintaining the existing taxation model.
The proportional system of income taxation, better known as the "flat tax", is the fairest from GERD's point of view and although introduced before our government it has proved its viability.
DEVELOPMENT OF THE ECOLOGICAL DATA PROCESSING
Tax reforms along these lines will focus on introducing environmental taxes or taxes linked to CO2 emissions.
In this regard, we support the European Commission's proposal to amend the Energy Directive to increase the minimum excise duty rates for energy products and electricity
and to introduce a new excise duty structure consisting of two parts: taxation linked to the CO2 emissions of the energy product concerned and
the normal taxation of energy consumption based on the energy content of the energy product.
DEVELOPMENT OF THE TAX BASIS INSTEAD OF INCREASING TAX RATES WITH THE AIM OF ACHIEVING INSUSTAINABILITY IN THE GOVERNANCE AND REINFORCEMENT OF THE TAX SYSTEM
Phasing out the reduced tax rates on value added tax and excise duties, as well as
as well as the elimination of inefficient tax preferences for corporate taxes
and personal income taxes.
To this end, analyses of the effectiveness of tax preferences and reports on tax expenditures should be prepared.
DATA AMENDMENTS AND DATA EXCLUSION.
IMPROVING TAX COLLECTION AND STIMULATING DEBT PERFORMANCE
Tax reforms along these lines should be aimed at introducing effective measures to combat tax evasion and avoidance,
administrative burden on taxpayers by simplifying tax systems
and reducing the cost of compliance.
we will CONTINUE EFFORT TO IMPLEMENT REPEAL MECHANISM IN THE SECTORS WHERE WE ARE AT THE HIGHEST RISK OF DRS CHANGE - AGRICULTURE AND CONSTRUCTION
The European Commission has presented a proposal for an optional application of the reverse charge mechanism in relation to supplies of certain goods and services where there is a risk of fraud.
Adoption of the proposal will allow all Member States to apply the chargeback mechanism under the same conditions in those economic sectors and industries where it represents the most effective means of combating chain-type fraud, instead of adopting individual derogations from the VAT Directive.
RELEVANCE OF THE DOUBLE TAX COMPLIANCE WITH COUNTRIES (JURISDICTIONS) THAT ARE CONSIDERED TO BE TAX-FUGEES
Member States suffer potential and actual damage caused by jurisdictions that do not comply with minimum standards of good governance in the area of taxation, including jurisdictions considered as tax havens.
The damage consists in undermining Member States' tax systems
and threatening fair competition for businesses, which distorts the functioning of the internal market.
Addressing this problem requires the adoption of a set of criteria for identifying third countries that do not comply with the minimum requirements for good governance in the area of taxation and a
set of measures to be applied to third countries according to whether or not they meet these standards or have committed to comply with them.
Measures include the possibility of blacklisting non-compliant jurisdictions,
and renegotiating, suspending or concluding double tax treaties (DTTs).
RATIONALISATION OF EXISTING ACTIONS AND PROCESSES
There is still scope for reducing the tax burden in terms of the current regimes and procedures for declaring and paying taxes.
Reducing the effort and cost that businesses and citizens make to identify, declare and pay their public obligations is a kind of tax burden reduction and is most tangible for people.
Significant efforts have been made in recent years both to improve service to taxpayers,
and to safeguard the interests of the fiscus:
the single payment voucher for payment to the fiscus is introduced;
electronic access of persons to data from the NRA systems;
Introduce the possibility to pay with bank cards to the budget, free of charge for taxpayers;
the deadlines for declaring and paying social security contributions and taxes have been streamlined;
the introduction of a so-called "golden register" of honest taxpayers to whom an accelerated VAT refund applies;
There are many more good practices that can be implemented in this direction: the introduction of virtual POS for payment to the budget;
the introduction of the single payment system for payments to the Customs Agency,
and to the municipalities;
simplifying the regime for declaring social security contributions by merging existing declaration forms.
Enhance electronic exchange of information with revenue administrations and reduce the human factor to a minimum;
Enhance existing information systems to better control and strengthen collection.
ON THE QUALITY OF PUBLIC FINANCE
Alongside the undisputed achievements in public financial management in recent years,
stability ensured as a result of the economic and fiscal policies pursued, the
challenge of improving the quality of public spending comes to the fore.
Moreover, all preconditions for the implementation of successful measures in this direction have been created, namely:
a legal framework through the adopted in early 2013.
Law on Public Finances;
institutional environment as a result of identified objectives in terms of policies implemented at national level
and last but not least - clear priorities in terms of the financial framework for EU assistance for the period 20142020 set out in the National Development Programme "Bulgaria 2020".
Considering the different aspects for assessing the quality of public spending, which are the basis for monitoring the scope of possible quality improvement measures and actions within the European Union, we plan the following:
SUSTAINING PUBLIC SECTORS THAT CREATE ADDED VALUE AND SUSTAINABLE ECONOMIC GROWTH - EDUCATION, SCIENCE AND INNOVATION
A vision for redistribution aligned with sectoral priorities (sectors generating long-term economic growth).
Maintaining the relatively low redistribution ratio as a result of the liberal taxation policy on the one hand
and the long-term fiscal policy objective of achieving and maintaining a balanced budget on the other, we can
expect an increase in the volume of public spending by sector and policy as a result of measures to increase revenue collection and a positive effect of economic growth.
Linking the quality of public spending mainly to the effects of funding policies and programmes in sectors that create added value and sustainable economic growth,
the pace of redirecting spending to finance education policies should be accelerated,
science and innovation.
The other is the promotion of entrepreneurship
and measures to create sustainable employment.
Last but not least is investment in the underlying infrastructure.
A positive prerequisite for increasing the share of funds to these sectors is the expected increase in the share of EU funds and, respectively, operational programmes, which will operate in the next programming period 2014-2020, redirected entirely to these areas.
IMPROVING THE EFFECTIVENESS OF DEVELOPMENT IN DIVIDED SECTORS
Undoubtedly, the second objective of improving the quality of public spending is related to the efficiency of spending in the different sectors.
The envisaged measures in this direction are related to the implementation of structural reforms.
Efficiency reviews will be carried out on sectors that have so far been left out, such as defence, security and home affairs and agriculture, which, excluding the social sector, account for the highest relative share of public spending.
These reviews are expected to provide direction for reforms, resulting in the streamlining of public service delivery bodies in these sectors
and enabling the reallocation of resources to other sectors.
The volume and quality of public services provided in the sectors of health, education and science, social activities, etc. will be examined.
Funding models for these sectors will be analysed, and
necessarily linked to measures of the quality of services provided, based on information on performance measurement indicators.
ESTABLISHMENT OF PROGRAMMED AND RESULTS-BASED BUDGETING AS AN ESSENTIAL TOOL FOR PLANNING AND DEVELOPMENT OF PUBLIC RESOURCES
In the context of the intentions to achieve the objectives in the above areas, we are aware of the need to develop programme budgeting to generate reliable indicators to measure the results of policies and the effectiveness of funding models in different sectors
and to increase public dialogue and transparency in decision-making.
With the opportunities created by the Public Finance Act for the implementation of a programme budget format by all budget organisations, we have envisaged the following measures in this regard:
Building a classifier of key policies and programmes of ministries and departments and reliable indicators to measure them,
a system for the evaluation of budget programmes, to which the budget funding is linked.
for the money sector and banks
HAVING A VALUE BORDER TO ENTER THE EVRAZON
Again, voices are heard that the currency board is creating certain difficulties for the economy, suppressing the automatic stabilisers to counteract the negative consequences of the economic cycle.
We do not share such a view.
The currency board should be maintained until the country joins the euro area, thus ensuring security and predictability of the national currency
and avoiding any political risks.
Notwithstanding the above, the monetary board system has continued to function soundly and to contribute to overall macroeconomic stability.
The country's international foreign exchange reserves reached EUR 13.3 billion at the end of 2011, growing by 2.9% year-on-year.
After a seasonal decline in the first two months of 2012, foreign exchange reserves started to increase steadily and reached EUR 15 billion at the end of August, covering 192.3% of the monetary base.
By the end of July, the BNB's international reserves covered 6.6 months of imports of goods and non-factor services, and by the end of the first half of 2012, the coverage of short-term external debt by reserves improved to 140.2% compared to 133.8% at the end of the previous year.
AREA OF CIRCULATION FOR THE PRIVATE SECTOR
Banks have borne much of the brunt of the crisis, having to manage a significant portfolio of bad loans.
The struggle for larger market shares in corporate and household lending had a negative impact on banks' activities in the early years of the crisis and up to now.
Thanks to the conservative policy, the Bulgarian banking system managed to pass through the crisis almost unaffected, maintaining exceptionally good levels of capitalisation and stability.
legal regulation of the relationship between banks and technicians
There are reserves to improve the relationship in the area of bank lending.
Removing binding clauses at the level of the law for early repayment of loans, regardless of their type, especially when the bank increases the cost of the loan, is an important condition for increasing the level playing field in this type of commercial transactions.
4. EUROPEAN FUNDS
europe funds - investing in growth and sustainable development
The use of EU funds is an investment process within which our country has the opportunity to participate effectively, realising the added value and contribution of the EU Cohesion Policy to achieving strategic priorities for the development of the Republic of Bulgaria.
They are the engines of growth and modernisation and reform of the country.
Every single euro from the EU's SCF is a contribution to the development of the Republic of Bulgaria,
to economic and inclusive growth and to a better life for every Bulgarian citizen.
T h e S e r v i c e s o f T h e B u r o p e i n g F u n d s - M o t h o r o f GROWTH
We managed to use the opportunities provided by the European funds, such as:
we increased the percentage of funds agreed and disbursed under the seven operational programmes.
After the "restart" of the system from the beginning of 2010 until 11.03.2013, the seven operational programmes have contracted nearly 103% of the total budget of the programmes and have disbursed nearly 37%.
For comparison, as of 31.12.2009, the contracted funds were 23.05% and the disbursed funds 2.61%;
We managed to contract only for 2012 one third of the financial resources of the operational programmes;
to pay almost as much as in the previous five years combined;
to double the volume of funds reimbursed by the European Commission without losing a single euro in the seven operational programmes.
As of the end of 2012, we report 32 billion leva invested in the Bulgarian economy, infrastructure, education, agriculture, agriculture.
And here are not only the investments we have made in building better road and transport infrastructure, but also the
projects we have launched related to business and pro-innovative,
educational,
health spheres.
Important social reforms, such as deinstitutionalisation, have also taken place,
quality of education,
social services,
qualification of the workforce.
The objectives that lie ahead are: Objective 1: Stability and sustainability of the system, ensuring efficiency of investments.
Goal 2: Prepare the optimal mix of investments generating growth and sustainable development (focus, outcome, added value).
Objective 3: Reform, improve the quality of key policies and create the right environment to optimise investment.
STABILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY OF THE SYSTEM, GUARANTEEING THE EFFECTIVENESS OF INVESTMENTS
100% USE OF RESOURCES FROM THIS AND THE NEXT PROGRAMME PERIOD
In concrete actions, this looks like this: normal pace of payments and implementation of the agreed investments from the current programming period
Ensuring the stability of the system and continuation of the process at the currently set pace,
preserving the administrative capacity and accumulated expertise
and ensuring the smooth functioning of the interaction between all units in the system.
Constructive dialogue with the EC and all stakeholders
Ensure a 65% payment rate by the end of the year.
Completion of all actions taken to prevent the loss of funds - meeting the estimates set out in LOTHAR.
Ensuring the stability of the European Union (EU) funds management system is key.
Announcement of all schemes set out in the Indicative Annual Work Programmes of Operational Programmes by the end of the year without deviation from the approved indicative deadlines.
Continue the process of freeing the system from unnecessary administrative burdens.
The recent changes we made in the Decree No 55 of the Council of Ministers are important both for the business and
for accelerating the implementation and payment of two of the operational programmes - OP "Competitiveness" and OP "Human Resources Development" - hence the investments of the business and its contribution to the economy.
Continuing to work with international financial institutions and the good interaction established with them.
Their support and expertise was and is important both now and in the future.
Establishing conditions for the optimal use of the resources during the current programme period
CONTINUATION OF CONTRACTS WITH THE EC FOR THE CURRENT PROGRAMME PERIOD AND TIMING OF THE PARTNERSHIP AGREEMENT AND NEW OPERATIONAL PROGRAMMES
The currently planned investments are a serious contribution to priorities and areas, the development of which is crucial to achieve economic and social development at the pace and with the impact our country needs.
A well-functioning system of managing these funds with conditions for flexibility, results and efficiency ensures this.
The mechanism has been triggered, it remains to continue working at maximum speed and to develop and improve so as to maximise the impact of every euro and every Bulgarian lev.
EU funds are an investment in our future and in the future of Europe.
It depends on how reasonable we are to get the maximum benefit for every citizen.
This means: continuation of the actions already undertaken on the preparation of the Partnership Contract and all its documents - analyses, strategy, thematic objectives.
Keeping the commitments made in the first meetings with the EC
and securing national priorities by proposing a good mix of workable measures in each of the support areas.
Implementation of the commitments of each of the Entitlements under the country's pre-conditions, allowing an efficient use of EU funds.
Implementing all reforms - regulatory, policy and structural - that will maximise the impact of investments.
Presentation of the Partnership Contract and all Operational Programmes by September 2013 at the latest to allow the first procedures to start in the first quarter of 2014.
Bulgaria cannot and should not afford a delay like the one of the current programming period.
EU funds are important for the economic and social development of our country and the sooner the process of their use starts, the sooner we will benefit from the development incentives they bring.
100% USE OF RESOURCES FROM THE CURRENT AND THE NEXT PROGRAMME PERIOD
STABILITY AND EFFECTIVENESS OF MANAGEMENT AND CONTROL SYSTEMS
Bulgaria has three important objectives in this area: first, to maintain the effective functioning of the system of the current programming period at the same low error rates (below the materiality threshold of 2%), thus ensuring not only the necessary confidence of the EC, the European institutions
and the Bulgarian citizens, but also
but also to ensure that the funds are spent efficiently in accordance with the applicable European and national rules.
Second, to ensure both the necessary continuity in the next programming period and to
ensure that the new requirements are met with the establishment of an accreditation body.
Thirdly, in meeting the above two objectives, to avoid cumbersome system of over-control, complex procedures and administrative burden, but to
provide the necessary balance and flexibility to allow accessibility and ease of use of funds, consistent with the normal logic of economic and social processes and development, as well as the needs of the environment and beneficiaries.
This means continuing the efforts and work undertaken in the area of reducing the administrative burden
and adapting the process to the actual needs of the beneficiaries.
And last but not least - ensuring the predictability of the environment and processes through the mechanisms of planning, control, interaction and balance, analysis and evaluation of performance.
CODIfIcIATIon OF THE LAW AND CREATIon OF A FULL NORMATIve FRAMEWORK
In the last year, a very important step was taken to ensure the sustainability and the impact of EU funds in Bulgaria - work started on the creation of the EU Funds Management Act.
CREATING THE CONDITIONS FOR FAST AND FLEXIBLE INVESTMENT
The law regulates important reforms for the process to function optimally:
a unified regulatory framework
and overcoming the previous practice, which significantly hampered the process of regulating relations in the sphere through a multitude of by-laws;
ensuring the integrity of the process and policy in this area with clearly defined and defined responsibilities, functions and interaction between the various units, bodies and institutions in this area;
Create the conditions for fast and affordable investments through flexibility and suitability of the administration and structures for a quick and result-oriented response to the needs being addressed and the beneficiaries.
Separation as stand-alone executive agencies that will allow them the necessary autonomy, flexibility and speed;
Synergy of policies financed with these funds;
Simplification and simplification of funding and control in relation to the size of the investment - introduction of a lighter approach to the evaluation and implementation of projects up to 100 000 BGN;
Introduction of integrated projects that allow the investment to be implemented in the best possible way by combining funding from different thematic sectors and funds;
Improving all stages of the process - application, evaluation, contracting, assessment, reporting based on lessons learned during the current programming period and responding to beneficiaries' needs;
Making the long-sought change to the beneficiary appeals process by changing the aid delivery model.
Moving from a contract-based model to signing a delivery order.
This will enable a large part of the case study resolution to be taken forward by the Managing Authorities before proceeding to the next stage.
OPENNESS, SPEED AND FLEXIBILITY THROUGH ELECTRONIZED PROCESSES
Electronic project application and reporting/implementation has started in the last year and a half, and
progress should continue, covering all operational programmes and electronicising as many processes as possible.
Further development of the functionalities of the ISUN system is an important step towards improving, speeding up and simplifying the process and control.
Continuation of the practice introduced in 2010 with the public module of the system as one of the tools for transparency of the system
and control by civil society, awareness of the process as a whole.
An open, transparent process of preparation and implementation of investments
A prerequisite for the impact of the funds is the creation of an environment and incentives for the full and active participation of all groups relevant to the process both in the preparation of specific measures through representation and participation in the working groups for programming, as well as
in the process of developing the Partnership Contract, in the monitoring committees and in all other mechanisms that exist at the moment - discussions, working groups, deliberations.
The aim is to continue to implement these mechanisms, making them more effective both through the quality of the information we provide and in terms of our communication with them.
INfORmATION AND comMUNICATION OF RESULTS ACHIEVED AND FUNDING OPPORTUNITIES
Over the last year and a half, 28 regional information centres have been established and are acting as information and communication points in all regional cities of the country.
Their work needs to continue both to provide sufficient information about opportunities and to
implement the necessary feedback.
The process of preparation of the new Communication Strategy has also started, involving all organisations in the field.
It needs to continue in order to produce a product that not only meets requirements, but works and communicates the message to all citizens.
PREPARATION FOR THE OPTIMAL ACCOUNTING OF INVESTMENTS GENERATING GROWTH AND SUSTAINABILITY
In the next 10 years, the EU funds will play a key role in the country's modernization
It is clear from the priorities in all sectoral policies that EU funds will play a key role in achieving the objectives of the EU's Europe 2020 Strategy over the next 10 years.
To achieve them we will invest in: job creation
through inclusion
and education policies;
Research and innovation-friendly business environment;
Increasing access to and quality of education
and linking it to labour market needs;
The competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises;
Promoting social inclusion and combating poverty;
Shifting to a low carbon economy - in environmental care, investment, reducing air pollution, etc.;
Modern infrastructure generating economic growth
and jobs;
Broadband access in e-government, in e-services at all levels: in municipalities, in the judiciary, in education, in healthcare, in administration at all levels.
Reforming and improving the capacity and performance of the administration, including the participation of civil society in the process;
Increasing the effectiveness of the whole cycle of public policies for preparation, implementation, impact assessment.
ECONOMIC AND SOCIAL SUSTAINABILITY AND GROWTH THROUGH QUALITY ASSURANCE AND STRATEGY FOR INVESTMENT
Completing the preparation of the Partnership Treaty and the Europe 2020 Strategy to ensure the integrity and completeness of the process and the coherence of investments in different areas.
Bulgaria is part of the whole, achieving our goals means contributing to Europe's objectives and its drive for sustainable development based on the priorities of the strategy.
There is no room for short-sightedness and abstraction, but for pragmatic and smart decisions that lead to results - clear, concrete, measurable.
We have started the process on time, the Partnership Contract and its accompanying documents are largely in place.
It is yet to be successfully completed and presented.
Measures targeted at labour and business needs
Putting economic and social growth and results at the centre is inevitably linked to preparing measures that reflect the real needs of Bulgarian enterprises, economic and sectoral trends, the market and labour needs.
This means that the focus is more than ever on strengthening and improving the quality of the relationship with them
and orienting investments in this direction.
Imposing resource-efficient and innovative solutions oriented towards achieving concrete, measurable and tangible results with added value in the development of the economy and in each individual area of support.
STRATEGIC PRIORITISATION AND FOCUSING OF INVESTMENTS
We aim at a balanced development of the different economic sectors by focusing our support on innovation,
applied research,
resource and energy efficiency,
entrepreneurship and the development of business
and innovative infrastructure.
In a way aimed at achieving economic development through incentives that trigger an increase in competitiveness, production, employment, the added value of all this will positively affect the quality of life and our economy.
EU funds will stimulate the development of those that will generate more growth and economic sustainability.
And with measures in other sectors we will complement increasing employment, reducing unemployment,
improving skills
and the quality of education.
SYNERGY (IMPLEMENTATION BETWEEN DIVIDED INVESTMENTS)
Good combination, complementarity and intertwining of investments allows for integrity and maximisation of the impact of measures.
This is a process that started during the preparation of the Partnership Contract and continues in the individual operational programmes.
Ensuring good coordination, communication and interaction between the different institutions is therefore key,
Transparency
and participation of all stakeholders.
It is important to clarify the complementarity with other measures financed by other national and European programmes and instruments, so that there is no waste of resources.
The aim is to provide integrated solutions and complementary interventions allowing for integrated impact and sustainability of investments.
REfORMs, IMPROVING THE QUALITY OF CLIvITIoNs AND ESTABLISHING A FACILITATIoN FOR THE OPTIMIZATION OF INVESTMENTS
Ex-anteconditionalities as a mechanism to foster the regulatory and institutional environment
This is the set of improvements in the system and in the development sectors that will allow our country not only to benefit from EU funds, but also
to realign its work to a regime that ensures greater efficiency of processes and policies, regulatory framework and structural prerequisites.
Improvements will address the increased need for better coordination and coherence of action and responsibility at all levels.
The development of separate strategy documents will provide clarity on where investments are being targeted to be most effective.
Better integration of instruments and investments (integrated urban development plans, integrated projects with activities funded under different programmes allowing maximisation of impact (mix of policy instruments - such as research and development, innovation and transport, ecology and business development).
The deadlines for their implementation are different, one part of them has to be completed by the end of 2013. Others by a slightly later date.
More importantly, depending on the conditions our country will receive EU funds or not and this is not a punitive measure but
an opportunity to implement reforms that change the environment and create conditions for sustainable growth.
A key role will also be played by the Smart Specialisation Strategy, which will outline our country's policy and development over the next few years in the field of economy, innovation, applied research, entrepreneurship and possible public instruments for impact at national and regional level,
including a new model of process management and strengthening the science-business link,
enabling the desired sustainable and resource-efficient development and growth.
The changes in the Higher Education Act are in this direction.
Implementation of the Non-Objective ReForMs with the aim of Ensuring a Sustainable Environment for Investments
With the measures that will be set out in the Operational Programme "Good Governance" , our country will have the opportunity to invest in the efficiency of the administration not only through e-government, but
also in terms of the quality of the policies it creates and implements.
Introducing the tools of analysis, impact assessment and methods to enable informed and most rational decision making.
We will support the development of the capacity of the civil sector to participate in the process
and introduce new methods to increase transparency - from open data
to streamlining public consultations.
We will improve the quality of local administration not only through training and skills development, but also
by improving, streamlining and optimising administrative structures.
mAximIzIzIon of the effecT of investImIts
The most important thing today, when we are building, planning and developing the priorities, the set of investments and the measures we will finance with EU cohesion policy funds, is to build on what has already been achieved, but in a way that maximises its impact and the quality of the investments.
This means that if today we have built 200 km of motorways, tomorrow we must build more, but with even higher quality and efficiency.
If to date we have supported nearly 2000 Bulgarian enterprises, in the next programming period we should not only increase their number, but also make sure that
investments in them lead to their competitive development and participation in European markets.
To increase the share of public spending on innovation, science, research and technological development,
but in a way that leads to the kind of development that, putting us in the context of other countries, will make us truly comparable and competitive.
If today with EU funds we have secured employment for nearly 20 000 people, in the next programming period we will not only increase their share, but
we will also further develop their qualifications and key competences so that they meet both the labour market and the business environment, both at national, European and global level.
This means to support and develop the level of primary, secondary and higher education, which will allow young people in Bulgaria to fully realise their potential on the national and European labour market
and to contribute with their knowledge and competences to the sustainable growth of our economy.
5. EDUCATION, SCIENCE, YOUTH POLICY
COMPETITIVE DEVELOPMENT AND EFFECTIVE SCIENTIFIC RESEARCH FOR ECONOMIC GROWTH AND HIGHER EDUCATION
An investment in education is an investment in the future of a nation because it is
through education that a society formulates its goals, organizes its means and resources to get into shape and move in the direction it desires.
Education and training are more important than ever.
They should provide chances for a successful start, for development and coping with life, for a personal professional career and good prospects.
The goal is for Bulgaria's children and young people to be highly educated and competitive with their European peers, and
this is the most important prerequisite for the development of a high added value economy.
Research, technological development and the ability to translate the results of research into economic and social benefits are also key factors for a country's competitiveness, prosperity and sustainable growth.
The main goal of our strategy for the development of science is the transformation of Bulgaria in the medium term into a country where knowledge and innovation are the engine of the economy.
WE CONTINUE INVESTMENTS AND REFROMMENTS IN EDUCATION TO GUARANTEE PRACTICALITY AND APPLICABILITY OF KNOWLEDGE, SOCIALISATION, WORKFORCE MANAGEMENT AND REALISATION FOR ALL YOUNG PEOPLE.
We have chosen to invest in education from an early age, even in the difficult years of global financial and economic crisis
We have developed the first completely new Pre-School and School Education Act since 1991, which guarantees an educational environment for development and for the formation of life skills and career success.
A clear expression of our attitude towards education and science is the decision Bulgaria to have an independent Operational Programme "Science and Education for Smart Growth 2014 - 2020".
We want Bulgarian education to meet the highest modern quality requirements.
Our children do not deserve to continue to learn in a 1990s environment and accumulate complex and entirely theoretical knowledge.
Our children deserve to purposefully develop the key 21st century skills that will make them successful citizens.
This is the change we had the political will to start, and we want to finish with your trust.
HIGHER GRATITUDE FOR BETTER LIVES OF PEOPLE AND HIGHER AND SUSTAINABLE ECONOMIC GROWTH
WE WILL CONTINUE TO DEVELOP CONSISTENT SCHOOL EDUCATION AND HIGH QUALITY CARE IN THE CHILDREN'S CITY AS A BASIS FOR HIGHER RESULTS IN SCHOOL AND UNIVERSITY
Access to high quality early childhood education and care is a key pillar of responsible public policy that aims to improve educational outcomes,
opportunities to create and find employment in later life and hence reduce poverty.
That is why we continue to develop pre-school education, to prepare young children for life, ensuring them conditions in which to discover and develop their talents and creative abilities.
The early diagnosis of children with learning difficulties in order to support teachers more effectively in addressing reading and writing difficulties is one of the challenges we take on.
INTRODUCTION OF NEW STUDY PROGRAMMES TO PROVIDE OUR CHILDREN WITH PRACTICAL SKILLS NOT NEEDED IN REAL LIFE, NOT JUST ECLICIPAL KNOWLEDGE
The real improvement of literacy requires recognition of the problem and political will and commitment, which
only we from GERB dared to show.
We clearly disassociated ourselves from explanations that international studies are biased or manipulated because they do not measure what we teach children.
For the first time, we have made detailed analyses of the results of international studies, national external assessments and state matriculation exams, for which until 2009.
Bulgaria has spent millions without taking measures to improve the results of Bulgarian students.
In just less than two years, we have updated all curricula from first to twelfth grade,
focusing on the practical focus of the curriculum.
External and in-school assessments now contain tasks with the format of the international literacy tests PISA and PIRLS.
We have introduced a commitment to project-based learning and assessment.
We have taken concrete steps to improve quality at the individual student and classroom level, at the school level and at the regional level.
We make it a priority to focus resources on developing skills such as: team problem solving, critical and innovative thinking, creativity, analysis and decision making, communication using the internet and social media.
And it also means: putting school preparation in terms of the development of key competences by putting the new curricula into practice.
Comprehensive school-wide implementation of project-based learning and assessment.
Implementation of interactive learning methods in schools.
Special focus on motivation for reading and writing.
INTERACTIVE AND ELECTRONIC STUDYBOOKS
The new curricula will also require new textbooks, which must be interactive and offered in electronic format.
To ensure good, quality textbooks, we are committed to easing the licensing regime and reducing restrictions on free publishing.
MORE CONSULTATIONS AND ADDITIONAL INSTRUCTIONS FOR EACH STUDENT'S RESUME
Differentiated care according to individual learning needs, as well as
effective counselling by teachers, are important conditions for the success of every child and student.
A NEW CHANCE TO LEARN AND WORK FOR ADULTS THROUGH THE PROGRAMMES FOR PROGRAMMING
As part of our literacy strategy, we developed the first adult literacy programme.
In 2012, 7,124 adults were trained with funds from the Human Resources Development Operational Programme.
Thus providing a "second chance" to these people.
Continue training for all who wish by:
Creating, funding, regulating and supporting a diversity of adult learning opportunities.
Provide opportunities for volunteers to acquire teaching skills and be involved in programmes aimed at inclusion and education of adults with reading difficulties.
ИНдИВИдУАЛеН ПОдхОд И ПОдКРеПА зА УСПешНА РеАЛИзАЦИЯ
CONTINUED FUNDING OF FREE FUNCTIONS AND INTErSiOnS FOR THE PURPOSE OF ENHANCING FREE TIME AND IMPROVING MOTIVATION FOR STUDENTS, TEACHERS AND PARENTS alike
We accept the difference between children as a value and believe that it is the educational environment that should adapt to the diversity of children's needs.
Every child has the right to a quality education.
This right can only be realised through an education that unites and supports every child to reach their potential.
In 3 and a half years we have provided 264 500 000 BGN for free kindergartens, 154 500 000 BGN from the state budget.
We have also secured BGN 9 million in European funding for career guidance, with a total of 76 796 students enrolled in the programme as of January 2013.
We created a national programme to equip playrooms in schools.
We provided funds for interest-based activities, which were attended by nearly 400 000 of the country's students.
With funds from the state budget, we trained 4231 principals, 715 teachers, 900 psychologists and pedagogical advisors and 60 experts to work in an intercultural environment,
to work with children and students with special educational needs,
to form competencies for the assessment of students, to
prevent school violence and aggression, and
for interactive teaching methods.
Thanks to these measures, the number of school dropouts has almost halved in the last 4 years - from 8 820 to 4 761.
Over the last 3 years, the early school leaving rate in Bulgaria has been lower than the EU average.
In the coming years the priorities are: to continue to increase the number of free activities;
To continue to provide resources and opportunities for interest-based activities to discover the talents of every child and student;
To provide methodological support and pedagogical tools to create a classroom that takes into account the needs and interests of all children
and involves parents, especially of minority children, in the learning process;
To develop career guidance through collaborative work between teachers and careers advisers
and through strong partnerships with parents and the community;
To continue to work for the gradual elimination of ethnic segregation and discriminatory practices on the basis of disability in pre-school and school education;
Introduce combined and distance learning;
To build successful models for improving the quality of education in small settlements and in merged classes.
NEW GROUPS, NEW CHILDHOODS AND NEW FORMS OF ORGANISATION FOR UNIVERSAL ACCESS TO EARLY EDUCATION
Early inclusion of children in the education system through play and stimulating their development reduces the risk of early school leaving
and increases equity among children.
That is why in 2010 we introduced a requirement for children over the age of 5 to attend kindergarten.
Thus, we created a state commitment to support families and children by providing free school supplies,
some meals, and
for the first time, free transportation for preschoolers, including 6-year-olds.
A priority in the coming years will be to expand coverage and access to pre-school education and care through more and more flexible education and care services for children in the period leading up to their first grade entry.
MORE PSYCHOLOGISTS, TEACHER SUPPORTERS AND RESOURCE TEACHERS AIMED AT DEVELOPMENT AND DEVELOPMENT IN CHILDREN'S GRADES AND SCHOOLS
We share the principle that inclusive education is an integral part of the right to education, and
that means more and tailored professionals to support children, teachers and parents.
That is why we have increased the resources in schools and kindergartens for children with special educational needs.
We increased by more than 1/3 the number of psychologists and pedagogical counselors in schools, appointed additional resource teachers and equipped resource rooms.
We created and funded a National Mobile Psychological Support Group.
For the next 4 years, our efforts are focused on: increasing the number of pedagogical advisors, psychologists, resource teachers and teacher's assistants;
introducing a second teacher in the classroom;
creating an accessible architectural environment;
developing teachers' skills to work with children and students with special educational needs and children at risk; introducing a
team approach to working with the child and student in every kindergarten and school;
rewarding kindergartens, schools and municipalities that implement inclusive
GUARANTEEING THE PARTICIPATION AND SUPPORT OF PARENTS, LOCAL AUTHORITIES AND CIVIL SOCIETIES FOR MORE TRANSPARENCY AND BETTER QUALITY
It is our understanding that a community council should be established within each nursery and school as a collective body for strategic management and citizen scrutiny, representative of parents and with direct local authority involvement.
Public councils should be democratically formed, should
be accountable for good governance
and should ensure transparency and quality of the main internal processes in the kindergarten and the school.
INDEPENDENT EXTERNAL EVALUATION OF THE IMAGE
External inspections on the performance and rational use of resources in education are a priority for our management,
as well as on what people who use public services need, how they get them and what the practical results are.
An important step towards ensuring the quality of education is to link funding mechanisms to educational outcomes.
PRESTIGE OF THE TEACHING PROFESSION
INVESTING IN TEACHERS TO BE MOTIVATED, PREPARED AND IMPROVED
The effectiveness of the education system is unattainable without motivated and qualified teachers.
According to PISA data, the only financial component that has a direct positive relationship with student outcomes is teacher pay.
In most countries, higher teacher pay also means higher qualifications.
That is why in 2009 we introduced a career development system, increased teachers' pay by 20%,
invested in qualification, and in addition to the state budget we secured over 70 million leva of European money for professional development.
Continued investment in teachers is essential for us in the coming years as well:
improving the career development system
and providing a "fast track" for young teachers to grow;
a national programme to attract and further support young teachers, including by introducing trainee teacher status;
career development of all pedagogical specialists in kindergartens and schools;
introducing a compulsory qualification that is aimed at raising student achievement;
support for teachers working with children with special educational needs, vulnerable children and gifted children.
ACTIVE PARTNERSHIP WITH THE BUSINESS IN DEVELOPING THE EDUCATION POLICY
Relating the professions and skills on offer to the needs of the economy
To this end, we focus our efforts on: curricula in school and higher education,разработени with business;
introducing practice-oriented training and conducting practical training in a real work environment;
introducing the dual system of vocational education;
funding for protected professions;
building new knowledge centres with specific branches, in which new developments in the branch directly related to the profession studied are studied;
Improvement and legal regulation of the already established quality assurance system for vocational education and training;
Stimulating professional networking between schools (secondary and tertiary) and business for the exchange of scientific information,
participation of leading industry professionals in the learning process,
assessment of learning outcomes, etc.;
introducing a system for credit accumulation and transfer in vocational education
and linking it to the credit accumulation system in higher education.
IMPROVEMENT OF SKILLS IN THE FIELD OF PREPARATION, INFROMATION TECHNOLOGIES AND ACTIVE CIVIC POLICY
INTRODUCTION OF PREPARENT TRAINING FOR ALL CHILDREN, STUDENTS AND TEACHERS
In just three years, the GoB has managed to introduce entrepreneurship in 80% of the primary schools in 80 schools from 5th to 7th grade,
profile "Entrepreneurship and Business" in the high school stage.
The development of an entrepreneurial mindset in children and young people, the application of educational and practical activities for the formation of business skills, leadership and strategies for success continues to be a top priority in the coming years.
We also envisage a national funding programme for student and student-led learning companies.
MORE CITIZENSHIP IN SCHOOLS AND UNIVERSITIES TO BE ACTIVE CITIZENS
In the last 2 academic years, nearly 1500 civic education groups have been opened in schools.
We continue to work towards: meaningful participation of students in the life of the school and university;
providing opportunities to learn more about current issues on the public agenda;
developing self-assessment and evaluation tools that cover social and civic competencies.
EVERY CLASSROOM WITH AN INTEGRATIVE TREATMENT, COMPUTING THE LEARNING IN ALL PREDMETES
Information and communication technologies provide a variety of methods and tools that open up new possibilities in the classroom.
As of 2013, 100% of state and municipal schools are connected to high-speed internet, with access paid for by the state budget.
Between 2009 and 2013, more than 130 of them were equipped with wireless WiFi infrastructure.
The budget also provides the software for all schools, universities, teachers and lecturers.
Since 2012, a 4-year initiative has been launched to completely replace desktop computers with modern computer terminal solutions, and in 2012 alone we have nearly 10,000 new terminals in schools.
Our specific projects are: continuing the introduction and upgrading of ICT in kindergartens and schools, including by providing an interactive whiteboard for each classroom;
use of ICT from first grade;
the use of information and communication technologies in the overall learning process, including adult education;
providing teachers with the necessary equipment;
Enhancing teachers' digital skills through targeted funding for training programmes;
promoting innovation in schools through a national programme;
computerisation of administration, management and support of the educational process in schools and universities;
Piloting the use of tablets in secondary school.
We will also pay special attention to increasing the knowledge of both children and young people and adults about safer and more useful use of the World Wide Web.
SPORT AS ACTIVE HEALTH
MORE SPORT IN SCHOOL FOR MORE HEALTH AND LIFE WITHOUT AGRESSION
An important part of our program was to create conditions for everyday care for personal and family health through sport.
A clear expression of this policy is the conditions created to support extracurricular sports activities in schools through the more than 3,000 sports groups established,
as well as the additional BGN 11 million earmarked for the construction of multifunctional sports halls in Bulgarian schools
Our goals are: optimal conditions and opportunities for children, students and young people of different age groups to participate in sport;
Continuing the renovation of gyms and swimming pools in kindergartens and schools;
expanding the range of organised forms of sport in school sports sections and clubs;
the establishment of a system for the management of physical education for children deprived of parental care and for children, pupils and young people with permanent disabilities;
expanding forms of sport and competitive activity during the holiday period.
IMPROVING THE QUALITY AND EFFECTIVENESS OF HIGHER EDUCATION
increased participation of workers and workers' organisations and recognised international experts in the evaluation of higher education and technology programmes
The national Europe 2020 target of at least 36% of 30-34 year olds having completed tertiary education by 2020 has necessitated several important steps, such as:
the funding of universities in 2011 was supplemented by rewards for good performance.
These incentives were followed by the collection of information on the educational outcomes and labour market realisation of the graduates, carried out in 2010 and 2011 as part of the initiative to build a Rating System of Higher Education Institutions in Bulgaria.
In the second half of 2011, ENQA and EQAR member agencies were given the opportunity to carry out programme evaluation in Bulgaria.
The scale for accreditation assessments was also changed, improving the possibility to differentiate more clearly the results of higher education institutions.
However, the performance of higher education in terms of its impact on growth and job creation is not at the desired level.
This requires our commitment to a complete rethinking of the higher education system in Bulgaria through a new law on higher education.
We also foresee: simplification of the assessment procedures by merging the activities of institutional and programme accreditation;
improvement of the credibility and rigour of the assessment carried out by the NAEA through increased participation of employers and employers' organisations and recognised international experts;
expansion of the scope of the data collected by the rating system in order to provide a more comprehensive picture of the educational outcomes
and labour market realisation of graduates.
FOCUSING THE LEARNING PROCESS ON THE STUDENTS' FEATURES AND INTERESTS AND THEIR REALISATION IN THE LABOUR MARKET
This means both increasing the share of practical activities in the educational process, as well as
stimulating the development of foreign language curricula with a current market orientation
and improving the conditions for mobility of students, postgraduates and PhD students within the country.
The development and implementation of models for linking funding to learning outcomes,
student performance, the
needs of the economy
and the application of EU principles for innovative doctoral training are also among the main challenges we are setting ourselves.
STUDENTS WITH OUTSTANDING ACADEMIC ACHIEVEMENTS, WITH LOW DEDUCTIONS, AND FROM UNDERSTANDING ETHNIC GROUPS AND THEIR INCLUSION IN FIELDS AND PROGRAMMES PRIOR TO THE ECONOMY AND THE COUNTRY
In order to increase participation in higher education, we have negotiated and given an additional 150 million euro in European scholarships to students in the past term.
We have launched student lending and now all students can get a loan at 7% interest with no collateral or fee requirements.
Over the next 4 years, we continue to work to: promote access to education for students from under-represented groups (young people with low financial means or disabilities, from vulnerable ethnic groups, single parents, etc.);
Additional support for academically excellent and low-income students in selected priority areas and programmes;
supporting and expanding student lending activities;
offering different learning pathways that allow learning to be successfully combined with work or family commitments;
the recognition in higher education of knowledge and skills acquired prior to entry - 'accreditation of prior learning' and 'accreditation of prior learning through professional (practical) experience'.
BUILDING A SYSTEM FOR VALIDATING NON-FORMAL AND INFORMAL LEARNING
In 2013, the establishment of a validation system for non-formal and informal learning continued
and encourage its use by all age groups over 16, including in higher education.
We will also work to: improve learning opportunities in the context of active ageing, including through voluntary work and the promotion of innovative forms of intergenerational learning
and initiatives to harness the competences of older people for the benefit of society as a whole;
meet the learning needs of people with disabilities and those in specific situations of exclusion from learning
and provide appropriate guidance support for them.
THE DEVELOPMENT OF LEARNING THROUGH LIFE
e-Learning and distance learning for learning for learning
In order to motivate Bulgarian citizens to participate in various forms of lifelong learning, we are committed to:
intensify research
and promote foresight analysis in the field of education and lifelong learning;
provide project funding for e-education and distance learning so that everyone can benefit from open educational perspectives of their own choice.
MANAGEMENT AND MODERNIZATION OF SCIENTIFIC ORGANIZATIONS IN THE COUNTRY FOR COMPETITIVE SCIENTIFIC RESEARCH
EFFECTIVENESS OF RESEARCH IN PUBLICLY-FUNDED RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS, INCLUDING BAS
Science is a priority and a key instrument for achieving competitiveness of the Bulgarian economy.
That is why we developed and adopted the first in Bulgaria's recent history Strategy in the field of science, which identified 5 priority areas for the development of scientific research until 2020:
energy, energy efficiency and transport;
development of green and eco-technologies;
health and quality of life, biotechnologies and environmentally friendly food;
new materials and technologies;
cultural and historical heritage;
information and communication technologies.
The direction of our actions in the coming years is: a shift from a scientific disciplinary character of research organisation and funding to problem-oriented research lines and working groups, in line with national priorities;
rethinking the institutional environment for R&D in Bulgaria in the context of global development trends
and moving towards a more unified structure and coordination at a higher management level -
Establishment of a government advisory body with members from government, academia, research, industry and NGOs, chaired by the Prime Minister, responsible for strategic development and coordination of joint efforts;
linking the training of specialists to their participation in research projects and enhancing their innovation culture;
Alignment between government, business, academia and local authorities on priorities tailored to regional capacity and needs, providing opportunities for new areas of activity and markets,
attracting foreign investment
and establishing partnerships with local and regional structures;
building scientific infrastructure in университетитев collaboration with business
and making research a central academic priority;
promoting cooperation between universities and research institutes;
the establishment of regional science centres for training and technology transfer
and transforming our country into a research and training centre on the Balkan Peninsula;
Priority promotion of collaborative projects between research organisations, universities and enterprises (through bilateral and cluster agreements between them).
FULL TRANSPARENCY AND REVIEW OF THE COMPETITIVE PROCEEDINGS IN THE SCIENCE FUND
The Research Fund has become one of the most controversial topics of our governance.
In line with the principles of transparency in governance stated in 2009, we have investigated the whistleblowing
and taken concrete measures, including changes in government staff.
Over the next 4 years, we envisage introducing systematic, regular and independent evaluation of R&D policies, institutions and programmes,
applying common European indicators to measure progress
and prioritising resources where there is a proven track record.
We are also ensuring that the planned change to the Research Fund is completed:
regulatory conditions ensuring full transparency for all future competitions, in line with the practice of European and US science competitions;
the relative share of funds for each of the priority areas and for basic research to be determined and announced before the competitions start;
tracking the results of research projects by putting in place a clear monitoring and evaluation framework to be applied to projects throughout their lifetime;
Consolidated management of the Research Fund and the Innovation Fund to achieve greater efficiency and innovation in the knowledge economy.
A nd a d d e v e l o p m e n t o f t h e s c h o o l s
Ensuring the availability of highly qualified human resources in the research sector requires strategic planning and a system that provides opportunities for the development and career progression of scientists and researchers.
In 2010 the Law on the Development of Academic Staff in the Republic of Bulgaria was adopted.
It replaced the ineffective centralised system of 1972 with a new one, providing ample opportunities for autonomous universities and research organisations to develop their own personnel policies.
However, autonomy has also led to a devaluation of the quality of scientific and professional development of academic staff, which has necessitated the launch of discussions to develop amendments to the law.
In the coming years, our goal is: a partnership between secondary education, higher education and research institutes to increase young people's interest in science;
Improving career development opportunities through the establishment of a competitive grant funding programme for high-performing researchers, including awards and pay for performance;
Providing all Bulgarian scientists, lecturers and students with access to information databases such as Web of Science, Scopus, etc.;
Publicity of research results achieved through public funding from national and European programmes;
Creation of a database of established Bulgarian scientists abroad to attract them to joint research teams for participation in international projects;
financing reintegration schemes;
Amendments to the Law on the Development of Academic Staff in the Republic of Bulgaria, ensuring transparent opportunities for career development,
national criteria and quality control of academic growth;
mobility of researchers from science to industry and vice versa;
changing the organisation of activities in higher education institutions so that the remuneration of lecturers necessarily includes research activities involving students, PhD students and pupils.
MORE OPPORTUNITIES FOR YOUNG PEOPLE TO MOVE FROM EDUCATION TO FACILITY
Young people have been particularly hard hit by the economic crisis.
Both before and now, we continue to be concerned about high levels of youth unemployment.
It is no coincidence that in March 2012 the GERB government adopted a National Initiative "Jobs for Young People in Bulgaria", which proposed a comprehensive response to the causes of high youth unemployment.
The results: in 2012, nearly 12 500 young unemployed people were provided with employment, which reduced the youth unemployment rate from 31.5% in the first quarter of 2012 to 28.5% in the fourth quarter of the year.
INTRODUCTION OF MINIMAL PAYMENT
Our priorities: enabling 50,000 young people to find employment through incentives funded by the state budget and the ESF.
Our commitment is to help every young person who graduates from secondary or higher education find their place in the labour market through inclusion in employment measures, apprenticeships, ICT and language training, career guidance, mobility support and further qualifications.
The introduction of an hourly minimum wage will have a positive impact on employment, especially for young people
- students, parents, and on the labour market in the period of recovery from the economic crisis, creating opportunities for more flexible working hours and a more flexible workforce.
Recognition of internships and work experience placements
This will make it easier for young people to apply for a first job, given the initial work experience required by most employers.
The skills acquired during volunteering are of great importance for young people's professional development and often help them in their career choice.
Recognising these skills and including them in the European Credit Transfer and Accumulation System (ECTS) is therefore important for young people's employability and mobility.
We will expand incentives for employers to hire young people, to create new jobs, to train on the job.
YOUTH EMPLOYMENT
Free enterprise is the foundation of a strong welfare state.
That is why we from GERB are working for: turning entrepreneurship into a tool to support youth proactivity and employment
by reducing the administrative burden for starting a youth business.
Create the conditions for at least 2 500 new micro and small enterprises by introducing schemes to promote youth entrepreneurship
and develop entrepreneurship skills for young people through the European Social Fund.
Activating closer interaction between education, business and science;
Developing vocational education
and opportunities for initiating learning companies
ADDING YOUNG PEOPLE TO GOVERNANCE AT NATIONAL AND LOCAL LEVELS
In 2012, we adopted the first Youth Law in the history of Bulgaria, which regulates the responsibilities and coordination between state, regional and municipal structures, as well as
between the state and the representatives of young people in the formation and implementation of youth policy.
We have adopted a National Youth Programme (2011-2015), which funds projects to provide quality services
and raise awareness and activity among young people in the country to support their personal development, social inclusion and fulfilment.
Our efforts are now focused on: Ensuring the participation of young people at national and local level in the policy-making process that affects them, through an ongoing structured dialogue between decision-makers at all levels, young people and youth organisations;
Promoting mutual understanding, intercultural tolerance, solidarity, active citizenship and building European awareness among young people.
6. CULTURE AND SPIRITUALITY
BULGARIAN CULTURE AND SPIRITUALITY: CREATIVITY, TRADITION AND TALENT
Our main goal in the coming years will be to decentralise cultural processes
and reduce state interference in the management of cultural institutions and organisations.
There are changes in the legal framework, in the mechanisms and tools for the development of the rich cultural heritage - tangible and intangible.
Our main task is for the state and municipalities to be good stewards
and for the treasures of several eras to be accessible to all Bulgarians and foreigners who visit our country.
Urgent measures are needed to protect intellectual property, the
rights of creators and performers,
copyright and related rights in all areas of culture, especially in the cultural and creative industries.
Concrete efforts should be made to integrate national cultural policy more closely with European values, priorities and programmes for the 2014-2020 period.
the importance of culture for the sustainable development of bulgaria and europe
CULTURE IS IMPORTANT FOR THE DEVELOPMENT OF OUR SOCIETY
Culture and cultural diversity make Europe attractive, original, united in the global world.
At the same time, culture is playing an increasing role in the economy of a united Europe.
The cultural economy - the creation and consumption of culture - develops our identities,
adds value,
increases competitiveness.
Tourism, which is a particularly important sector for Europe, has developed largely thanks to the interest in European civilisation and its cultural achievements.
Culture, cultural life, experiencing the spiritual are at the same time part of the quality of life.
We believe that the ability to create and consume culture, to participate in the cultural life of one's community is an integral part of human rights
and is key to sustainable development.
PROMOTING CREATIVITY, CREATIVITY AND THEIR PUBLICS, PROMOTING ACCESS TO CULTURE
STIMULATING FOR A REPEAT
We believe that creators of culture should be encouraged.
In the conditions of globalization, the talent to create culture must be retained or returned to Bulgaria.
We will stimulate the creativity that
fuels both the culture and the
economy of the country.
Culture makers make Bulgaria's regions attractive and pleasant places to live, attracting
innovative businesses and other investments.
GUARANTEED DEBUTS FOR YOUNG CREATORS
We will create a national program for debuts in all fields of art.
The programme will be developed at national and regional level.
We will steadily increase creative scholarships for children and young people.
Partial and full funding will be provided for special educational programmes in higher education related to cultural management, creativity, production.
A national framework for apprenticeships and professionalisation in culture and the cultural economy will be established.
MANAGEMENT OF THE NATIONAL CULTURE FUND
Restoring the role of the National Culture Fund as the main instrument for public funding and co-financing of cultural projects, artists and their organisations.
PROMOTING CULTURAL INFRASTRUCTURE
Over the past few years we have invested over 50 million leva of European and national funds in the cultural infrastructure of Bulgaria.
For the first time in decades, the halls and workshops of theatres and operas in major Bulgarian cities - Sofia, Varna, Ruse, Burgas and others - were renovated.
These efforts must continue.
We will develop and implement a national open access system to existing cultural infrastructure: a
public register will be operational with opportunities to work in halls and open spaces.
We will launch a public system of free or preferential access to public cultural infrastructure for young artists.
We will work to build, including through public-private partnerships, new outdoor stages in cities, dedicated urban spaces in which to present cultural events by professionals and amateurs.
We will support innovative projects taking culture to the global web
and social networks and using the "digital scene".
REfORm of the reading mReader
We are going to adopt a completely new law on community centres.
We will ensure the return of the role of community centres as a place of access to cultural and educational products.
We will work to turn these traditional Bulgarian organizations into a service provider, a place to support artists and their audiences, and
support them to become part of the cultural economy.
mOderNiSiNg oF the BIBlIoTiOnS
We will modernize the public library system.
We will continue to bring libraries into the information age - we have already successfully upgraded 960 libraries under the Global Libraries programme, which will continue.
Through the public library system, we will expand access to e-government services.
access to culture for people at risk
We will ensure that people with a range of disabilities receive systematic support to enable them to access cultural events, goods and services.
We also include preferential ticket prices for children and young people, for senior citizens.
STIMULATING THE PRODUCTION AND EXPORT OF BULGARIAN FILMS
In recent years, Bulgarian cinema has deservedly been awarded on the international stage.
A number of Bulgarian artists received prestigious awards for their work.
Theatre and cinema have achieved unprecedented success in the production and export of Bulgarian films.
These successes must receive a new level of support from the state
DEVELOPMENT OF CREATIVE (CULTURAL) ICONOMY
NATIONAL PROGRAMME FOR THE PROMOTION OF CULTURAL ECONOMY
We will support the deployment of the cultural (creative) economy through a dedicated national programme including an education and investment component.
We will work to build a national network of creative incubators and clusters focused on high added value sectors such as architecture, design, film, visual arts, software, etc.
Partnerships with "cultural factories" in other EU countries and support for common products and processes will be encouraged.
We will continue as before to systematically promote the products of cultural tourism, which complements and develops traditional holiday tourism.
SOCIAL ADVENTURES IN CULTURE
Culture is a sector particularly suitable for subsidised employment.
Global experience shows that social enterprises in culture - e.g. souvenir factories, art centres, etc. - are particularly successful.
We will support municipalities in setting up such enterprises.
We are planning to create a minimum of 10 social enterprises in the field of culture.
INVESTMENTS AND PUBLIC PARTNERSHIPS
We will stimulate investment and public-private partnerships in the creative economy.
We will support the expansion of access to European and international financial instruments that would benefit the cultural economy.
THE CULTURAL NATION OF SOVEREIGN BULGARIA
- SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT INSTRUMENT
THE MUSEUM AS PART OF THE ICONOMY
It is necessary to start systematic work on the development and implementation in the National Statistical Framework of a comprehensive system for measuring the economic and social contribution of cultural heritage.
The active involvement of museums in economic processes will be promoted through concrete initiatives based on cultural content and cultural tourism.
The museum should become a major participant in cultural routes, supporting the work of businesses.
CULTURAL TOURISM AND ENHANCED ACCESS TO CULTURAL VALUES
We will continue the successful work for the development of cultural tourism in the country.
We will work to improve access to cultural property and museum collections,
developing, offering and promoting traditional and alternative cultural and eco-routes in all regions.
Enrichment of the traditional forms of summer and winter tourism will be sought with the inclusion of various products focused on cultural heritage.
We will make full use of the improved national road infrastructure to access sites of national significance with potential for leading tourist attractions.
The roads will connect and make accessible the important sites, as it happened with Trakia highway and Kabile reserve and many others.
the relationship between cultural society and the art of the world
Support will be guaranteed for programmes and projects aimed at the interaction between cultural heritage and contemporary arts.
Through national and European funding we will strengthen horizontal links in cultural life.
Cultural heritage tourist attractions, including the historic centres of our cities, need to be systematically enlivened through the means of contemporary art.
SUPPORTED FUNDING FOR CULTURAL SOCIETY
We will implement improved funding for cultural heritage.
By expanding the scope of the National Culture Fund, systematic support for projects focused on cultural heritage and its integration into local economies will begin.
The consumption of heritage cultural products will be encouraged,
support for public-private partnerships will be ensured,
Positive commercialisation of images through tourism and its supporting industries.
MORE IMPORT AND EXPORT OF ARTICLES
We will work to promote the export of exhibitions from Bulgaria; to
encourage museums to work directly with partners abroad
and to generate revenue from the export of museum products.
Encourage participation in joint exhibitions.
Encourage import exhibitions by providing appropriate infrastructure and access.
Promote the internal mobility of collections.
STRENGTHENING CULTURAL TRADE
We will encourage the trade of cultural property within the country, we
will stimulate the trade of copies and souvenirs.
Support for social enterprises specialising in the production of souvenirs and other tourism products.
DIGITALISATION OF CULTURAL POPULATION
We will start the much needed systematic digitization of cultural heritage: the
development of a unified software for the digitization of Bulgaria's movable, immovable and intangible cultural heritage
and the systematic generation of cultural content in EUROPEANA.
PARTICIPATION IN EUROPEAN AND GLOBAL CULTURAL PROCESSES
BULGARIA - MORE ACTIVE ON THE WORLD CULTURAL SCENE
Bulgaria should be an equal and established participant on the European and world cultural scene.
Bulgarian artists should realise their potential on an international level, receive well-deserved recognition
and be encouraged to carry out joint creative projects with colleagues from other European countries.
The Bulgarian audience should enjoy the best achievements of European culture and
Bulgaria should become an attractive place for visiting European and world artists.
Building on the country's unique geographical location, we need to make it a meeting place for artists and their audiences.
Culture will also stimulate tourism and
enhance Bulgaria's attractiveness as a destination for intelligent and solvent guests.
Using the tools of cultural diplomacy and applying concrete instruments, we will continue to build links between the major cultural centres of the European continent and Bulgarian cities.
Stimulating the coproduction
The successful model of stimulating co-productions through bilateral and multilateral agreements between Bulgaria and other countries with great cultural potential will continue.
Creation of a special programme for co-productions in the National Culture Fund.
The MOBILITY OF CREATORS
Encouraging the mobility of artists, cultural products and collections through mobility programmes at regional and local level,
making better use of modern technologies to stimulate creative contacts and mobility.
We will promote the "virtual mobility" of artists and cultural products.
A SURVEY OF ARTISTS FROM THE HOMELAND
Analyses show that it is time to build a national system of residency for artists from abroad - studios, places to work and stay.
Efforts will continue to improve the existing art presentation infrastructure to meet the needs of major international formats and to meet international standards.
Renovation of NDK as a leading national congress centre and cultural venue.
OPENING OF THE NATIONAL CULTURAL CALENDAR
Expanding opportunities to support international events taking place in the country by reforming and modernising the National Cultural Calendar.
The work of the Bulgarian cultural representations around the world will be deepened,
efforts will continue to open new centres and to increase the capacities of the existing ones.
Following the opening of the cultural centre in London, we will work to open centres in the USA.
PROMOTING BULGARIA THROUGH CULTURAL EVENTS AND THE ARTS, CONFIRMING THE COUNTRY AS A DOMAIN
We will work for closer linking of the national tourism advertising with the cultural life,
using culture and artists for better presentation of Bulgaria.
Systematic work is needed to ensure Bulgaria's hosting of annual forums or meetings of European and global networks in the field of culture, art, cultural economy.
This will be achieved through cooperation and targeted support to Bulgarian members of such networks.
Successes such as the hosting of the Intangible Heritage Centre in South East Europe should find their continuation in other cultural sectors.
7. LABOUR AND SOCIAL POLICY
ACTIVE SOCIAL POLICIES THAT BUILD A BETTER LIFE
The past five years have been marked by the global financial and economic crisis.
It has sharply worsened the labour market situation and raised new questions for development policies in Europe and the world.
Bulgaria was not and could not be bypassed by the crisis.
As in all other EU Member States, employment has declined and unemployment rates have risen, especially among certain labour market groups such as young people.
As expected, subjective perceptions of dissatisfaction with material living conditions among a number of population groups have also increased.
In such a situation Bulgaria had to choose - to increase social spending and to follow the path of spiralling budget deficits, or to rely on structural reforms in the social sphere and to create the potential for a sustainable increase in the living standards of the population in the long term.
Bulgaria chose the latter.
In an environment of budgetary constraints in the area of labour and social policy, we have made the most of the budget and EU funds.
More than 37% of the operational programme budget was disbursed to improve access to quality employment
and education, in line with labour market needs,
for the social inclusion of vulnerable groups in society.
More than 280,000 unemployed and employed people are involved in training, of which nearly 240,000 have already successfully improved their knowledge and skills.
We have the self-confidence to say that the Operational Programme "Human Resources Development" has given 80 thousand unemployed people a chance to re-enter employment.
In the field of social inclusion, with the support of the Operational Programme, the number of people benefiting from social services at home or in the community has increased by more than 60 thousand people.
This is proof that structural reforms, smart use of EU funds and more efficient institutions in the social sector are the better alternative to unjustified increases in social spending.
This is a principle that we will continue to follow.
ON THE PRINCIPLES OF SOCIAL POLICY
CONTINUING STRUCTURAL REFORMS AND MORE EFFECTIVE INSTITUTIONS IN THE SOCIAL SECTOR
We will continue to improve systems for delivering services to citizens
and serving them from a single point.
This ensures better linkages between active labour market policies and the social assistance system
and enables the provision of an integrated package of active inclusion services for those furthest from employment:
long-term unemployed;
jobseekers with disabilities;
welfare dependants of working age;
discouraged persons;
people caring for dependent family members.
Cooperation with EU member states will continue to strengthen control over social payments.
Regarding the management of EU funds, we will continue to invest in human resources in the new programming period (2014-2020).
Ensuring access to training
and quality jobs for jobseekers,
opportunities for career development and greater flexibility for employees
and support for investment in working conditions by business will be our priority.
The development of human resources in the SME sector will be at the core of the new Human Resources Development Operational Programme.
On social inclusion, we will promote the development of the social economy and social entrepreneurship to create more chances for vulnerable groups to succeed through their own efforts.
As in the current programming period, people with disabilities will remain one of the main target groups of the operational programme schemes.
Again with the support of the EU, we will mobilize the necessary resources to continue the reform in the field of deinstitutionalization of children, providing opportunities for a dignified and independent life in a family environment
or in the community - for the elderly people placed in specialized institutions.
about the policy on security
MORE WITH MORE WORK
In 2010, in its National Reform Programme in implementation of the EU's Europe 2020 strategy, Bulgaria set itself the ambitious target of raising the employment rate of people aged between 20 and 64 to 76%.
This makes the objective of raising the level and quality of employment the first priority in the field of labour and social policy.
Targeted investments are needed to create more employment opportunities for young people, older workers and other vulnerable groups in the labour market.
INVESTMENTS IN THE KNOWLEDGE AND SKILLS OF THE WORKFORCE - PART OF THE ECONOMIC POLICY FOR THE DEVELOPMENT OF BULGARIA
The mismatch between the knowledge and skills of the workforce and the needs of business needs to be addressed.
Our country needs more technocrats and managers who accept the principle of corporate social responsibility.
Investing in the knowledge and skills of the workforce will be part of Bulgaria's long-term economic development policy.
Developing a system of continuing training to equip employees with the necessary skills to make them more adaptable to changing economic conditions
and ready to take up new jobs in dynamic economic sectors.
Employers will be encouraged to invest in training for their staff, knowing that their investment will be fully met by the existing network of training providers.
BALANCE OF INVESTMENTS IN THE KNOWLEDGE AND SKILLS OF THE WORKFORCE BETWEEN THE STATE, EMPLOYERS AND WORKERS AND SERVANTS THEMSELVES
There is a need to strike a balance in investment in the knowledge and skills of the workforce between the state, employers and employees themselves.
The lack of such a balance is still the reason why in 2011 in Bulgaria only 1.2% of the population between 25 and 64 participated in various forms of lifelong learning, and 9 out of 10 employees say that in the last year they have not participated in training organised by their employer.
Data for 2012 show that the efforts are bearing fruit, with the share of people participating in lifelong learning rising to 1.5%.
To a large extent this is due to the deployment of schemes under the Human Resources Development Operational Programme.
We will continue to invest in training and skills and provide opportunities through the ESF for over 300,000 people to improve their knowledge and skills to enable them to get more prestigious or higher paid jobs.
CAPACITY FOR OVER 1,000 JOB CREATION OPPORTUNITIES THROUGH INVESTMENTS IN QUALIFICATION, IMPROVEMENT OF WORKING CONDITIONS AND SOCIAL INNOVATION
Micro, small and medium-sized enterprises will have easier access to financial resources to invest in the knowledge and skills of their staff
and to improve their organisation and working conditions under the future Human Resources Development Operational Programme.
We will enable over 1,000 businesses to create new jobs through investment in skills, improved working conditions and social innovation.
This will be possible by introducing simplified procedures and criteria for the application, evaluation of project proposals and reporting on expenditure.
We will continue to support unemployed people who want to start their own business with EU funds.
The support includes the creation of the necessary entrepreneurial knowledge and skills,
material assistance for the start-up in the first few months
and accompanying services to ensure the sustainability of the venture.
PROFESSIONAL EDUCATION AND TRAINING FOR THE FUTURE
The labour market situation poses serious challenges to education and training systems, especially in the area of vocational education and training.
The vocational education system must better respond to the needs of the economy.
Decisive changes are needed to enable more local empowerment to modernise vocational schools and colleges.
In this way, admissions and curricula will respond more flexibly to the needs of the local economy and employers.
The active involvement of social partners and individual employers in the design of curricula and programmes in vocational schools and secondary schools will contribute to the good preparation of young people for the real labour market.
DEVELOPMENT OF A NATIONAL SYSTEM FOR FORECASTING LABOUR MARKET NEEDS WITH DETERMINED QUALIFICATION BY ECONOMIC ACTIVITIES AND INDIVIDUAL PROFESSIONS
We will work to develop a national system for forecasting labour market needs for skilled labour by economic activity and by occupation.
Prioritise investment in workforce skills to harness the employment potential in the sectors with the highest potential - manufacturing, tourism, ICT, green economy, health and social services.
The Operational Programme "Human Resources Development" 2014-2020 will enable investments in the qualification of the staff of export-oriented enterprises, innovator enterprises and investors significant for the Bulgarian economy.
Targeted support through the European Social Fund and the new Operational Programme for Human Resources Development should be provided to high-tech enterprises and enterprises in the knowledge-intensive sectors of the Bulgarian high-tech economy, including the ICT sector.
The development and deployment of innovation will be stimulated through a well-trained and skilled workforce.
We do not underestimate the importance of social innovation for the development of a sustainable labour market, especially in the social and health services sector.
The European Social Fund, if used properly, provides an opportunity not only to harness the potential of these sectors to create new jobs (so-called "white jobs"), but also
to introduce new approaches and methods to tackle social problems.
The coordinated use of funds under the Human Resources Development Operational Programme and the Rural Development Programme can boost employment in the agri-food sector.
It is now one of the most important sectors in manufacturing with a sustainable share in total employment.
Support for the introduction of new technologies, the qualification of employees and social dialogue in the sector will undoubtedly have positive effects on the development of the Bulgarian labour market.
WORKING WORKERS - WORKERS' PARTNER
The experience so far has shown that the range of services provided by the Employment Agency should be expanded and the focus should be on information, vocational guidance and career development for both the unemployed and the employed, but also for the economically inactive.
It is necessary to strengthen the work of the labour offices with the business so that they permanently become a partner of employers.
The development and introduction of e-services will contribute to improving the quality and speed of service delivery.
Meeting the above conditions requires targeted investment in the professional development of labour intermediaries, particularly at the local level.
Over the last four years we have demonstrated that it is not so important how much resources are allocated to active labour market policy, it is much more important that public funds are directed to the most pressing labour market problems.
Last year alone, more than 84 thousand unemployed people were included in employment under the programmes and measures of the National Action Plan for Employment and the Operational Programme "Human Resources Development".
Nearly 92,000 employed and unemployed people are involved in training.
We will continue to use the successful models for the work of labour mediators for the most vulnerable groups on the labour market
and will expand the number and services of Roma mediators.
8. HEALTH
A SUSTAINABLE AND RESILIENT HEALTH SYSTEM - A GUARANTEE FOR A GOOD FUTURE FOR THE NATION
Driven by the understanding that health care must become a real national priority, we will continue to seek broad public and political consensus for the implementation of reforms in the sector.
The nation's health problems are not problems of the health care system, but of the future and destiny of the country.
The primary and strategic task is to prevent further deterioration of the nation's health and to create the necessary conditions for its improvement.
Solving this task, which dominates the overall logic of the reform, must be combined with the organizational, economic and moral stabilization of the health system.
The result of the changes should be a health system that meets the legitimate health needs of citizens, society and the state with the available resources.
The health system in Bulgaria has undergone a number of changes under our government.
Overall health spending is comparable to other countries with similar incomes, but the share that patients pay extra out of their own pockets is disproportionately high and rising over time, and the financial protection provided by the system is incomplete.
Health status in Bulgaria is improving at a slower pace than in other EU countries, with non-communicable diseases particularly on the rise.
Coverage of preventive health services is low and hospitalisations in Bulgaria are much more frequent than in other European countries.
This is a sign that the system is not offering the right mix of services.
Despite our best efforts, we could not meet the challenge of optimising the hospital services sector.
Bulgaria is currently the country with the highest number of beds per capita.
The attempt to impose uniform quality by raising the minimum standards has led to a restriction of clinical pathways and the inability of some municipal hospitals to conclude contracts with the NHIF.
The process of opening new hospitals, concentrated in large population centres and focusing on lucrative pathways, has increased inequalities in access to treatment.
There is a need to rethink the market approach in consolidating hospital care at the expense of territorial planning of services combined with appropriate investment.
Bulgarians are among the most dissatisfied European citizens with the healthcare system.
While public spending on health will need to increase in the medium and long term,
any such increase must be accompanied by improvements in efficiency and effectiveness to make the best use of resources and deliver better health outcomes.
We aim to structure a health system that is not only accessible, but also as
transparent and familiar as possible to citizens.
A full political, public and expert consensus is needed for the reform of hospital medical care
and a long-term strategy for the development of the health sector workforce, as well as the
provision of financial resources for their implementation.
This will ensure the secure development of the system.
PROFICIALLY-THINKING FOR A BETTER HEALTH OF THE NATION
CHILDREN'S HEALTH IN THE FOCUS OF REFORMS. MULTI-DISCIPLINARY APPROACH IN ADDRESSING EVERY CHILD'S HEALTH PROBLEM
Bulgaria's population is declining at a faster rate than in other EU Member States.
Although the level of child mortality reached in the last four years is the lowest in the entire history of demographic statistics in Bulgaria, the levels are above the European average
and the alarming trends require urgent measures to improve preventive and health care for children and adolescents.
Expressions of the government's efforts in this direction were the liberated access to specialized pediatric care
and the expansion of the immunization calendar.
In order to ensure the good health status of the young generation of Bulgarians, we will rely on:
expanding the scope of preventive examinations with additional screening tests;
completing the vaccination programs with new components in line with good European practices.
Comprehensive efforts across sectoral policies to ensure early learning of healthy lifestyle principles,
rational nutrition
and sufficient physical activity;
Overcoming health inequalities among Roma communities by expanding the network of health mediators.
Implementation of the strategy for deinstitutionalization, which will allow real investment in early childhood development
and successful identification of deviations in the neuro-mental development of children at an early stage.
Creating effective teams combining medical and social care.
Timely diagnosis, proper treatment and rehabilitation of problem children, and
support for their families.
CHRONIC DISEASE CONTROL, RISK FACTOR PREVENTION. INTEGRATED APPROACH TO PERSONS IN UNCONDITION
Diseases of the circulatory organs, malignant neoplasms, diabetes, chronic respiratory diseases, mental illness, musculoskeletal diseases and trauma account for 77% of the global burden of disease in the Euroregion.
The growth of these diseases requires urgent measures to reduce the losses to the economy in terms of
directly increased health care costs
and indirectly in terms of reduced labour productivity.
We will continue multi-sectoral measures to combat modifiable risk factors.
Tobacco excise duties were sharply increased in 2010 and a
ban on smoking in indoor public places was imposed in June 2012.
These actions have a guaranteed positive effect on public health.
The improvement of diagnostics and treatment of oncological diseases was supported by an investment of 150 million leva for modern equipment of 13 medical institutions in the country.
The main role in fighting the pandemic of chronically ill will be the pre-hospital care through:
strengthening the capacity of primary health care professionals to manage the overwhelming burden of disease
and play an active role in coordinating care for their patients;
a change in the funding ratios of GPs to a preponderance of activity payment over capitation payment;
Finalise the national programme to combat chronic non-communicable diseases, selecting evidence-based additional multisectoral measures to combat risk factors;
In response to the challenges posed by the ageing population and the spread of chronic non-communicable diseases, and to the needs and expectations of the people, we need to continue to work on the introduction of a new model of socio-health care that will allow patients to control their illnesses through access to health services and appropriate therapy in outpatient care.
GUARANTEEING QUALITY HEALTH SERVICES, THE POPULATION'S ACCESS TO HIGH TECH IN MEDICINE AND FINANCIAL STABILITY OF THE HEALTH SYSTEM
Bulgaria's overall healthcare spending, although low by EU standards, is broadly in line with income levels.
We will develop the principle of solidarity in fundraising as part of the common values that should guide the development of health systems in the EU.
The health insurance contribution and the percentage allocation between employer and employee will be maintained.
Measures for the uninsured Bulgarian citizens: the possibility for the working family member to provide for the non-working one;
creation of a national support fund guaranteeing access to hospital treatment under clear social indications;
change of the Health Insurance Act in the part of sanctions - reduction of the period for reimbursement of health insurance rights from 36 to 12 months;
The ten-year experience with payment of hospitals by the clinical pathways method has shown its limitations and is currently an obstacle to the development of hospital healthcare.
Preparation for the start of the implementation of Diagnostic Related Groups (DRGs) payments.
For standardized patient classifications using hospital data
and matching the diagnosis to appropriate clinical services and to hospital payment for those services.
LTCs create incentives for efficient service delivery,
reduce unnecessary procedures
and improve transparency of hospital financing.
Unlike clinical pathways, diagnostic-related groups also take into account the severity of the disease and comorbidities.
At the end of 2011, the Council of Ministers approved a plan based on which the relative weights of 1150 clinical diagnostic procedures have been calculated so far.
LTC alone will not solve the overcapacity issue
and does not incentivize hospitals to reduce the number of hospitalized patients.
From the obligation of the NHIF to conclude contracts with all hospital care facilities, we need to move in the direction of selecting those offering the best performance at the lowest prices.
The implementation of such an approach includes a health map, which should include the health facilities - potential contractual partners.
Contracts to be concluded for a certain volume of activities with guaranteed quality and against a certain annual budget, based on the principle of competition between hospitals.
INfORmATIONAL COMMUNICATION TECHNOLOGIES
- The key to a more efficient and controlled health system
Efforts to create an integrated information system linking in real time the information systems of institutions and health care providers continue.
The unified information system, built by the Ministry of Health, should link the existing systems in the different institutions (NHIF, NSSI, NRA, MoH, etc.), health service providers (hospitals, outpatient practices, pharmacies).
This will ensure the adequacy of the health policy,
correct prioritization,
optimal and transparent financing of the sector,
fast and accurate exchange of information between all actors, which will allow real-time monitoring of the system.
Such a system would also have an economic effect, saving costs in administrative procedures.
As part of a common information system, the patient record will take healthcare to a qualitatively new level, ensuring the exchange and availability of patient data wherever it is located.
In addition to convenience and cost savings, there will be continuity in patient follow-up by different medical service providers.
As a "gateway" to the information system, the electronic health record serves as a real-time control of the consumption of a given type of medical service, which can limit potential abuse to a certain extent.
An electronic health record can ensure that patients have access at any time to their own medical records, thereby improving control over healthcare providers.
The maintenance of electronic registers is essential to systematize information - be it on patients with certain diseases, medical institutions, medicines or medical devices.
There is a need to integrate the already existing similar registers into a common information system and accessibility through web portals.
A MODEL FOR CHANGE IN MEDICAL CARE, HIGHLY TECHNOLOGICAL ADVANCEMENTS IN MEDICINE AND A CLEAR PATIENT PATHWAY THROUGH ALL LEVELS OF THE SYSTEM. DEVELOPMENT OF THE MEDICINAL TREATMENT AREA
Ensuring equal and equitable access of the population to all types of medical care with guaranteed quality.
Emergency medical care
A priority at this level is the resourcing of emergency medical care in terms of technology and personnel to ensure timely medical care for emergencies and road trauma.
It is important to provide medical transport and quality of emergency services to the nearest hospital care structures
or, if necessary, to the next level - with resources to provide quality medical care for the relevant medical problem.
There are a total of 198 emergency care branches in the country.
In order to improve the operation of emergency services in the capital, we opened 4 new branches and optimized the response time to calls.
Ahead: to draw up a national map of emergency medical teams in line with adopted national standards to maximise even coverage across the country;
to improve coordination and interaction between emergency medical teams and hospital care facilities when treating emergency patients;
to integrate the communication and information system of the CMC and the emergency departments;
develop telemedicine to provide emergency team consultations by doctors in emergency departments;
Continue to refine common conduct protocols;
to improve conditions and create incentives for the training and qualification of professionals.
Primary medical care
Resource and structural provision of primary care.
We provided 50 million leva more for primary care in the NHIF budget compared to 2008.
A proportionate increase in capitation and activity payments was implemented with an emphasis on preventive maintenance.
But for economic and professional reasons, there is a steady decline in the interest of general practitioners (GPs) to work in some low population density areas of the country and in small towns.
To overcome the problem of "vacant" practices, we will seek to optimise the incentives for working in them provided by the NHIF in conjunction with state and local government.
The practice we have introduced of setting up on-call surgeries with the participation of GPs and other doctors for payment from the insurance fund is an attempt to solve the problem of access to emergency care for the population on weekends and holidays and outside the working schedule of practices.
This is the first such step in the last 10 years, but it needs streamlining of responsibilities
and more presentation among the population.
The requirement for shared responsibilities between the primary family care system on the one hand and the specialised outpatient care facilities and hospitals on the other will continue to grow and should be supported by legislation.
The administrative restriction of access to narrow specialists based on regulatory standards in the case of GPs is a constant generator of dissatisfaction for patients and doctors alike.
Despite increasing numbers of primary care visits, patient dissatisfaction remains, as
do doubts about the effective use of referrals
and lack of patient interest in exercising cost control.
We will seek a change - from administrative regulation to easier but medically appropriate access to specialist care.
Specialised medical care The funds for specialised medical care in 2013 were 40 million more than in 2008.
We provided facilitated access to specialized medical care for children and pregnant women.
High medical standards and competition have created conditions for investment in medical equipment, which determines the modern technological level of treatment and diagnostics.
The good development of specialised medical care is accompanied by an uneven territorial distribution.
A measure to improve access to medical care will be to stimulate the mobility of specialized medical teams.
A significant drawback is the uniform prices for payment of specialised examinations.
We will offer differentiation depending on the complexity and duration of the review.
The development of the sector is in the introduction of day hospital, day surgery and home inpatient.
Hospital care Improving the efficiency of hospital service provision will be based on:
clinical standardisation by level of competence;
justified use of hospital services;
improving the financing and payment of hospital care;
improving and sustaining quality development based on established evidence-based approaches;
implementing a patient-centred hospital policy; introducing
high-tech modern methods of diagnosis and treatment.
Regulating the concept of a mandatory health card to ensure access, optimal resource planning and investment.
Quality assurance, ensured through medical audits and accreditation processes, needs to be strengthened.
Information on the quality of care will be used for hospital restructuring
and selective contracting.
Introduce a requirement for the systematic collection of standardised information on the quality of hospital care to be used as feedback.
Investments from the budget and the European funds to improve the material base of the medical institutions
and to modernize the equipment in order to provide the Bulgarian citizens with equal access to the highest technological achievements in healthcare.
The consolidation of hospitals in parallel with the development and implementation of a cross-sectoral strategy for long-term care due to the pace of population ageing.
Development of a network of inpatient care structures, including hospices, by improving the financing system and further developing the "home care" system as an alternative to expensive hospital care. -
Many active treatment hospitals are overburdened with long-term patients who could receive higher quality services at a lower cost in a better adapted environment.
Development of standards for good management of medical institutions
and improvement of the system for continuous training of hospital managers.
Developing and strengthening the capacity of hospital administrations by introducing new forms of training.
Development of a unified algorithm for the response of medical institutions to disasters and accidents.
Dental care
The budget for dental care was increased by 38 million in 2013 compared to 2008, guaranteeing better coverage of services.
Promotion of dental health and prevention of oral diseases through:
targeted state funding of programs improving dental health in children and schoolchildren up to 18 years of age, such as the National Program for Prevention of Oral Diseases in Children 0 - 18 years of age in the Republic of Bulgaria, adopted by the Council of Ministers and resourced;
expansion of dental care for war veterans, war invalids and war victims.
Regulatory changes regarding specialisation and continuing training to ensure qualified staff.
OPTIMAL AND TRANSPARENT MEDICAL POLICY
The optimal medicines policy is based on uniform standards for rational use
and unified and transparent criteria for inclusion in the system for payment of medicines with public resources.
The introduction of pharmacoeconomic analysis is a prerequisite for a well-founded decision to implement in practice any innovative medicinal product.
Shifting the focus from the unit cost of a medicinal product to the evaluation of the therapy and the expected outcome of its use will enable decisions on the inclusion of a specific medicinal product in the Positive Medicines List to be based on precise and measurable indicators
related to the social relevance of the therapy, the
expected effect on the health status of more patients,
the usefulness of different alternative therapies, as well as
their cost-effectiveness and the results of their use.
Limiting "self-medication" and its negative effects through increased control over the dispensing of prescription medicines in pharmacies.
The creation of a single expert body to shorten the timeframe for the evaluation of new medicines and ease administrative procedures.
In 2011, there was a shift from central supply of haemodialysis and oncology drugs purchased through tenders at the MoH to decentralised provision by the health facilities.
This allowed correct planning of the required quantities according to specific patient needs and timeliness of deliveries.
In 2012, the legislative possibility for the NHIF to negotiate discounts on the prices of medicines and medical devices was extended.
Streamlining the regulatory framework to allow flexible contracting mechanisms for optimal use of public resources.
The establishment of a national registry of medical devices paid for with public funds ensures more effective enforcement and quality control.
ACTION ON HEALTH QUALITY MANAGEMENT
We will develop quality in health care on the basis of:
established medical standards;
the development of rules of conduct; We
will pursue a policy to stimulate the creation of diagnostic and therapeutic algorithms by medical societies, universities, etc., to be periodically updated and to benefit physicians, as well as
to serve as a relatively objective tool in resolving disputes and assessing quality.
improving control by specialized government agencies and inspections.
From a purely administrative control based on regulatory compliance, the activity of control bodies should evolve towards medical appropriateness based on generally accepted rules of conduct.
Changes to the laws on professional bodies to clearly define responsibilities relevant to quality assurance.
Adopt a law on patient rights and obligations and develop a system for recording
and reporting medical errors and including them in a register.
solving the staffing problem
The establishment of a long-term state policy on human resources will help to overcome the existing crisis through:
Measures for planning the need for personnel based on the needs by region according to demographic characteristics.
In order to fill the needs of shortage specialties, we will expand the system of incentives and incentives for enrolment and specialisation.
Moving from planning the number of specialists needed based on training opportunities to planning for the country's needs in the future.
Together with the Medical Universities, we will seek to liberalise and decentralise the specialisation process.
Regulation of continuing education as a mandatory rather than a recommended element in the health care system.
The only way to reduce and stop medical staff leaving the country is through adequate financial support for their work
and giving them the opportunity for career advancement.
Achieving political consensus for a long-term staffing policy in the health sector at all levels - from application to retirement.
Working with professional organizations to change public attitudes towards health care
and to morally stabilize and rehabilitate the system.
9.  AGRICULTURE, FISHERIES AND FORESTRY
mOdErNaL lAgE
The last four years have been marked by a number of reforms and the adoption of laws regulating in a new way the market relations in food production and safety,
viticulture and winemaking,
fisheries, the
forestry sector, the
tobacco sector
and the organic production of food of animal and plant origin.
As a consequence of these reforms, the main economic indicators for the agricultural sector (agriculture, forestry and fisheries) grew steadily during this period.
The gross value added from the agricultural sector increased annually from BGN 2.84 billion in 2009 and exceeded BGN 4.3 billion at the end of 2012.
The share of the agrarian sector in the GVA of the country's economy went from 4.8% (2009) to 6.5% (2012).
During this period there was a steady and significant increase in agricultural exports and a positive foreign trade balance.
Entrepreneurial income in agriculture has also increased steadily, most significantly in 2011 by 18%.
The policy pursued to develop a balanced and competitive agriculture has led to a steady increase in the utilised agricultural area over the past four-year period: from 5 030 thousand ha in 2009 to 5 123 thousand ha in 2012.
This has led to a significant decrease in the agricultural land under cultivation - from 461 thousand hectares in 2009, or 8.4% of the area under agricultural use (AUP), to 358 thousand hectares in 2012, or 6.5% of the AUP, a significant part of which is in disadvantaged areas and self-forested areas.
The success of the reforms and the improvement of the economic performance of the sector were directly dependent on efforts to improve competitiveness and increased financial resources for direct support and investment through the Rural Development Programme.
Breakdown of payments under direct payments, national additional payments and state aids (in BGN - by campaign)
2009 г.
2010 г.
2011 г.
2012 г.
534 338 184
594 279 964
754 870 736
894 442 851
533 496 074
573 274 922
723 167 647
841 592 302
464 711,60
377 399
354 741
339 726
20 650 300
31 363 362
37 850 549
15 000 000
279 752 587
422 482 876
241 446 850
169 528 999
220 153 665
288 709 485
89 632 364
69 246 785
72 126 924
73 000 000
59 598 922
64 526 605
79 687 560
96 528 999
143 723 781
31 334 007
28 180 252
44 861 898
119 364 507
5 851 622
4 474 729
18 777 064
24 359 274
25 482 385
23 705 523
26 084 834
277 380 726
721 986 650
740 517 107
926 530 447
354 381
7 193 228
17 251 219
30 617 396
27 549 465
43 812 103
40 744 227
79 598 229
1 263 099 124
1 821 088 828
1 823 010 391
2 145 039 448
During this period, additional state support policies were implemented for both livestock and intensive crop production and for
small livestock farms,
including for rural development and income generation.
Farms that did not meet the requirements of various European regulations within the time limit were not allowed to close
and were given additional time to do so, as well as the
opportunity to sell their production for processing into individual types of products.
Additional support was provided for small farms.
WHAT PATH OF DEVELOPMENT WILL WE FOLLOW DURING THE NEXT 4 YEAR PERIOD
In the next programming period, agriculture will continue to develop in the direction of ensuring food security of the population,
increasing the incomes of farmers
and fair support between the different agricultural sectors.
Development of rural areas through the construction of basic infrastructure
and the provision of basic services to the population in order to attract young and unemployed people to rural areas, providing them with job opportunities,
ending the trend of depopulation in rural areas.
THE ROLE OF THE STATE FOR THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT OF AGRICULTURE
We will continue the national policy of balanced state support
and development of all sectors in the agricultural sector to ensure its sustainability and food security.
Specific support and care for difficult, mountainous and disadvantaged areas
and ensuring direct market access for producers is the main priority of government intervention in the agricultural sector.
Nationally, an important task will be the provision of quality food at affordable prices.
The role of the state in the protection of agricultural production will be regulated by the adoption of an entirely new Law on the Protection of Agricultural Property, responding to real public needs, with a public consensus reached between the National Association of Municipalities, the Association of Mayors of Localities and farmers.
For the sustainable development of small farms and young farmers, a free administrative service will be introduced by the State Agricultural Advisory Service.
A transparency mechanism and on-line tracking of farmers' support applications (including eligibility of, when declaring areas for support, animals, tobacco, permanent crops, etc.) will be introduced.
COMPETITIVE AND SUSTAINABLE AGRICULTURE
OPtImIzIon of land relations
Over the last few years, a process of restructuring in the use of agricultural land has begun, especially since our accession to the EU.
The development of agriculture requires sustainable land relations to ensure land use efficiency and increased incomes.
This need will be addressed by the adoption of an entirely new Land Code, which will codify the current legislation, guaranteeing the rights of owners, security and sustainability in the relationship between them and users
in order to make land use more efficient and increase income from it.
The main points that will be included in the Land Code are: equal treatment of agricultural land owners
and guaranteeing their rights;
promotion of voluntary land consolidation through state support for the administrative costs thereof
and through the state and municipal land fund;
efficient management of the state and municipal land fund through:
Annual auctions for the lease of the entire unused agricultural land fund with a term of use of at least 5 years and more, subject to interest;
Priority in the lease of state and municipal pastures, meadows and meadows will be given to owners of livestock and livestock farms, subject to appropriate authorization;
New regulation of lease and rental relations;
Introduction of new information and communication technologies to inform owners and users.
The new Land Code will lead to the development of modern, competitive and sustainable agriculture.
Accelerated investment in small-scale farming and in plain areas
The main focus of efforts in the coming years is to target investment funds to small farmers who have a market orientation.
Targeted efforts will be made for investment activity in small and medium farms in semi-mountainous and mountainous areas where conventional technologies are difficult to apply.
INVESTMENTS IN NEW TECHNOLOGIES AND INNOVATIONS
The application of an increasing number of market mechanisms in the EU's Common Agricultural Policy requires farmers to be continuously and sustainably competitive in production and in the market.
An important focus will be on investments aimed at implementing innovations related to tackling climate change, drought and the conservation of natural resources.
The ultimate goal is to increase farmers' productivity, increase the
number of livestock and arable land
and achieve sustainable agriculture in disadvantaged areas.
Establishment of conditions for access to the internal market.
One of the main problems of farmers is related to direct access to markets, exchanges and auctions without intermediaries.
Efforts to solve this problem will be directed in two main directions: first
- administrative procedures and financial support for the establishment of producer organizations, and
second - legal regulation of direct access of farmers to markets, exchanges and auctions.
dEvELOPMENT OF hIdROmeLiOration
The Water Sector Development Strategy adopted by the National Assembly in 2012 has created a basis for the reform and development of the hydraulic improvement systems.
Achieving high production potential in crop production (fruits, vegetables, fodder crops) under the strong impact of climate change
is directly dependent on the construction of modern irrigation facilities.
Specific actions include: design of the entire hydro-irrigation system based on current needs and existing land relations and ownership.
Legislative changes related to the establishment of easements and alignments for hydro-remediation infrastructure.
Securing financial resources for investment through the Rural Development Programme in the next programming period 2014-2020.
Separation of water pollution control activities from the budget.
Create legal conditions for the formation of a fair and affordable price for irrigation water.
FINANCIAL MATTERS
Introduction of risk management rules in agriculture - insurance systems, mutual funds, etc.
Continuing the application of financial engineering instruments - guarantee funds, credit funds, etc.
Application of notified State aid for reimbursement of excise duty paid on fuel, including for livestock farmers;
SCIENTIFIC ACHIEVEMENT AND INNOVATION OF NEWS IN AGRICULTURE
THE LEADING ROLE OF AGRICULTURAL SCIENCE
We propose the following actions: forming a new type of relationship between the Agricultural Academy (SAA) and farmers.
Participation of the branch organisations in the Advisory Council to the SAA.
Combining the efforts of the SAA and higher education institutions for scientific and applied developments aimed
at creating competitive and market-oriented agricultural production.
Developing new scientific issues for the SAA that are relevant to the challenges of the post-2014 Common Agricultural Policy.
Financial support for agricultural science from the state budget
and a gradual increase in funding for research projects from EU funds.
SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT OF SOURCE RESOURCES IN AGRICULTURE
Changes in legislation are planned to ensure the smooth employment of seasonal workers who are temporarily or permanently unemployed.
FURTHER ACCESS OF AGRICULTURAL INDUSTRIALISTS TO CURRENT INFORMATION.
We propose a new approach to the development of agricultural advisory work: building an advisory network that includes NGO actors.
For young farmers and small farms, this service will be provided free of charge.
BIOZeMeNt AND NATURAL RESOURCe PROTECTION
NATURAL RESOURCE CONSERVATION IS A STRATEGIC OBJECTIVE IN THE EU'S COMMON AGRICULTURAL POLICY.
The results of the public debate in the European Union have shown that the future development of agriculture is linked not only to the food security of the population, but also
to the protection of natural resources (soil, water, biodiversity).
We foresee the promotion of environmentally friendly agricultural practices such as:
soil conservation measures;
measures to combat climate change;
measures for the good management of agricultural land of high natural value, of agricultural land in national parks;
conservation of indigenous animal breeds;
rational management of agricultural land covered by Natura 2000.
BIOLOGICAL AGRICULTURE - A SOURCE OF HIGHER FOODS.
-The country's natural resources and traditions are prerequisites for intensive development of organic production of plant and animal food products.
The last 2 years have seen increased interest from farmers, with nearly 2000 registered organic producers in 2012, almost double the number in 2011.
The agricultural area under organic production increased annually from 4 955.47 ha in 2009 to 12 375.55 ha in 2012.
Rapid development of organic production is also observed in the livestock sector, especially in sheep and bee production.
Accelerated development of organic production in the coming years will depend on efforts in several areas, which we propose:
Taking action for more active marketing of organic products on the domestic market.
Currently, the majority of organic production (over 90%) is traded on markets outside the country.
Developing administrative procedures allowing easier access to national and EU funding for organic producers.
Priority provision of advice and information to applicants for organic production by the structures of the Ministry of Agriculture.
PROTECTION OF BIOLOGICAL GROWTH AND GENOPHONDS IN PLANT AND ANIMAL SCIENCE.
In the last 3 years, we have legally enabled NGOs to become actively involved in the conservation of biological resources in agriculture.
Through state aid schemes, these NGO efforts were financially supported.
The creation of a genetic resources bank for livestock conservation has been initiated, covering the most important species and breeds of indigenous, autochthonous farm animals.
For the intensified development of these activities we propose: to provide sufficient financial resources in the form of state aid for the next 4-year period.
Active involvement of the scientific institutes of the Academy of Agriculture in the conservation of genetic resources and enrichment of the Genetic Bank of the country.
Establishing rules on financial incentives for farmers and extending agri-environment payments under the RDP.
QUALITY AND SAFETY OF STORAGE
HIGH QUALITY AT AFFORDABLE PRICES
The establishment of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency marked the beginning of the unification of the efforts of all state institutions for a targeted policy to protect food consumers.
The marketing and quality standards introduced in the dairy and meat sectors have led to more stable incomes for farmers
and informed consumer choice.
Establishing rules on financial incentives for farmers and extending agri-environment payments under the RDP.
For the first time in 2012, the efforts of fruit and vegetable farmers to improve quality were also supported by EU funding.
In the coming years, the main objective is to provide financial support and incentives to other sectors that introduce higher quality standards, without this being at the expense of consumers.
the implementation of branding standards and quality standards - the name of the partner organisations
In order to speed up the widespread and widespread implementation of agricultural production standards, it is envisaged to strengthen the role of sectoral organisations in terms of elaboration, implementation and self-monitoring.
The main sectors targeted are: fruit and vegetables, tobacco production, potato production and beekeeping.
At the same time, conditions will be created for industry organisations to develop and apply voluntary 'good agricultural practices' in production processes.
INNOVATIVE MARKETING FOR NEW MARKETS OF AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS AND FOODS
ACTIVE ROLE OF THE STATE IN MARKETING NEW MARKETS AND NEGOTIATING NEW AGRICULTURAL, FOOD AND DRINK TRADE AGREEMENTS.
In recent years, the joint efforts of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Economy and Trade have focused on securing new markets in Asia and the Middle East.
The upward trend over the last 3 years of the positive foreign trade balance is largely related to this.
Increasing the volumes traded over the next 4 years in the emerging Asian markets will be the main objective of the Marketing Strategy.
The main focus will be the export of wine, dairy and meat products, and goods made from Bulgarian rose oil.
Much of this effort has been made possible by EU-funded promotional programmes.
Currently our country has 9 approved programmes worth 32 million euros with the main focus - presentation of products from the dairy sector, wine, canned foods and fresh fruit.
european resources for the development of bazaars
FISHERIES AND AQUACULTURE
SUSTAINABLE RESTORATION AND EXPLOITATION OF FISH RESOURCES
The main efforts are focused on the conservation of fishery resources in the Black Sea and inland natural waters,
intensive development of aquaculture
and investment activity in the construction of fishing ports on the Bulgarian Black Sea coast.
The implementation of the set objectives is directly related to the use of modern scientific methods and the implementation of innovative approaches in production.
In view of the new developments in the EU Common Fisheries Policy after 2014, the active involvement of industry organisations and Local Fishermen's Initiative Groups (established in the last 3 years) is crucial to create a sustainable fisheries sector
and stable incomes for fishermen.
FOREST POLICY
EFFECTIVE USE OF FOREST RESOURCES
A new strategy for the development of the forestry sector through: improving the capacity of forest enterprises for effective management and participation in EU programmes;
Building forest infrastructure;
Creation of new forests and application of intensive cultivation systems;
Supporting small and medium-sized local businesses in the forestry sector through open public procedures with small volumes of activities;
Establishing new activities in the forestry sector to conserve biodiversity
and efficient use of forest areas;
Creation of new jobs;
Establishment of forest fire early warning systems;
Introducing measures to adapt forests to global climate change;
Developing a methodology for valuing ecosystem services from forests;
Part of the implementation of the country's commitments under the European Forests 2020 programme.
Protecting forest resources
SUSTAINABLE MULTIFUNCTIONAL MANAGEMENT OF THE FUEL
10. ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE
WE KEEP BULGARIA CLEAN AND BEAUTIFUL
The conservation of natural resources
and their efficient use are paramount factors for the quality of life of citizens, the
functioning of the economy
and the preservation of nature for generations.
We continue to focus our efforts on: nature conservation and biodiversity;
mitigating climate change and improving the environment through the implementation of large-scale national energy and resource efficiency programmes
and the development of environmentally sustainable urban transport;
Providing citizens and businesses with vital services for 20 to 50 years ahead to build and upgrade priority basic environmental infrastructure;
reducing red tape, time and cost of services for citizens and businesses
and full and timely public awareness of the state of the environment;
full transparency and impartiality of environmental inspections and controls;
FOR THE NATURE OF BULGARIA
caring for the environment - a responsibility to future generations
The provision of ecosystem services - water, clean air, biological and soil resources, etc. - is vital for human health
and economic development.
We do not forget for a moment that nature can exist without humans, but humans cannot exist without nature.
We have started and are about to finish the largest conservation project in Bulgaria - field studies in the whole country of the protected areas - Natura 2000.
We have developed through state-of-the-art information technologies - the National System for Permanent Monitoring of Species of Wild Flora and Fauna, which we will continue to accelerate to enrich with up-to-date information on their status.
MANAGEMENT MEASURES FOR THE CONSERVATION OF PYRODE AND BIOR BIRTH, BASED ON OBJECTIVE AND SCIENTIFICALLY BASED INFOrMATION
The results of the surveys and the continuous monitoring of biodiversity are the foundation for making scientifically sound and objective decisions on:
ways and approaches to protect and restore natural ecosystems and species; -
integrating environmental care through national and local plans and projects for economic development and prosperity,
creation and preservation of jobs (with no or minimal risks to the natural environment);
Through large-scale research and approaches based on species monitoring results, we will continue to introduce restrictions and conditions , and,
where necessary for the protection of valuable territories and species - bans on construction and other damaging activities.
With such an approach we have preserved intact a number of Black Sea and other pristine areas /the ten-kilometer-long area "Kamchi Sands", "Kaliakra", "Strandja", etc./.
NON-PRESERVATION AND RESEARCH, SUSTAINABLE NATURAL RESOURCES, RESOURCES AND RESOURCES IN WILDLIFE AND ANIMALS
We find overbuilding, even with the result of significant economic growth, unacceptable.
We commit: to designate new areas for the protection of valuable species and habitats where necessary, adding them to the 250,000 ha of new protected areas and 41 protected territories that we have designated in the past mandate;
- to develop, approve and implement protected area management plans, developing at least 50 management plans for reserves
and establishing new or updating at least 7 management plans for national and nature parks; -
apply the principles of prudent management of public financial resources
and direct them towards the implementation of the measures identified in the National Priority Action Framework for Natura 2000 protected areas - the most important document for all EU Member States, which will be the basis for action in this area in the 2014-2020 programming period.Continue the
policy of preventing the spread of genetically modified organisms in the natural environment
and exercising strict control through the modern accredited laboratory we have set up;
promote the involvement and enhance the role of local and regional authorities in environmental management;
DEVELOPMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION OF PLANTS FOR THE PROTECTION OF TERRITORIES AND THE IMPLEMENTATION OF MEASURES CONSIDERED IN THE NATIONAL PHYSICAL PROGRAMME FOR ACTION
ACHIEVING CONSUSSION IN THE SOCIETY ON NATURAL POINT OF VIEW NATIONAL AND LOCAL PROJECTS FOR ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
We maintain the policy of transparency, which we first introduced by publishing on the website of the co-competent state authorities the decisions on environmental assessments under the Environmental Protection Act and the Biodiversity Act.
In this way, environmental NGOs and other representatives of the interested public have the opportunity for corrective action in case of disagreement with the decisions or in case of omissions by the competent state authorities.
WE ARE LOOKING AT THE EXPERtIoNS oF NATURAL ORGANIZATIONS AND THE SCIENTIFIC PUBLIC
We will continue to involve representatives of conservation organisations and the scientific community even more actively in decision-making through the National Biodiversity Advisory Council and other expert and advisory bodies.
for the eNERGY and resOURCE eFectiveness
MANAGEMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL, MINERAL, BIOLOGICAL, WATER, HUMAN AND OTHER NATURAL RESOURCES
We share the position of the global community that the world cannot use its energy, mineral, biological, water, soil and other natural resources in the wasteful way that has been done for decades.
Their excessive and unreasonable use leads to the depletion and threatening reduction of the planet's resources, to
the formation of huge amounts of waste and harmful emissions that
deteriorate the quality of the air, water and soil vital to humans, destroys ecosystems, and makes plant and animal species disappear forever.
eNERGY AND RESOURCES EFFECTIVENESS ARE KEY POLICIES FOR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPROVEMENT, CLIMATE CHANGE, SUSTAINABLE ECONOMIC GROWTH AND THE CREATION OF TENS OF THOUSANDS OF NEW JOBS.
More efficient use of resources and energy efficiency are the main measures through which we have started and will continue to accelerate the implementation of the goals we have set for ourselves:
reducing greenhouse gas emissions,
improving air quality,
protecting biological, water and soil resources;
protecting ecosystems and the services they provide;
improving the quality and standard of living of citizens;
reducing the country's dependence on imports of raw materials and energy resources, which
which will make Bulgaria's economy more resilient to projected future increases in global energy and commodity prices.
the national programme for the enhancement of eNERGY effecTivity - our main priority
Over the last three years, we have actually proven that we are implementing a consistent energy efficiency policy.
We supported the implementation of 797 projects for energy efficiency of the building stock, mainly public buildings - schools, kindergartens, universities, social, hospital and other public institutions, with funding from the Operational Programme "Regional Development", the National Trust Ecological Fund and the Kozloduy Fund.
The main outcomes of the projects are jobs created from the delivery of goods and services,
savings on the institutions' electricity and heating bills that can be invested in other social projects,
reduced greenhouse and other harmful gas emissions, and
a more beautiful and comfortable place to learn and work.
We will continue our policy of accelerating the delivery of public, domestic and business energy efficiency projects.
We will create new jobs as a result through the implementation of projects funded by national and European funds.
PROMOTING THE DEMAnCy OF ENERGiNg SOURCES (WEI) FOR SELF-SUFFiCiNg AND BITIoN GASiFiCATION
We have prepared and will launch an 8-year National Programme to support households to reduce energy consumption by financing RES for self-consumption (solar collectors and boilers),
fuel switching
and gasification.
CREATING EFFICIENCY AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT THROUGH WASTE MANAGEMENT
Through the municipal and construction waste management reform, which we launched at the beginning of the mandate, we increased the share of recycled waste at the expense of landfilled waste
and reduced the amount of waste generated.
In a period of only 3 years - until the end of 2011, the amount of waste generated was reduced by 862 000 tonnes compared to the end of 2008, which is 23% less waste.
Recycled and recovered waste from municipal landfills went from 0 tonnes in 2008 to 160 000 tonnes at the end of 2011.
We increased the amount of packaging waste recycled in 2011 by over 55 thousand tonnes compared to 2008, and
household waste sent for energy recovery tripled over the same period.
We developed the first National Waste Management Plan and legislation for the recovery of construction waste.
INCREASinG the share of recycled waste used to reduce the cost of primary natural resources
The solid foundation we have laid in the sector will allow us to achieve 40% recycling and recovery of municipal waste and 50% of construction waste over the next 4 years.
As a result of the development of this resource-efficient industry, we will create more than 10,000 new jobs.
In addition to proactive waste recycling measures, we will continue the major national programme to close and reclaim old municipal landfills that pose environmental and human health risks.
THE DEVELOPMENT OF SUSTAINABLE URBAN TRANSPORT - A KEY FACTOR FOR IMPROVING THE QUALITY OF THE ATMospheric IMPROVEMENT FOR THE SUSTAINABILITY OF CITIZENS
Heavy traffic, especially in larger cities, is one of the main causes of air pollution, excessive noise levels and greenhouse gas emissions.
In addition to solving significant pollution problems,
by developing modern environmentally friendly public transport we are creating the conditions for faster, more convenient and cheaper urban travel for hundreds of thousands of citizens.
With the implementation of major sections of the Sofia metro, the
projects implemented and underway for the replacement of old buses, trolleybuses and trams in major cities, we have proven in practice the implementation of this important priority of our environmental policy, which we will implement on an even larger scale in the coming years.
RESTORATIoN oF WATER RESTORATIoN AND IMPROVEMENT oF WATER QUALITY
Freshwater on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria is a national strategic resource.
In the face of an increasing lack of fresh water in many regions of the world and Europe, and based on forecasts of water crises, our top priority on water resources is to prevent depletion and improve water quality.
INTEGRATED WATER MANAGEMENT FOR WATER SECTOR DEVELOPMENT
an enhanced role of public authorities in water infrastructure management
In order to reform and overhaul water sector governance and ensure integrated water management, the National Assembly adopted the Strategy for Establishing an Optimal Sector Governance Model for the Ownership and Management of Water Infrastructure.
The Water Strategy sets out a vision for the management of the sector with a 25-year horizon and imposes key principles for development:
Strengthening the role of public authorities, as all water infrastructure that provides services of public interest is public - state or municipal;
Every element of this infrastructure should have a caring steward;
Clear distinction in terms of ownership, operators and control;
Change the approach to setting water charges based on water billed by end users, introducing incentives for water conservation;
The prices of all water services are regulated according to clear and transparent criteria;
If necessary, activate a social assistance mechanism;
Awareness of the population and businesses about the investments for each locality and the pricing.
The first part of the necessary regulatory changes has been developed.
We will introduce the full package of legislative changes and strategic documents in the water supply and sanitation, hydro-remediation, hydropower and water protection sectors.
REGULATION OF WATER SERVICE PRICES AND THE ACTIVITIES OF WATER INFRASTRUCTURE OPERATORS UNDER CLEAR AND TRANSPARENT CRITERIA PROTECTING THE INTERESTS OF POTTERS
ESTABLISHMENT OF A NATIONAL REGISTER OF INFRASTRUCTURE IN THE WATER SECTOR
During our mandate, we secured financial resources and started the creation of a unified national register of infrastructure in the water sector;
water supply networks, dams, reservoirs, irrigation systems, dykes, etc., which eliminated neglect and the lack of up-to-date objective information on the condition of facilities.
A NATIONAL INFROMATION SYSTEM FOR WATER MANAGEMENT
To ensure the availability of up-to-date and timely information, we have started the design process and will build a unified water management information system.
We have made important steps in building a water monitoring system and will continue to build on it.
MONITORING AND MANAGEMENT PLANS FOR RIVER BASINS TO GUARANTEE QUANTITY AND IMPROVE WATER QUALITY
Water sector policy is based on River Basin Management Plans.
In the preparation of the second river basin management plans for the period 2015-2020, programmes of measures will be developed aimed at ensuring the quantity and improving the quality of surface and groundwater, which will also take into account the need to adapt to climate change.
OPtimIzIzIng M inIrAL WATER MANAGEMENT AND ENSURIng IcIvItIes fOr GENERATIng C ommUNIties by DEVELOPING LOCAL ECONOMIC ACTIVITIES AND ENHANCING BALTIC AND SPA TOURISM
In 2010, a legal possibility was created for municipalities to manage part of the mineral water deposits - exclusive state property, with the state transferring the management rights to local authorities.
As a result, 43 municipalities now have 65 mineral water deposits allocated to them free of charge for 25 years.
Supporting the development of local economic activities through optimising mineral water management will continue.
We will also provide grant funding for the implementation of municipal geothermal water utilization projects.
INVESTMENTS IN ECOLOGICAL COMMUNITY INFRASTRUCTURE
BUILDING A NEW AND MODERNIZING THE EXISTING ECOLOGICAL INFRASTRUCTURE PROVIDING CITIZENS AND BUSINESS SERVICES OF PRIMARY IMPORTANCE, FOR A 20-50 YEAR PERIOD
In the context of the financial and economic crisis, GERB has adopted the sensible approach to focus investments in the sector on the most significant and priority sites of basic environmental infrastructure.
As a result of our efforts during GERB's mandate, new and upgraded wastewater treatment plants have been commissioned or are under construction in settlements for a total of 4,602,000 equivalent inhabitants; drinking water
treatment plants serving over 380,000 inhabitants have been commissioned or are under construction;
projects for the replacement or construction of a new water supply network - a total of 5,050 km - have been implemented and are under implementation.
CONNECTING THE BUILDING AND MODERNIZATION OF FACILITIES FOR WATER RESOURCES AND WATER RESOURCES FOR ALL RESIDENTS - OVER 10,000 EQUIVALENT RESIDENTS
DEVELOPMENT OF NON-BOOKWATER PROTECTION INFRASTRUCTURE
We continue to build water supply and sanitation infrastructure in agglomerations with more than 2,000 inhabitants equivalent (e.g.) by applying an integrated approach
and respecting the regional planning principle and introducing eco-innovations to achieve efficiency and savings.
During the next term, the construction of all wastewater collection and treatment facilities in settlements above 10,000 population will be completed.
The projects for the settlements above 2000 inhabitants will be largely prepared and implemented.
We will complete the construction of wastewater facilities along the Bulgarian Black Sea coast, which will improve the marine environment
and tourism conditions.
In the waste sector, projects for the construction of facilities for the recovery of biodegradable and recyclable municipal waste and modern landfills have been completed, prepared and are under implementation, serving over 5 million inhabitants in the country.
IMPLEMENTATION OF ALL REGIONAL WASTE MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS
We will complete all regional waste management systems.
We will focus our efforts on building biodegradable and green waste plants,
recycling facilities,
recovery and disposal of municipal waste
and expand/renew municipal waste collection and transport systems.
We will continue to implement the major national programme for the phased closure and rehabilitation of municipal landfills that do not meet regulatory requirements.
Financial resources will be made available for recycling, recovery and disposal of sludge from constructed WWTPs, as well as
for the recovery of biogas separated from sludge from WWTPs and landfills.
EFFECTIVE APPLICATION OF ECOLOGICAL LEGISLATION
ESTABLISHING THE FREEDOM FOR LOYAL COMPETITION IN THE ENVIRONMENT AND EFFECTIVE ENFORCEMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL LAWS
All administrative acts of the competent authorities are published on the websites, thus ensuring full transparency
and the possibility of control and participation of civil society as a corrective to improve the effectiveness of policies in this area.
Much has been done, but there are still opportunities to improve user access through the development and maintenance of new public registers, as well as the
wider adoption of electronic document exchange and processing.
We rely on the input of the advisory councils to the Minister of Environment and Water - the EEC, the SCSB, the SCSB, and we will expand our interaction with representatives of the non-governmental sector, professional organizations and the scientific community, which support informed and reasoned management decisions in the field of environmental protection.
Active dialogue with conservation organisations - we will rely on their participation on a rotational basis.
MONITORING, MONITORING AND INFRORMIRATION OF THE ENVIRONMENT
WE WILL CONTINUE TO APPLY STRICT CONTROLS AND KEEP THE ENVIRONMENT INFORMED ABOUT THE RESULTS OF THE ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING
Improving the control activities of the MoEW is our top priority.
We have seriously strengthened the control by carrying out regular complex inspections to ensure that the conditions in the permits and the prescriptions issued by the competent authority are met.
When violations were detected, a principled and uncompromising approach was applied in imposing administrative sanctions, fines and preventing pollution, including through the final measure - compulsory shutdown of industrial production (e.g. stopping the pollution of Kardzhali with lead aerosols).
The practice of carrying out coordinated joint inspections with the authorities of the Ministry of Regional Development, the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Health was introduced.
Environmental monitoring has also been improved.
Since mid-2009, 8 new information systems to the National Environmental Monitoring System have been introduced or are in the process of being developed,
5 new registers have been introduced and 8 public registers are being maintained in the field of waste monitoring, protected areas, pollutant release and transport and greenhouse gas emission trading.
Public databases and registers with environmental information are being developed (the MoEW and the Ministry's subdivisions maintain over 240 databases and public registers)
and the National Electronic Catalogue of Environmental Information Sources is being updated.
A unified database on control activities has been established and monthly reports on the control activities of the 16 Regional Inspectorates are published.
The good practice of publishing draft documents and regulations on the website of the MoEW and its divisions for public consultation, comments and suggestions continued.
AN ACTIVE POLICY TO INCREASE ECOLOGICAL AWARENESS
The building of environmental awareness and culture in society has been supported by a series of national awareness-raising campaigns and initiatives, such as Green Bulgaria, Green Idea, For a Clean Environment and Green Stories, which we will continue and make traditional.
We promote care for nature and will make extra efforts to reach especially children and young people.
11. REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND ROAD INFRASTRUCTURE
hAetOs AND INVESTMENTS IN RegIonITY
The regional policy we pursued ensured the negotiation of all the money under the Operational Programme "Regional Development" (OPRD) foreseen for Bulgaria in the period from 2007 to 2013.
As a result of our focused and consistent efforts, we have accelerated the implementation of projects related to European transport axes and corridors.
We are building the Trakia, Struma and Maritsa motorways according to the latest world quality technologies, and we have completed the Lyulin motorway.
More than 150 km of new motorways have been built and
more than 1,500 km of the road network has been fully rehabilitated.
In line with the general policy to fight corruption and restore the rule of law, illegal constructions and buildings were removed in the fishing village near Burgas, the villa village "Golden Pearl" in the municipality of Tsarevo, in Pamporovo.
More than 230 illegal constructions were removed in the areas of the Ivaylovgrad, Kardzhali and Iskar dams.
Control over the implementation of the concession contracts for the beaches along the Black Sea coast was strengthened
and for the first time monitoring of all beaches was carried out.
The revenues from fines and penalties imposed on the concessionaires reached almost BGN 1.4 million for the year alone.
The targeted policy for the full use of all possible financial sources allowed over BGN 3 billion from the ODA to be invested in more than 3500 projects for the improvement of the urban environment - parks, playgrounds, green areas and inter-block spaces.
Investing in the transport and technical infrastructure - the street and municipal road network, the
construction of more than 100 km of bicycle paths in our major cities, the
creation of Internet access, the
renovation and equipping with state-of-the-art equipment of hospitals, schools, nurseries/gardens, theatres, operas, community centres, nursing homes throughout Bulgaria
have led to higher growth and increased local employment.
For the modernization of urban transport in the 7 big cities, European and national funding for BGN 500 million was secured.
More than 200 new buses and trolleybuses will be part of the daily life of Sofia, Varna, and Burgas.
With the funds provided, more than 200 fire engines were delivered to support fire safety in Bulgaria.
Around BGN 120 million have been invested in strengthening landslides and collapses
and measures have been taken related to flood prevention.
BGN 280 million have been provided to support hospitals for more modern and effective treatment of cancer patients.
Over 350 million BGN for tourism infrastructure contributes to the sustainable development of the tourism sector
by supporting the construction of attractive tourist destinations, the
restoration and reconstruction of a number of theatres, operas, architectural and cultural monuments in the country.
The project "Energy renovation of Bulgarian homes" was launched in 36 urban centres, within which owners receive a minimum of 50% grant for the renovation of each approved building.
We have launched the long-delayed reform in the water sector.
We worked to complete the Ring Road for safe, easy and fast access to all areas of the country and to divert and concentrate the scattered heavy transit traffic from the country's roads onto the highways.
The partial introduction of the tolling system will allow for a fairer model of motor vehicle taxation for the use of Bulgaria's roads.
It is planned that in the future heavy traffic will pay for distance travelled and not, as now, for time.
This will make it possible to preserve the social function of the vignette for light vehicles.
We believe that the vignette should become electronic, because this will increase the funds from the fees coming into the budget of the country, with which we will repair more roads.
It is extremely important to continue the construction of Bulgaria's road infrastructure,
because the presence of 5 of the 10 corridors would give many of the country's major cities a major advantage to join the Trans-European Transport Network.
Currently, the quality of the available infrastructure in our country is not conducive to unlocking these opportunities.
There is currently a lack of continuous, coherent and permanent transport networks that provide fast and safe travel over longer distances.
The development of road infrastructure will reduce the migration of the population to the larger settlements.
Good communication and transport connectivity will also stimulate the development of business plans related to the creation of alternative jobs in rural areas
and the possibility of applying economic incentives for investors.
We continue this policy to achieve employment and investment for the regions of Bulgaria!
IMPROVING THE HEALTH AND WELFARE OF PEOPLE IN ALL REGIONS AND CONTINUING THE MODERNIZATION OF ROAD INFRASTRUCTURE FOR INVESTMENTS
The challenges for regional policy continue to be focused on improving the quality of life of Bulgarians
and creating a favourable business environment for sustainable development of a competitive economy in all regions.
Our efforts will be focused on achieving four main goals: growth and reducing regional disparities by providing employment and increasing the incomes of Bulgarian citizens.
Continue upgrading road infrastructure.
A complete reform of the water regulator, in line with the fair demands of citizens.
Implementing a major change programme in the water sector.
Restriction of illegal construction and control of the Black Sea coast.
The implementation of these objectives will strictly respect the principles of balanced development,
decentralisation,
subsidiarity,
ensuring resource efficiency and complementarity between them,
improved coordination and partnership between central, regional and local authorities, the business sector, social partners, NGOs and the scientific and technical community.
The moderate police
- mOdEL for the regional development of bulgaria
We will implement the policy of moderate polycentrism by: Supporting balanced territorial development by maintaining a hierarchical system of
city-centres at national and regional level, as a means of reducing the marked territorial imbalances in economic development
Emphasising the role of cities as engines of growth
and centres of creativity and innovation;
Creating innovative networks between cities to compete at European and global level;
Giving a significant role to small and medium-sized cities.
STIMULATED DEVELOPMENT OF RESIDENTIAL, PERIPHERAL AND PUBLIC AREAS
Stimulated development of backward, peripheral and mountainous regions is possible through:
Development of secondary transport axes in synchrony with the main axes to ensure equal access even to the remotest parts of the country;
Development of a National Programme for the Promotion of Investment in Backward, Peripheral and Mountainous Areas and the establishment of local centres to work under this programme;
Achieve free and socially equitable access to information and communication technologies in all areas, especially in peripheral rural areas,
and the possibility of decentralised work and the provision of services of general interest;
Equal coverage of the national territory with a network of high-level public services in health, education, social assistance and culture - and improved access to quality services;
Support for small municipalities in underdeveloped areas to increase their administrative capacity in preparing public investment projects;
Inclusion of Bulgarian Danube Region municipalities and districts in the pan-European Danube Region
and the development of cross-border partnerships and Euroregions for integrated river basin management,
water, soil and biodiversity conservation
and stimulating economic development and cultural exchanges;
Supporting upland areas through the development of organic farming in communities with irrigated land,
organic livestock farming in certified areas,
ecotourism in its most sustainable forms,
Tax preferences for conventional industries such as food processing, garment, wood processing, etc;
Implementation of the European Green Belt initiative for sustainable development and nature conservation in mountain border areas through the establishment and joint management of cross-border protected areas;
Restoration of disturbed areas,
of ecological balance and biodiversity,
adapting to climate change
and disaster risk reduction;
Stimulating social cohesion by providing access to on-line services for people living in sparsely populated and remote areas, in order to overcome the tendency to isolate this part of the population from the social and cultural life of the country.
POLITICAL PARTY of the GerB ' 2013 - 116
TARGETED POLICY TO PROMOTE THE CHRONIC ECONOMIC ISOLATION OF NORTHWESTERN BULGARIA
A targeted policy to overcome the chronic economic underdevelopment of Northwest Bulgaria, which we will implement through:
Support for the transformation of Vidin into a city that, thanks to its geographical position, can successfully balance the capital Sofia in the North-West Region (NWR),
including through the establishment of a regional investment promotion centre;
Improve the attractiveness of the business environment by investing in the basic infrastructure of the NWP,
attracting investment interest and stable global and national companies;
Provision of funds and preparation for the construction of "vital" road infrastructure for the ND - the bypasses of Vratsa and Montana, and the expressway "Vidin Montana" as part of the project "Vidin - Botevgrad" - 126 km long;
State support for improving the business infrastructure in the major cities of the NWFP - Vidin, Vratsa and Montana,
including through support for economic development zones (such as business parks, business incubators, etc.) to realize the area's competitive potential, such as the relatively cheap cost of land and labor;
Determination of the 16 towns with micro-regional importance in the NWP - Belene, Belogradchik, Berkovitsa, Byala Slatina, Knezha, Kozloduy, Kula, Levski, Lom, Lukovit, Mezdra, Nikopol, Oryahovo, Teteven, Troyan, Cherven Bryag, as priority for support of integrated urban development under the Operational Programme "Regions in Growth" (OP GR) - 2014-2020.
These towns are centres providing jobs and essential services of importance to more than one municipality, and good transport and communication links with them will be essential in the future.
Other policies: Strengthen urban-rural links at all levels by improving accessibility
and employability.
Planning specific measures to support peripheral and sparsely populated rural areas - the main role for peripheral development is played by metropolitan urban areas;
Ensuring better accessibility and connectivity of cities and regions by improving their transport and communication links,
by developing regional and local transport networks and linking them to the European transport network;
Planning for sustainable urban development through an integrated approach to urban reconstruction and renewal;
Conservation of natural and cultural heritage through sound management that contributes to the preservation of regional identity
and boosts the competitiveness of EU regions and cities;
Planning the spatial development of cities and regions according to the threats and challenges of globalisation, demographic change, climate change and energy dependence.
BEAUTIFUL, BEAUTIFUL, BEAUTIFUL AND BEAUTIFUL CITIES
We will continue our targeted policy to improve the overall appearance of our cities and make them more attractive places to live.
Within the framework of the JESSICA initiative, two funds have already been set up with ODA and private co-financing to invest in projects for the development of the 7 major cities.
Their work will continue, the scope of their interventions will be expanded.
That is why we guarantee: by the end of 2013, our 36 big cities will have a greener
and more accessible urban environment;
we have already invested more than 200 million BGN in 41 cities, by the middle of the year another 180 million BGN will be added;
Negotiating the maximum possible increase of the budget of the new Operational Programme "Regions in Growth" 2014-2020.;
Negotiating resources in the OP "Regions for Growth" to support: Construction and renovation of nurseries, kindergartens, schools;
Improvement of cultural centres and centres;
Improvement of mass public transport;
Changing the appearance of cities by building playgrounds, rehabilitation of inter-block spaces, parks, green areas and gardens;
Energy efficiency in Bulgarian homes and on the streets of cities;
Doubling the JESSICA resource and creating conditions for local businesses to participate more actively in the development of a sustainable living environment in their locality;
Supporting the provision of social housing for marginalised groups in Bulgarian cities.
Social integration of socially disadvantaged people from the Roma community by improving housing conditions;
Prevention of the occurrence and expansion of landslide and collapse processes, erosion and abrasion due to human activity
and restoration of damage to settlements and technical infrastructure;
Provision of financial resources under the OP "Regions in Growth" to support the development of regional tourism with the aim of higher visitation
and developing the potential for small and medium-sized businesses in smaller settlements;
Provision of conditions for equal access and chance in life for children deprived of parental care.
Ensuring that adults and children deprived of parental care have living conditions close to the family environment.
eNERGY EFFECTIVENESS
- LOWER COST OF THE HOUSE AND BUILDING SITE
Energy efficiency is a top priority for both the EU and Bulgaria.
The target set for the next programming period is to cover 16% of the building stock.
We will work to : Energy Efficiency in Residential Buildings:
completing the 60 million investment in the Bulgarian Homes Energy Renewal project and its expansion;
providing resources for the continuation of the Bulgarian Cities Renewal project under the 2014-2020 Regions in Growth OP;
channelling funds from the sale of emission allowances to help households change the way they heat.
The programme aims to reach 1 million people in 4 years;
Energy efficiency in public buildings:
Continuation of the ongoing process of renovation of public buildings;
Provision of financial resources under OP "Regions in Growth" 2014-2020 to support the energy efficiency measure for public buildings in the 67 major cities - engines of growth in the country.
WE CONTINUE THE MODERNISATION OF ROAD INFRASTRUCTURE
We continue to build the country's infrastructure to:
Turn Bulgarian towns and villages into areas attractive for investment, work, tourism and with an improved quality of life;
Make all Bulgarian towns and villages more accessible and end the isolation of some of them;
Open to the world all, even the most remote areas in Bulgaria;
Make travel faster, cheaper and safer;
Realise Bulgaria's strategic geographical location as a "gateway to two continents" by increasing passenger and freight traffic through the country, which will attract new revenues for the country.
DEVELOPMENT OF THE COUNTRY'S MASTER ROADWAY AND MODERNIZATION OF ROADS FOR MODERN AND SAFE ROAD INFRASTRUCTURE
We guarantee: Accelerated completion of the Maritsa, Hemus, Struma and Kalotina - Sofia Ring Road, construction of the Ruse - Svilengrad road, the Shipka tunnel, the Sofia - Botevgrad - Vratsa - Montana-Vidin road, the Northern Express Tangent, the Sofia Ring Road in its entirety;
Rehabilitation of the old sections of the Trakia Motorway;
Modernization and repair of over 1500 km of the first, second and third class road network in the country
for accessibility and connectivity and balanced development of all regions in Bulgaria.
FEWER ROAD CASUALTIES, MORE SAFETY AND COMFORT ON THE ROAD
Main measures: road safety audit - installation of new shoulders, road signs, markings, etc.;
Programme for repair of bridges and other road structures (2013-2017):
bringing the technical and operational qualities of transport structures to the requirements of European technical standards;
development and updating of the database on bridges in Bulgaria;
creation of a BMS (Bridge Management System).
MORE FAIRNESS ON THE ROADS - HEAVY VEHICLES THAT ROLL MORE ON THE ROADS SHOULD PAY MORE TO DRIVE ON THEM
Key measures: introduction of an integrated electronic system for collecting tolls for the use of road infrastructure by heavy goods vehicles on the basis of distance travelled and of electronic vignettes for light goods vehicles;
A fairer distribution of the financial burden of tolls;
Increase toll revenues, which will allow for increased financial resources for road repairs and preventive maintenance;
Completion of the Ring Road, which will "get" all heavy vehicles on the highways
and will make it much cheaper and more efficient to maintain the remaining roads,
and safer travel.
FULL WATER REGULATOR REFORM, COMPLIANCE WITH CITIZENS' REQUIREMENTS
Civil protests in February 2013 put on the agenda the issue of a complete reform not only of the energy regulator but also of the water regulator.
That is why we will undertake a total reform of the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission (SEWRC), taking into account citizens' demands.
WATER FOR BULGARIAN REGIONS - IMPLEMENTATION OF A NATIONAL PROGRAMME FOR CHANGE IN THE WATER SECTOR. No WATER RRIGGING.No WATER LEAKS AND NO WATER THEFT.
Our goal is to ensure sufficient quantity and quality of drinking water and continuity of water supply for all settlements in the country.
We have already launched procedures for the construction of 3 new dams - "Luda Yana", "Plovdivtsi" and "Neykovtsi", and for the rehabilitation of the "Studena" dam.
Their construction and rehabilitation is expected to improve the water supply to about 200 thousand people.
Continuing through: Targeting investments for the construction of dams and reservoirs for drinking water
and rehabilitation of water supply pipelines and facilities;
Water loss reduction programs - construction of new dams;
Introduction of integrated water resources management;
Ensuring compliance with European directives on wastewater disposal and treatment and implementing innovative and efficient solutions in the field;
Increasing efficiency in the use of EU funds and the preparation of short, medium and long-term investment programmes based on the regional master plans for water and wastewater systems;
Restructuring of companies providing water and sewerage services and their transformation into water and sewerage operators.
The changes should provide opportunities for the operation of water and sewerage operators in a real market and competitive environment
and for making higher demands on the quality of their services;
Creation of information systems on water and sewerage services at national level for up-to-date information on water and sewerage operators and associations, as well as
on water management systems and facilities and their technical and operational status.
Restriction of illegal construction and control of the black region
We continue the zero tolerance policy towards illegal construction and violation of concession contracts for the Black Sea beaches
We guarantee: strict control over the implementation of the concession contracts for the beaches on the Black Sea coast
and full transparency in the procedures for new concessions and leases of sea beaches;
Strict construction control
and as fast as possible procedures for the removal of illegal buildings,
Full transparency in the issuance of building and use permits and in the approval of master plans and detailed development plans;
Preventing illegal construction throughout the country and especially on the Black Sea coast, in the "bowls" of the dams and in the mountains.
The CASTER IN THE SERVICE OF CITIZENS AND THE BUSINESS
The cadastral map increases the security and speed of transactions,
improves the investment climate,
creates confidence in business in real estate transactions.
We are committed to the effective development of the cadastre over the next 4 years by:
Unification of the Agency for Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastre, the Property Register at the Registry Agency and the Register of Property Restitution Maps at the Ministry of Agriculture and Food into one institution;
Continuation of the process of covering the territory of the country with a cadastral map, including the priority creation of specialized maps of the sites referred to in Article 6, paragraphs 4 and 5 of the Law on the Spatial Development of the Black Sea Coast, including the delimitation of the protection zones "A" and "B";
Creation of a cadastral map for the territories of 28 pieces of Black Sea land falling within the 2.5 km strip required for the mapping of the protection zone "B";
creation of a cadastral map and cadastral registers of the eight administrative districts of the city of Sofia Sofia and for the other cities for which they have not been developed;
Introduction of new electronic services in cadastral offices;
Significant shortening of the procedure for amending the cadastral map and cadastral registers,
and the possibility for notaries to take over part of the activity of providing sketches;
Creation of the possibility for official documents (sketches, schemes, certificates or extracts from the cadastral map and cadastral registers) to be issued by any office of geodesy, cartography and cadastre for the entire territory of the country.
Enhancing the role of local governments
We share the view that there is a need to deepen decentralisation processes and to enhance the role of local authorities.
This will help bridge the gap in lifestyles between the central and peripheral regions of the country.
We therefore propose: the implementation of administrative-territorial reform.
Rethinking the number and functions of district administrations;
Transfer of power from the "centre" to the "periphery" to end the top-down decision-making model,
continuing the decentralisation process,
including strengthening the financial autonomy of local authorities,
and the possibility for the funds from local taxes and fees to remain partly in the municipalities;
Providing the opportunity for several municipalities to unite on a voluntary basis in exchange for financial incentives from the state;
Enhancing the capacity of municipal administrations for better absorption of EU funds
and to deliver better public services.
The division of the territory of the country into larger administrative-territorial units than the current districts creates a real basis
to optimise management processes,
to reduce administrative costs
and mobilising resources and capacities to address the specific problems of the territory,
at a scale that allows for better coherence with policies and activities at national level.
BULGARIA - A RELIABLE PARTNER IN THE BALKANS
As a country located in the heart of the Balkan Peninsula and Europe's gateway to Asia, it is crucial for Bulgaria to continue to actively use the instruments of cross-border cooperation (CBC)
and to establish itself as a stable partner both along the EU's internal and external borders.
We will therefore strive to: increase the amount of funds contracted and used under the CBC programmes;
ensure national co-financing of Bulgarian partners participating in the European territorial cooperation programmes;
increase the total amount of funds for the CBC programmes, which will enable municipalities to have access to more funds.
To cards 2 and 3:
Completed motorway sites
Motorway sites under construction
Roads rehabilitated/reconstructed
Newly built sections
Total
2005-2009.
81.4 km
43 km
616 km
86 km
826 km
2009 - 2013.
156 km
158.5 km
1282 km
12.5 km
1609 km
To card No. 4:
Between 2007 and 2013. Bulgaria, as a new EU member state, started with the absorption of EU programmes, including the programmes that finance the construction and maintenance of road infrastructure.
With funding under the Operational Programme on Transport (OPT) Bulgaria has started and by the end of the programming period is planned the completion of the following major infrastructure projects worth over BGN 1.800 billion:
Trakia Motorway, Lots 2, 3 and 4;
Struma Motorway, Lot 1 and Lot 2
Struma Motorway, Lot Lot 4;
"Connection of Hemus Motorway with Sofia Ring Road" - Yana Station junction";
Road (I-5) Kardzhali-Podkova
"Western arc of the Sofia Ring Road (SRR)", Section 1;
"Western arc of the Sofia Ring Road (SRR)", section 2;
"Bypass of the town. Vratsa";
"Bypass of the town. Montana";
"Bypass of the town. Gabrovo".
With the implementation of these projects, the financial framework for road projects under the OPT is being fully utilized, and there is a possibility for implementation of three more important projects for the country:
"Northern Expressway";
Sofia - Kalotina Motorway;
"Vratsa (Mezdra) - Botevgrad";
Our vision for the period 2014-2020 is for Bulgaria to have a sustainable road network integrated into the European system.
The strategic objectives we set ourselves are the development of a sustainable road infrastructure,
integration of the national network into the European network,
improvement of road infrastructure safety,
efficient management of the road sector.
For the 2014-2020 period, the strategic infrastructure projects we will work to finance are:
Completion of Struma Motorway Lot 3 "Blagoevgrad - Sandanski" - length - 67 km;
The motorway is part of the Trans-European Transport Corridor (TEC) No. 4 and offers the shortest route to connect the Danube waterway and the Aegean Sea;
Completion of Hemus Motorway in the section "Yablanitsa - Veliko Tarnovo" - construction of the motorway;
in the section "Veliko Tarnovo - Shumen" - construction of an expressway - length - 270 km;
The forthcoming completion of Danube Bridge 2 at Danube. Vidin defines a new role for the motorway as a feeder road for traffic to TTCs 4 and 9;
Tunnel under "Shipka" peak - stage 5 of the project. Gabrovo with a tunnel under Shipka Peak" - length - 11 km;
The tunnel is a nodal point in the north-south traffic flows, the construction of which will provide the best route crossing the Balkan Mountains in the central part of the Republic of Bulgaria in the direction of TETC No. 9;
Expressway "Vidin - Montana" - part of the project "Vidin - Botevgrad" - length - 126 km;
The sections included in the project are part of TEC No. 4.
They will serve the traffic to and from Danube Bridge 2 at the town of. Vidin, transit traffic will be moved out of the settlements
and the conditions for economic development of the lagging regions in Northern Bulgaria will be improved;
Expressway "Ruse - Veliko Tarnovo - road junction Debelets" - part of the project "Ruse - Makaza" - length - 110 km;
The section is part of TEC No 9.
The construction of an expressway is foreseen for the entire route of the corridor on the territory of Bulgaria, thus connecting Danube Bridge 1 with the highway ring of the Republic of Bulgaria (Hemus Motorway, Trakia Motorway via the Black Sea Motorway);
Expressway "Ruse - Shumen", section "Ruse - Belokopitovo" - length - 108 km;
The construction of the road will improve the transport communications between the r. Danube and the Black Sea.
Road II - 18 "Sofia Ring Road - South Arc" from km 50+560 (Vasilashko Lake Street) to km 58+520 (P.V. with Lyulin Motorway) - continuation of the Sofia Ring Road project in the section from km 59+400 to km 61+629.18 and from km 0+000 to km 6+309 (Western arc of the SOP); - length - 8 km; The
section is located along TEC No. 4 and is one of the most congested sections of the Republican road network with proven capacity depletion.
"Kalotina - Sofia Ring Road" from km 32+447 to 48+329 - length - 16 km; The
section is part of TEC No. 10.
It is a continuation of the Trakia and Hemus motorways towards Serbia and will provide improved connectivity to the Adriatic Sea ports and to the countries of Central and Western Europe.
Bypass road of the town. Plovdiv - length - 19 km;
It provides a connection for transit traffic to and from the Trakia Motorway via the ring road of the town of Trakia. Plovdiv from and to the directions "Plovdiv - Asenovgrad - Smolyan - Rudozem - Ksanti" and "Plovdiv - Asenovgrad - Kardzhali - Makaza Checkpoint".
Expressway "Gyueshevo - Kyustendil - Dupnitsa" - 62 km long; The
road is part of the TETC № 8 and provides access to the countries of the Western Balkans to the Black Sea ports of Varna and Burgas.
Rila expressway: Dupnitsa - Trakia Motorway / Hemus Motorway - length - 107 km; The
road will provide a strategic link between Struma Motorway, Trakia Motorway, Hemus Motorway and the Gyueshevo-Sofia expressway.
Heavy goods vehicle traffic in the capital area will be reduced.
The road will connect the winter resort areas around Samokov and Borovets with Sofia.
Expressway "Durankulak - Kavarna - Varna" - length - 115 km;
The route is part of the Black Sea motorway ring and a link with Romania, Moldova, Ukraine and Russia.
It is a natural continuation of Trans-European Transport Corridor No. 8, ending in Varna;
Black Sea Motorway - length - 110 km; The
motorway is a key element of the national and European transport network.
The necessary resources for the implementation of these projects are about BGN 8.6 billion, part of which will be financed through EU funds, while the rest - from the state budget, loans or public-private partnership.
POLITICAL PARTY of the GerB ' 2013 - 127
BULGARIA IN THE RIGHT DIRECTION
12. TRANSPORT
for safe and secure transport
At the beginning of our mandate in 2009, we identified the accelerated modernisation of the country's transport infrastructure as a key priority for our future work.
We have prioritized the fight against the grey sector
and unfair competition,
ensuring access to transport services in all regions of the country, and
improving the safety, security and environmental friendliness of the transport system.
To define the transport policy in the period up to 2020, we developed two main strategic documents: the
Strategy for the Development of the Transport System of the Republic of Bulgaria
General Master Plan for Transport (Master Plan)
The main accents in our activities were related to the Protection of National Interests in the Process of Modernization of the Trans-European Transport Network (TEN-T)
We took an active part in the nearly 3 years long process of revision of the TEN-T Development Guidelines.
On the basis of thorough analyses, we were able to present a convincing rationale for including new routes and nodes in the scope of TEN-T and to defend existing ones.
In the extended network we included all the main directions and nodes of national interest, including the Hemus motorway, in
the map of the main network the road and rail directions on the existing pan-European transport corridors through Bulgaria are fully covered.
Also, as a result of the active negotiations with the European Commission, we added two more routes to the main network: the railway Sofia - Gorna Oryahovitsa - Ruse - Bucharest, the road Sofia - Veliko Tarnovo - Ruse - Bucharest.
Accelerated development of infrastructure projects
OPERATIONAL PROGRAMME TRANSPORT 2007-2013
This is the European programme with the best indicators in Bulgaria.
The grant provided under the programme is over 97% of the programme budget and BGN 1.719 billion have been paid to the beneficiaries, which is almost 44% of the planned funding.
There has been a significant increase in contracted funds.
By July 2009, grant assistance (GFA) amounting to about BGN 439.5 million had been provided, representing 11.2% of the programme budget.
Since then, this amount has increased 8 times and today the granted financial assistance amounts to over 3.807 billion BGN, which is over 97% of the programme budget.
The same is true for the funds disbursed and verified, as well as the contracts concluded.
From 2007 to 31.07.2009 the construction of the first project for the extension of the Sofia metro was started.
In the period from July 2009 until now, tenders have been issued and contractors have been selected for all projects in the railway sector and their implementation has started.
Tendering procedures have been carried out and contractors have been selected for most of the road sector projects.
Work is already underway on the extension of the metro along the section from Blvd. Tsarigradsko shose to Sofia Airport
and in short terms the construction of the section from the district of Sofia will start. Mladost 1 to the Business Park in the district. Mladost 4.
Funding for these two metro sections has already been approved by the European Commission.
In particular, we put into operation the following objects: the Geographical Information System for the needs of the National Railway Infrastructure Company (July 2011) the
first stage of the BULRIS project (18.10.2011).
Lyulin Motorway (15.05.2011)
The newly built Stara Zagora road junction - part of the project for the completion of the Trakia Motorway, (15.10.2011)
Lot 2 of Trakia Motorway from Stara Zagora to Nova Zagora (1.07.2012), 32 km motorway section;
Lot 3 of the motorway from Nova Zagora to Yambol (12.07.2012), 35 km motorway section,
as well as Lot 4.1 Yambol - Zimnitsa, part of Lot 4 of Trakia Motorway with a length of 14.8 km (26.08.2012)
The new metro sections: from. From Mladost 1 to Mladost Blvd. "Tsarigradsko shose" (25.04.2012),
as well as the section from the railway station. Obelia to Blvd. "Cherni Vrah" (31.08.2012)
More than 16 km of newly built railway lines (from the railway line Svilengrad - Turkish border)
Plovdiv - Dimitrovgrad railway line - the first fully modernised railway line with ISPA funds, which allows speeds of 160 km/h.
Expanded depot and repair plant for the capital metro (20.01.2013)
CONCESSIONING
In the period 2009 - 2013 we concluded concession agreements for the following sites:
Vidin-North Port Terminal and Vidin Ferry Terminal
Port terminal "Rosenets"
Port terminal "Burgas East-2"
Port terminal "Lom"
Port terminal "Ruse West"
Vidin-South Port Terminal
In 2013, we expect 5 more concession contracts to be signed for: port terminals "Nessebar", "Ruse-Centre", "Nikopol", "Burgas-West" and railway station "Plovdiv".
The total amount of revenues received from concession activities of MTITC for the period 2009 - 2012 is BGN 74 334 830 excluding VAT.
We have taken a number of measures to improve safety and security in transport, reduce the
harmful impact on the environment,
combat the grey economy
and unfair competition in road transport and the system as a whole,
reform the rail sector,
improve the organisation and management of air, sea and inland waterway transport.
The above measures include the adoption of a number of legislative initiatives creating more favourable conditions for the population and businesses:
Road Transport Act - the adopted amendments are related to:
the regulation of taxi transport;
the imposition of new compulsory administrative measures;
guaranteeing the rights of passengers using bus transport
Law on Road Traffic - the adopted amendments are related to: rules for the imposition and collection of fines for offences detected by technical means and systems;
the special rules for the detection of offences by technical means and video surveillance systems;
the requirements for the electronic payslip are defined;
provisions essential to reduce road casualties;
New requirements for the safety management of road infrastructure are introduced,
as well as road safety audits before the road is put into operation and periodic safety inspections, etc.
Civil Aviation Act - the amendments introduced a security charge
and a noise (environmental) charge;
regulated so-called non-commercial flights.
Merchant Shipping Code - with the adoption of the amendments, it was possible to employ seafarers from EU Member States and third countries on board the ship
Law on Maritime Spaces, Inland Waterways and Ports of the Republic of Bulgaria - changes were introduced in the part on the modernization and expansion of fishing ports.
Railway Transport Act - amendments were adopted to guarantee the rights of passengers and to
designate a person to be responsible for the maintenance of each vehicle before it is put into service.
WE ARE APPLYING AN INTEGRATED MODE FOR THE DEVELOPMENT OF THE TRANSPORT SECTOR (THROUGH THE COMPLAINT PREPARATION, FINANCIAL DEVELOPMENT, THE OPTIMAL REPUBLIC TRANSPORT SCHEME)
Optimization of the existing national transport scheme
Increasing the efficiency and quality of the transport services provided
Strict control of compliance with the requirements for the organization of transport schemes in the country, as well as
bringing transport services closer to the actual needs of the population and business
An integrated approach to the development of the transport system is essential for its sustainability.
We will strive for an integrated and interlinked planning of the development of the different modes of transport, taking into account all aspects of this development - sustainability of investments,
safety, security,
impact on the environment and human health,
balanced regional development,
innovation and intelligent transport systems,
administrative capacity, etc.
We have planned a number of studies to update different areas of existing strategy documents.
On this basis, we will develop a comprehensive strategic document that reflects the principles of the European transport policy set out in the 2011 White Paper and the TEN-T Development Directive, as well as the national documents planning the country's development until 2020.
We will also develop an action plan setting out all the steps and timelines to meet Bulgaria's transport targets.
We will implement intermodality as the most versatile and promising transport system, combining the advantages of different modes of transport, ensuring efficiency, optimal use of resources
and a more favourable impact on the environment.
To ensure access to transport services in all regions of the country, to
improve their quality, and to
prevent unfair competition in the sector, we intend to optimise the existing national transport scheme.
The national transport scheme includes bus routes serving two or more districts.
In order to increase the efficiency and quality of the transport services provided, we intend to carry out a number of activities related to conducting stricter and tighter control of compliance with the requirements for organizing transport schemes in the country, as well as
bringing transport services closer to the actual needs of the population and business.
BASIC MEASURES
Development of a comprehensive strategic document planning the development of the sector for the next ten-year period
Development of an action plan to implement the priorities and measures in the strategy document
Taking legislative initiatives to improve the conditions for the development of intermodal transport in the country
Updating and improving the national transport scheme in the country
and the provision of quality transport services
Strict control of the minimum intervals between the departure times in the timetables of the bus lines and trains on the respective route will CONTINUE THE REFROMMENT IN THE LOWER SECTOR
Rail transport plays an important role in the development of the transport system of the Republic of Bulgaria.
It provides basic infrastructure for the domestic economy
and has a significant impact on our competitiveness.
Unfortunately, the economic crisis has put the financial stability of the Bulgarian railway in serious difficulties.
In an environment of declining traffic over the years, low productivity and poor asset quality, the sector is missing major opportunities.
An efficient and commercially vibrant rail industry will contribute to expanding trade in the region,
integrating into the wider European rail network system.
Rail transport is more competitive than road transport when transport distances are longer and therefore transit traffic represents an important opportunity for rail to regain market share and traffic from road transport.
Bulgaria's interest is to maintain as large a share as possible of the trade between Europe and Turkey
and, with the help of rail transport, to minimize the congestion and greenhouse gas emissions associated with the same traffic by road.
Turkey and Europe also benefit as they reduce their transport costs.
The EU recognises the importance of the rail transit corridors that pass through Bulgaria
and provides significant investment funds for their rehabilitation and modernisation.
In recent years, Bulgaria has implemented successive reforms that have aligned the institutional and legal framework in the sector with that of other EU member states.
Our Government has prepared and launched a 'Rail Sector Reform Programme' designed to address difficult challenges and put the future of the railways on a sustainable footing.
The programme aims to restructure the sector in order to push it towards financial viability
and to introduce the principles of good governance, also taking into account the role of the state.
Some key policies and institutional actions have already been implemented and we are ready to move forward with the rest of the reform plan.
BASIC MEASURES
Successful finalisation of the privatisation of BDZ-To-Varni prevozi EOOD -
Purchase and modernisation of passenger rail vehicles with EU funds -
Concentration of public resources on the most important and valuable services -
Optimisation of the railway network to an adequate size for the needs -
Reorganisation of maintenance activities.
Implementation of specialized software for planning and asset management and maintenance -
Alignment of passenger services to market demand.
Revision of the Public Service Contract with BDZ-Passenger Transport Ltd -
Continuation of the implementation of the restructuring programmes of NC Railway Infrastructure and Hol-Ding BDZ EAD
WE SHOULD MODERNIZE THE ROAD AND RAILWAY INFRASTRUCTURE ON THE CORRIDOR PRINCIPLE AND BUILD PART OF THE INTERMEDIATE TRANSPORTATION NETWORK.
The development of the transport infrastructure of the Republic of Bulgaria is a key factor for the development of the country and the individual regions
and an important condition for increasing the competitiveness of the Bulgarian economy.
In recent years, a number of projects to upgrade major roads and railways have been and are being implemented with EU funds.
We have worked hard to accelerate the absorption of funds and the implementation of projects.
This process should continue by focusing resources on activities that: contribute to the efficient connectivity of the transport network and the removal of bottlenecks; reduce
congestion, noise and pollution levels;
improve safety;
promote the use of environmentally friendly modes of transport;
deploy smart transport solutions;
create more and better jobs, etc.
It is crucial to ensure continuity and logical sequencing of investments, which will ensure the completion of priority areas already invested in.
Emphasis should be placed on the most pressing and urgent needs, taking into account both national and European priorities with a view to obtaining the necessary EU funds.
The projects we will implement will be a continuation of or complement to the projects currently underway, covering mainly the "core" Trans-European Transport Network (which should be fully completed by 2030).
The construction of infrastructure will be carried out in a planned and phased manner with priority given to the so-called "corridor approach".
Priority will also be given to the successful implementation of intermodal terminal projects, given the key role of intermodal transport in optimising transport chains
and limiting the environmental impact of transport.
We will mobilise all possible sources of funding
and try to achieve a high degree of agreement among all stakeholders on the priority and sequencing of the proposed investments.
BASIC MEASURES
Concentrating efforts on the construction of the road and railway route Serbian border - Sofia-Plovdiv-Burgas/Svilengrad - Turkish/Greek border.
Modernization of the railway lines Vidin-Ruska Byala, Sofia-Pernik-Radomir and, restoration of the design parameters of the line Ruse-Varna
Construction of railway junctions Sofia, Plovdiv, Burgas and intermodal terminals in Sofia, Plovdiv and Ruse
Construction of a third metro line in the city of Ruse.
Construction of the Struma Motorway, Hemus Motorway and the Black Sea Motorway (concession)
Improvement of navigation on the Struma River. Danube
TO MODERNIZE PART OF THE COUNTRY'S TRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTURE THROUGH PUBLIC-PRIVATE PARTNERSHIP. TO TAKE OVER THE LINKS TO PORTS AND AIRPORTS.
The specific nature of the process of construction and modernisation of transport infrastructure involves a lengthy stage of preparation and implementation of projects
and requires concentration of significant financial resources with a slow return on investment.
Therefore, attracting additional financial and expert resources from the private sector is a very important prerequisite for maintaining high technological and operational standards of the infrastructure and the services provided.
Public-private partnership as an alternative to public financing is a feasible and very suitable instrument for the development of transport infrastructure.
The most common type of PPP in the sector is the concession.
In recent years, a number of facilities of the country's port and airport network have been concessioned in their entirety or in separate parts (terminals).
Our experience to date shows that leveraging private initiative has achieved that:
improving infrastructure,
provision of modern technologies and equipment for cargo handling and passenger services
and increasing the efficiency and competitiveness of Bulgarian ports and airports.
Very good results have been achieved, the previously set objectives have been met and high efficiency has been reported in the management of the concession sites.
This determines the need for an ongoing, increasingly qualitative and sophisticated process of implementing public-private partnerships for new transport facilities.
In the coming years, we will continue to modernise ports and airports with the help of the private sector.
This is due both to the significant resource intensity of these sites in the context of a shortage of available public capital and to their relatively high attractiveness.
We will also focus on improving the land connections to them, thus creating the conditions for them to become convenient and accessible multimodal hubs.
Public-private partnership mechanisms will also be increasingly applied to
the development of railway junction stations in the country.
BASIC MEASURES
Successful completion of the launched procedures for concession of transport infrastructure facilities, including the port terminals Burgas-West, Nikopol, Ruse-Center and Nessebar, as well as the railway station Plovdiv
Concession of other transport infrastructure facilities in the country, including. Sofia and Balchik airports, Plovdiv airport, Ruse-East and Vidin-Centre port terminals, Varna port, Varna railway station
Effective control over the implementation of the concluded concession contracts for transport infrastructure objects
Improvement of land connections to ports and airports.
Update of the master plans of the main ports
Implementation of other forms of public-private partnership
WE ARE CONTINUING WITH THE IMPLEMENTATION OF INTELLIGENT TRANSPORT SYSTEMS IN THE SECTOR. WE ARE PROMOTING MEASURES TO IMPROVE THE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT OF TRANSPORT
Intelligent transport systems are important for the development of the transport sector
and help to better manage and integrate transport flows,
provide new services,
improve security and safety of transport.
They are a key tool for the efficient use of infrastructure and
for achieving more efficient, safe and environmentally friendly transport.
Their introduction will therefore contribute to improving the overall performance of the transport system.
In line with these basic principles, we aim to promote the implementation of intelligent transport systems in Bulgaria in line with European policy in this area.
We will continue to develop Intelligent Transport Systems projects in rail (ERTMS),
waterborne transport (RIS and VTMIS),
air transport (SESAR)
and road transport (fulfilling the commitments stemming from the Intelligent Transport Systems Directive 2010/40/EU of 7.07.2010).
The sustainable development of the transport sector is one of the main priorities of the national transport policy as well as the European one.
The transport sector has a negative impact on the environment by emitting harmful gas and noise emissions.
For this reason, we will continue to look for ways to curb these negative trends by developing more environmentally friendly modes of transport (rail, water, intermodal, metro),
building quality and compliant infrastructure,
modernizing the transport fleet, and
promoting the use of fuels and energies from alternative and renewable energy sources.
Intelligent Transport Systems are a good innovative solution for a greener transport sector and we will therefore seek to develop these core principles of transport policy in close connection.
BASIC MEASURES
Accelerated deployment of intelligent transport systems across transport modes
Introduction of traffic management, monitoring and control systems in cities and on motorways
Implementation of electronic toll collection systems (so-called "tolls")
Development of a programme of measures to reduce pollution from transport
and reducing noise emissions,
including the promotion of the use of alternative and renewable fuels and energies
Encourage the development of rail, water, intermodal and metro as more environmentally friendly modes of transport
Strict compliance with the polluter pays principle in transport development
We are IMPLEMENTING A TRANSPARENT AND EFFECTIVE MANAGEMENT OF RESOURCES FROM THE EUROPEAN FUND AND THE NATIONAL BUDGET.
WE HAVE THE PRACTICE OF CONSISTENT COMMUNICATION WITH LOCAL AUTHORITIES AND CIVIL SOCIETIES IN THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
The efficient management of financial resources from the EU funds and the national budget is essential for the development of the transport sector in Bulgaria.
We will continue to work at an accelerated pace on the preparation and implementation processes of the infrastructure projects included in the strategic documents, while
and at the same time we will identify new projects to be implemented.
Our policy is to apply clear rules for the preparation, award, implementation and monitoring of projects.
Strict application of procedures and improvement of management systems is a key prerequisite for reliable management of funds
and the implementation of effective control over the spending of funds.
Most important for us is the respect and application of the fundamental principles of publicity, transparency, free competition and equality in the spending of funds and the award of public contracts.
It is essential for us to maintain an ongoing dialogue with citizens, regional and municipal authorities, the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, academia, higher education institutions, NGOs, business representatives, transport associations and all other stakeholders.
This will enable us to draw on the professional experience and expertise of a wide range of specialists in the strategic decision-making process for transport sector development.
and will follow the policy of transparency
and interaction with citizens, industry organizations and business.
BASIC MEASURES
Continuous improvement of the administrative capacity and qualification of the structures working on the absorption of EU funds
Establishment of specialised expert councils under the Minister of Transport, Information Technologies and Communications.
Thematic separation of separate expert councils by mode of transport and in the field of infrastructure projects
and their involvement in the overall activity of developing strategic documents, analyses, draft regulations, project preparation and implementation
Inclusion in the composition of the councils of a wide range of stakeholders - municipal and regional authorities, civic associations, NGOs, the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, academia, trade unions.
Organizing and conducting public debates and seminars on important issues for the development of transport policy with the participation of representatives of specialized expert councils, citizens and businesses
Maintaining an ongoing dialogue with trade unions and active participation in the reform process
13. JUSTICE
JUDICIAL SYSTEM - FAIR AND JUST FOR CITIZENS AND THE PUBLIC
We continue the reform of the judiciary through action to develop the legislative framework.
Several steps are needed to build a modern and accessible judicial system.
The first and most essential step to complete the legislative framework of the judiciary is the introduction of e-justice in civil, administrative and criminal cases.
The experience of European countries proves that trust in the judiciary increases in countries with e-justice because it sharply improves the quality of services provided.
E-justice ensures transparency and accountability,
ensuring citizens have quick and easy access to justice.
A modern court system must ensure speed and the ability to track in real time the progress of a case on equal terms for citizens and businesses.
This is how we see the development of the judicial system in Bulgaria.
Our proposed reform eliminates the possibilities for manipulation, non-transparent allocation of cases, and
document theft through fully electronic case management.
Electronic summons in all types of cases will ensure the speed of the process
and eliminate opportunities for abuse of procedural rights.
Through legislative changes, we will deliver on our commitment to empower citizens to influence and control the criminal justice process through reform and direct jury selection,
ensure the quality and impartiality of trials through reform of forensic expertise.
We continue our initiative for transparent appointments in the judiciary
and incentives for the judiciary to implement the mechanisms we have developed to counter corruption and conflict of interest.
We will work for a balanced distribution of the workload of the magistrates, but we
will also require them to be responsible and
the Supreme Judicial Council (SJC) and the Inspectorate to carry out thorough checks of their work
and to assess their qualities and work objectively.
A special focus of the reform for us is to stimulate the speed of the process by promoting the use of alternative dispute resolution methods, as well as
to improve commercial justice to ensure an attractive investment environment for business.
A successful reform in the judiciary is only one that is acknowledged and consulted with the magistrates and civil society representatives who have long experience in the field of justice.
We are proposing just such a reform, a reform that does not fall short of European standards in this area.
We rely on the transparent process of drafting legal acts
and on the mandatory preparation of a preliminary expert assessment of the impact of draft laws,
especially those affecting the structure and organisation of the judiciary and the judicial process, including internal consistency with existing legislation, analysis of budgetary and administrative resources.
The reform of the judiciary that we are doing today will guarantee for years to come equal application of the law, security and protection of the rights of citizens and businesses.
With the measures we are taking, in three years Bulgaria will be a country with a worthy place in the European judicial space.
A REVISIBLE AND TRANSPARENT JUDICIAL SYSTEM
A TRANSPARENT, ACCESSIBLE JUSTICE SYSTEM THROUGH THE IMPLEMENTATION OF ELECTRONIC JUSTICE
Electronic services in the judiciary are a condition without which it is impossible for citizens and businesses to have quick and easy access to cases.
We are maintaining and building on our initiatives for electronification by introducing electronic access and management of civil, commercial and administrative cases.
Priority is given to the security and freedom of choice of citizens to exercise their procedural rights in the traditional way (on paper), but
we rely on the possibility of remote, unhindered and completely free electronic access to the case.
Following the successful launch of e-justice in administrative and civil cases, we envisage its introduction for criminal cases as well.
We ensure speed and efficiency in the administration of justice by shortening the timeframes for service and circulation of documents and notices in court proceedings, which
will ensure businesses and citizens faster, cheaper and more accessible proceedings:
exercising procedural rights electronically will ensure efficiency and ease of access.
Electronic summons will limit adjournments.
Real-time information on the workload of each magistrate will be available.
Exchanging documents between authorities electronically will put an end to slow procedures.
The electronic archive will solve the problem of theft, manipulation and substitution of evidence and case documents.
Videoconferencing for the examination of the parties, witnesses and experts will ensure speedy proceedings.
The centralised approach will provide financial savings worth millions of leva , legal and information security.
With the introduction of electronic access to the file, it will always be accessible to authorised persons at any time of the day or night.
E-justice builds on the standards for fee waivers provided for in traditional justice by preserving the social safeguards in Article 83 of the Code of Civil Procedure (CCP).
We are introducing an electronic summons system for all types of cases.
This is an expected and adequate measure to speed up the process and address the frequent adjournments and attempts to abuse rights.
In order to prevent and discipline the process, we will put in place mechanisms to effectively hold accountable actors who deliberately delay the process.
We rely on raising the standards for transparency in the work of magistrates
by developing a new system for random distribution of cases with a uniform standard for the entire system
by taking into account not only the number but also the severity of cases, which will exclude the possibility of manipulation of the distribution.
TRANSPARENCY IN THE SELECTION OF PERSONS HOLDING HIGHER JUDICIAL POSITIONS
We continue to rely on transparent election procedures in the judiciary by introducing electronic voting for the election of the members of the SJC.
The direct nomination by each magistrate, introduced in 2012, is complemented by our planned introduction of direct electronic voting for the election of members of the SJC.
Electronic voting ensures the secrecy of the vote and prevents manipulation of the results.
In this way we ensure that the voice of every magistrate can be heard.
We will tailor the direct vote to the established and proven procedures for public hearings and concept presentations by each candidate.
The possibility for civil society organisations and magistrates to ask questions will also be preserved.
shared responsibility
- the role of citizens in the judiciary
Citizens have the opportunity to influence and control the course of the criminal process through direct participation in the consideration and adjudication of criminal cases.
This possibility is currently formal and does not meet the requirements of transparency of the elected persons, competitiveness and public scrutiny.
The institution of the jury will be completely renewed with clear criteria for selection, because each juror has a vote equal to that of the judge in sentencing.
The introduction of direct jury selection will provide a legal basis for more fairness, accountability and control over the work of the court.
The first direct elections of citizens' juries could be held together with the European Parliament elections.
Ensuring transparency in the work of the jury goes through the introduction of random selection in the composition of the jury in individual cases.
We will make this choice in real time, publicly and impartially.
LIMITING CORRUPTION IN THE JUDICIAL SYSTEM
The post-2010 amendments to the Law on Prevention and Disclosure of Conflicts of Interest are a good basis for building on by developing workable internal mechanisms,
institutional and civil control over recusals and the change in the property status of magistrates:
the declaration of property and conflict of interest by each magistrate will be made meaningful through continuous checks and controls on the information declared.
The electronic storage of the declared information will ensure the possibility of real-time checks,
control by citizens and civil society organisations
and periodic analysis of other corruption risks.
we are solving the problem of the materiality of magistrate
On the basis of our analyses and best European practices, we provided the basis for the expert solution of the workload problem in the judiciary.
By introducing e-Justice, we provide an objective opportunity for day-to-day control over the work of individual judicial authorities, as well as
over the work of each magistrate by applying specific measures for an even distribution of the workload.
We proposed an objective way to determine the individual workload of each magistrate as a ratio between the reasonable workload standard set by the SJC and an individual statistical report on the workload of the magistrate, prepared by the respective administrative head in consultation with the magistrate.
EVALUATION OF THE WORK OF EACH AGISTRATE BASED ON THEIR PROFESSIONAL PERFORMANCE
With the adoption of the draft Law on the Judiciary approved by the Council of Ministers, we provided the legal framework for improving the procedures for selection, performance evaluation and career development of magistrates.
The adoption of the law by the next National Assembly is the basis to take the next step - the introduction of a comprehensive concept for permanent and centralised attestation, based on uniform, clear and specific criteria.
The appraisal should objectively assess the individual performance of each magistrate
and be the basis for career advancement based on the assessment of the quality and timeliness of work, compliance with ethical rules and individual workload.
The differentiation based on attestation will allow the system to get rid of those magistrates who do not meet the high professional and ethical standards for work, regardless of the acquired status of irremovability.
Accelerating and Disseminating the Process
A FREE AND OBJECTIVE JUDICIAL SYSTEM THROUGH A NEW CONCEPT FOR JUDICIAL EXPERTISE
One of the clearly identified reasons for the delay of the cases and the doubts about the impartiality of the decisions is due to the unclear criteria for the appointment and selection of the jury.
We envisage a complete rethink of the concept of juries - transparent and clear criteria for selection and appointment, as well as
for inclusion in the lists of experts.
We rely on the centralized approach through the creation of centralized bodies by type of expertise,
unified standards for the form and content of the assessment provided to the court,
guarantees for integrity, impartiality and professionalism of experts,
declaration of conflict of interest and assets in a public electronic register.
It is also mandatory to introduce the principle of random selection of forensic experts and interpreters in real time, in the presence of the parties and during the hearing.
STRENGTHENING EXTENSIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION
The decongestion of the judicial system can also be achieved through the use of alternative means of dispute resolution
by extending the scope of mediation and arbitration procedures.
We propose a legislative extension of mediation especially to cases concerning children's rights, divorce and property relations after the dissolution of marriage, the
introduction of mediation in criminal cases and administrative disputes, as well as the
mediation agreement to be enforceable, so it will be enforceable.
a secure legal framework for citizens and the environment
Introduction of information technology in all relations between citizens and businesses with the administration and the judiciary eLeCTroniZATION OF THE PROPERTY REGISTER
The issue of the electronicisation of the property register has been unresolved for years.
We will initiate the modernisation of the property register by changing the current model.
One possible long-term solution is to move from a personal property register to a property register.
Such a step will lead to order, transparency and easy access, not least to
more security for citizens and legal entities.
The first step for the beginning of the reform is the establishment of a state electronic register of notarized powers of attorney, including powers of attorney for disposing of real estate.
EFFICIENT AND QUICK SERVICE FROM THE JUDICIAL ADMINISTRATION
Providing a one-stop shop for payment of fees by introducing card payments with POS terminals for the judiciary.
REASONING THE ADMINISTRATIVE BURDEN ON THE BIZNESS
We have introduced SMS alert services to prevent theft and fraud of businesses and theft of real estate in order to increase the security in which businesses operate and citizens live.
We will continue to work on upgrading more SMS notification services for merchant registration instructions and indications of irregular documents and/or unpaid government fees.
We have created a de facto single entry point for annual financial statements between the NRA and the Registry Agency (AVp).
For longer-term results and a comprehensive solution to the problem, we have drafted a bill to amend and supplement the Accounting Act and develop software to make it possible for traders to submit their annual financial statements to the NRA, NSI and AVP in the same timeframe in just one place - the NSI.
This law should be resubmitted for consideration by the next National Assembly.
Since 15.02.2013 we have created the possibility for citizens to apply for and receive criminal records electronically.
The next step is to make it easier for citizens abroad to apply for and obtain criminal records through the diplomatic and consular missions of the Republic of Bulgaria around the world.
DEVELOPMENT OF COMMERCIAL LAW FOR THE INVESTMENT AFFAIRS FOR THE BUSINESS
The long-term policy of ensuring an attractive investment environment
is directly related to the need for quick and efficient resolution of commercial disputes through further development of specialization in commercial justice,
profiling of judges,
increasing competence,
organization of the process for speed,
protection of commercial confidentiality and implementation of anti-corruption measures.
E-justice for commercial cases and a concept of commercial insolvency open to the needs of business.
punAtIonAL POLICY, COORDINATIoN WITH CITIZENS' AND LEADING EuROPean StANDARts
SPEED AND EFFECTIVENESS OF THE CRIMINAL PROCESS
Trust in the judiciary is directly dependent on the quality of the criminal justice process.
We will ensure the adoption of a package of laws for a more effective and modern penal policy - a new Penal Code
and a Code of Administrative Offences and Penalties.
We will ensure the strengthening of administrative justice as a guarantee of good governance.
We will reduce formalism in the criminal process by developing the means already in place to expedite the process at the request of the accused and/or the victim and through legislative changes.
An indisputable measure to speed up the process
and discipline the investigating authorities, analogous to the complaint of slowness in the civil process,
is the restoration of the legal possibility under the Code of Criminal Procedure to hear the case in court at the request of the accused if more than two years have elapsed - in the case of a charge of a serious crime, and more than one year - in other cases.
HUMAN RIGHTS AND SOCIALISATION OF RIGHTS
EFFECTIVE INTERNAL MECHANISMS IN VIOLATION OF HUMAN RIGHTS
We have introduced a national compensation mechanism for slow justice, under which the first settlements with Bulgarian citizens have already been paid.
We are transferring the successful practice to other violations of the European Convention on Human Rights (property laws, restitution laws, state and municipal liability laws).
We will create a special mechanism for a preliminary assessment of the compliance of draft laws and draft implementing regulations with both EU law and Bulgaria's rights and obligations under the European Convention on Human Rights.
JUSTICE - CLOSE TO THE CHILD AND RESPONSIBLE TO HIS INTERIENCE
For the first time, a Concept for State Policy in the Field of Child Justice was developed
and a Roadmap for the implementation of its objectives with specific measures, responsible institutions and performance indicators:
a system attuned to the rights and interests of the child,
specialization in the prosecution and the judiciary,
up-to-date international legal standards (including hearing rooms, participation of leading experts, coordination with education and child protection sectors).
We will continue the reform of family law by proposing a comprehensive reform of the child support part, we will improve the regulation of adoption.
Protecting the rights of vulnerable groups
We continue our active policy to protect the rights of vulnerable groups.
The amendments to the Law on the Legal Aid Bureau of March 2013 are only a basis for envisioning the rights of vulnerable groups: victims of domestic violence and trafficking, children and socially disadvantaged citizens.
We are pursuing legislative reform to ensure enhanced protection from domestic violence, including compensation for victims.
A PROvEnTED ANd PREDUCTED LIAbILITY PROCESS
NEW LAW ON NORMATIVE ACTS
Compulsory preparation of a preliminary expert assessment of the impact of draft laws, especially
those affecting the structure and organisation of the judiciary and the judicial process,
including internal consistency with the legislation in force,
analysis of budgetary and administrative resources.
Guarantees for a broad public consultation on draft legislation
and a mandatory ex-post evaluation of the implementation of the act, as well as
a sustainable practice of professional expertise on the compliance of draft legislation with EU law.
14.  ANTI-CORRUPTION, SECURITY, RISK MANAGEMENT AND DISASTER PROTECTION
CONSTANT AND EFFECTIVE FIGHT AGAINST CORRUPTION
Corruption is usually commented on in terms of the economic damage it brings, as well as its full moral reprehensibility.
The greatest damage of corruption goes beyond these arguments - corruption creates an unpredictable business environment,
it makes the state unsafe for investment and life, it
distorts fair competition, it
undermines its international reputation, and
worst of all, corruption erodes the very foundations of statehood, it provides the opportunity to buy the rules in one's favour, it turns rules and order into a facade.
The effective fight against corruption cannot be reduced to a single act or measure.
The pressure against corruption must be constant at all administrative and political levels.
It is a fact that there is no country that has fought corruption completely and forever, but it is also a fact that every modern country takes continuous measures to curb it.
There are two tracks along which the systemic fight against corruption should be pursued,
and the systemic approach requires the two lines of counteraction to be applied in parallel as the only guarantee for a real effect.
First of all, fighting corruption is impossible without a clear political will to do so.
Whatever administrative, regulatory and technical means are used, without political will the state will not have the necessary immune powers.
Only the political will can ensure that all technical measures are adequately implemented,
only the political will can ensure that specific measures are not implemented in a façade and fictitious manner.
In order to have a comprehensive and lasting effect of the anti-corruption measures, it is necessary to implement a package of measures at all levels, such as an instrument of political will
legislation and regulation,
effective administrative structures,
strong control and self-control mechanisms.
In addition to the obligations of the state, the biggest guarantor of low levels of corruption is a strong and critical civil society - informed, intolerant of all forms of corruption, able to exert systematic control and pressure at all levels.
FAIR DISTRIBUTION OF PUBLIC RESOURCES THROUGH PROCUREMENT LAW PROCUREMENT PROCEDURES
According to a number of studies, most of the corruption risks are concentrated in the allocation of public resources through the procedures under the Public Procurement Act.
In this sense, the main focus of efforts will be to ensure fair competition, transparency and best quality at the best price.
The legal framework related to public procurement is fully aligned with European standards in this area.
The main problems are related to the attempts and real opportunities to circumvent the laws, which creates conditions for corruption.
We rely on an approach of full transparency and a real possibility of public control over the procurement process, with
control covering the preparation of the documentation, the award and the implementation phase.
Research shows that most corrupt practices occur in the first and third phases of public procurement.
Undoubtedly, the strongest measure for more transparency in public procurement is the full electronicisation of the process - the so-called e-procurement.
This will ensure not only speed, minimum bureaucratic burden, accessibility, but also
transparency and traceability.
Subjectivism in following procedures will be ruled out.
As an integral part of the e-government implementation process, e-procurement will be a reality within the first 2 years of the mandate.
Applying a centralised approach ensures uniform standards and equal opportunities for all participants in the procedures.
Part of this effort is the introduction of standardised documents for all types of award, which will make it easier for both contracting authorities and tenderers
and reduce irregularities.
TRANSPARENCY IS A GUARANTEE OF EFFECTIVE CIVIL CONTROL
All control bodies of the state are responsible for reducing corruption levels.
Along with state control, the control of citizens, media and NGOs is no less important.
Effective citizen oversight is impossible without ensuring high levels of transparency in all areas of government.
First of all, regulated transparency must be reduced to a procedure that does not depend on anyone's political favour.
In this respect, we envisage extending the practice introduced 2 years ago of publishing on the internet all data related to projects with EU funding, automatically updating the information.
In parallel with the introduction of e-government in all state institutions, including local government institutions, a
similar model will be introduced as publicly available decisions, ordinances, regulations, budget payments, contracts and contractors.
The information thus made available will enable a much more informed and specific civil society in its demands and criticism.
The fact that much of the information is publicly available will limit attempts at unauthorised actions.
OPEN LAWFUL PROCESS
A serious corruption risk is not only concentrated in the current actions of the administration and the implementation of the rules, but also in the process of rule-making itself.
Despite the political opposition of the National Assembly, there is always the danger of "thematic coalitions" promoting interests different from those of the public.
In addition to all additional measures for transparency and citizen participation in the legislative process, the following will be implemented:
mandatory preparation and discussion of the impact assessment of each draft law;
illumination of the legislative process through the adoption of rules/laws on lobbying, since a major problem in the adoption of laws is the lack of transparency about the motivation of each MP who submits a proposal;
ACTIVE INSTITUTIONS AND PUBLIC INTEGRITY TO CORRUPTION
To reduce corrupt practices, compliance with conflict of interest legislation is mandatory
and strict observance of the rules on diversions;
Verification of the information declared and control by the institutions are key to a transparent approach.
The introduction of an electronic identity card as a key measure to ensure transparency in the health care system;
Anti-corruption training programmes in schools and universities;
Campaigns and training for representatives of state institutions, socio-economic partners and business;
Supporting external independent monitoring of the work of institutions;
Motivating business to demand compliance with clear rules;
Cooperation with international institutions in the field of transparency and citizen control;
NO CORRUPTION IN THE JUDICIAL SYSTEM
Society expects an effective policy for the prevention and prosecution of corruption in the judiciary
Corruption continues to erode citizens' trust in the judiciary.
The adoption of the amendments to the Law on Disclosure and Prevention of Conflicts of Interest in 2010 creates a good basis for building on by developing working internal mechanisms for control of conflicts of interest and incompatibility in the judiciary,
institutional and civil control over recusals and changes in the property status of magistrates.
The declaration of assets and conflicts of interest by each magistrate needs to be made meaningful through continuous checks and controls on the information declared by each magistrate.
It is important to build independent capacity
and internal mechanisms for thorough on-the-spot due diligence of the assets of magistrates and of candidates for judicial positions.
A prerequisite for the transparency
and speed of the checks is the electronic storage of the declarations of conflict of interest
and the possibility of real-time checks of the declared circumstances through electronic access to a database of other state bodies.
The ability to control what citizens and civil society organisations declare is key, as is the
ability to periodically analyse other corruption risks.
Establishing a system of citizen control over the investigation of complaints and signals of corruption in the judiciary.
A COUNTRY STRONGER THAN THE FRESH WORLD
A good quality of life is unthinkable in the face of escalating crime
and inadequate institutional responses to disasters and emergencies.
This realised need has been our priority for the last four years.
We are aware that crime cannot be eradicated and the risk of disasters and accidents is unavoidable.
But we have shown that the political will to fight crime restores the power of institutions, as well as
the trust of citizens in the police.
This trend will continue unabated: countering organised and domestic crime,
adequate responses to crises.
FOR THE PROTECTION AGAINST BEATING DANGER
MORE UNIFORMED P OLI-CAIs IN THE MALKIEST PLACES
One of the undisputed achievements of the GERB government since the beginning of its rule (2009-2010) is the "declassification" of the staffing of the Ministry of Interior.
This decisive step towards more transparency in a hitherto closed system allows for management decisions adapted to current challenges, while
while at the same time ensuring timely corrections because of the "side" view of civil society.
For the first time in the institutional history of the Ministry of the Interior, the number of staff was entered in a normative act (Regulations for the Implementation of the Law on the Ministry of the Interior) in January 2010 and was fixed at 61 170 staff.
Subsequently, in two phases, this cadre was reduced by 6,000 to 55,170 at present.
At the same time, the actual number of employees in the Ministry of Interior is about 54,000, and over a period of three years the number of employees in the system of the Ministry of Interior has decreased by 3,000 people.
The trend, which has been pushed through a series of management decisions, outlines a reduction of the administrative apparatus
and a "channeling" of human resources to executive levels, actually conducting police, criminal procedure and rescue activities.
"The 'saturation' of localities with more uniformed police personnel is becoming a categorical imperative that responds most fully to the wishes of local authorities as well.
This trend will be vigorously pursued in the future: through restructuring of posts
and announcement of competitions for state police security personnel, as well as
completion of the policies for restructuring of assistant police officers from district police stations into uniformed personnel.
This will better address the challenges of domestic crime, particularly in smaller settlements:
by recruiting more police officers from the security (uniformed) force and engaging them in countering crime and other offences of the highest intensity.
VideONABLe - DEVELOPMENT OF THE APPLICABLE FIELD FROM THE LARGE TO THE SMALL PLACES
The trend in recent years to build video surveillance systems in key public spaces in the country's major cities has played an undeniable role in curbing criminal attacks (especially theft and robbery), as well as
in the area of prevention.
Moreover, the video surveillance is a clear example of cooperation and collaboration between the local authorities and the Ministry of the Interior
to curb the manifestations of mass crime.
This trend should continue, and it should be targeted at smaller municipalities and localities.
COMMUNITY POLICE - COOPERATION WITH LOCAL AUTHORITIES AND BUILDING IN LOCAL COMMUNITIES
The creation of the possibility to build Municipal Police Units in the municipalities of the Republic of Bulgaria was a major pre-election promise, which was implemented already at the end of 2009 through changes in the legislation.
Immediately thereafter, Municipal Police Units were structured in several of the larger municipalities to protect public order,
security of facilities,
traffic safety, and to
carry out control and administrative punishment activities of local government bodies.
This trend should continue and be coordinated and stimulated in cooperation between the regional units of the Ministry of the Interior and the local government units (especially to the smaller municipal centres).
for fewer cranes and road traffic injuries
WHAT WE ACHIEVED: 2009-2013
The statistics on casualties and trauma on Bulgarian roads over the last four years are clear: the trend is favourable!
The number of people killed in road accidents in 2008 was 1 061 and in 2012 -599.
The reasons for such a positive trend are of course complex: a) improved road infrastructure;
(b) increased fleet security;
(c) increased quality of pre-driver training;
(d) improved administrative control by traffic police authorities;
(e) more effective sanctions, including criminal sanctions (within the meaning of the Criminal Code),
and simplified procedures (within the meaning of the Code of Criminal Procedure) for crimes committed in this respect;
(f) active preventive measures, including a qualitative information campaign conducted jointly with representatives of the non-governmental sector, media, etc.
The results achieved in the last four years deserve a very good evaluation because the statistics in this field are completely objective, do not allow arbitrary manipulation by the subjective factor and show a level of traumatism in 2012 comparable to the situation in the mid-1960s.
MORE TECHNOLOGICAL DEVICES FOR TRAFFIC CONTROL
In 2011, the Road Traffic Act and the Administrative Offences and Penalties Act were amended through a legislative initiative.
For the first time, Bulgarian law adopted technical means to detect administrative violations (in traffic), and
the corresponding sanctions to be imposed without the subjective intervention of man.
This is also a powerful anti-corruption element.
This method of control follows the trend of technology development and has been fully applicable for decades in a number of European countries.
In 2011, a Traffic Safety Fund was also established, which is replenished only by violations detected (and recorded)
and is spent only on traffic safety activities.
In 2012, this fund received sums worth about BGN 14 million.
As of the beginning of 2013, 24 fixed radars and 134 mobile radars are deployed on the territory of the country, and
each violation detected by the devices is documented by a photograph.
This trend will continue in the coming years.
A comprehensive national technical management system, a single control centre, etc. will be established.
Another 150 fixed cameras will be deployed and the
violations detected through them will be fed directly to the national centre.
This approach to expanding the field of technical means of traffic control is not an end in itself!
It pursues the task of reducing traumatism and mortality on Bulgarian roads
and limiting corrupt influences in control activities.
In 2010, a UN General Assembly resolution declared a Decade of Action for Road Safety (2011-2020) and the
European Commission set the ambitious target of reducing road deaths across the EU by 50% between 2011 and 2020.
The set supranational goals are fully achievable on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria!
ON THE COUNTERACTION OF ORGANISED FRAUD
WE WILL CONTINUE TO ACTIVELY FIGHT AGAINST ORGANIZED FRAUD GROUPS AND THEIR STRUGGLES WITH POWER
The legacy of previous administrations of the state (until mid-2009) in the fight against organised crime was extremely severe.
"Breaking" this negative trend - an increase in the drastic manifestations of serious criminal offences: kidnappings for ransom, contract killings, road robberies, etc. - required the mobilisation of all management levels of the Ministry of Interior (including political and professional leadership), as well as of
the executive units of the police.
The main structure in the Ministry of Interior for counteracting organised crime - the GCDOP - was restored.
The duplication of functions between the Ministry of the Interior and SANS was eliminated.
The material and technical base was improved (new buildings of the DGCD, the National Police, etc.).
The implementation of a pro-active policy towards organised crime groups has led to the realisation of the possibility for prominent figures in the criminal world to be brought to justice.
The results undoubtedly lead to the conclusion of a decisive reduction in cases of kidnappings for ransom,
road robberies,
contract killings, etc.
This has led to the creation of a more favourable environment for attracting investment and reassuring business.
This policy of a proactive approach against the representatives of organised crime will continue.
4 200
1 068
210
2010
20 239
2011
13 112
2012
4 393
2010
887
2011
1 048
2012
1 218
Staffing and technical support of the units of the Ministry of Internal Affairs working in conjunction with the specialised prosecution service
The successful counteraction of the manifestations of serious organized crime requires continuous improvement of the knowledge and skills of the Ministry of Interior officers for investigations against such structures.
At the beginning of 2012, the Specialised Criminal Court (first instance and second instance) started functioning
and the corresponding Special Prosecutor's Office.
At the same time, organisational and personnel measures were taken in the Ministry of Interior to ensure the procedural activity of the new Specialised Prosecutor's Office.
This process - of improving the material and technical base
and the organizational culture of the police units in the field of counteracting complex organized criminal activities, will continue at a continuous and unrelenting pace, together with representatives of the Specialized Prosecutor's Office!
for post-conviction proceedings before the court
THE PLACEMENT OF MORE POLICE OFFICIALS IN THE PERFORMANCE OF DISARMING ACTIVITIES
In May 2010, legislative steps were taken to prioritise the police in their criminal procedural work (through amendments to the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure).
It was envisaged that all police officers (outside the circle of investigating police officers) could carry out some of the investigative actions under the Code of Criminal Procedure.
This was accompanied by a large-scale campaign (undertaken jointly with the Prosecutor's Office) to improve the practical skills of officers, as well as
some structural-organisational measures (following a change in the Ministry of Interior Act).
It can be summarised with certainty that this reform is achieving the objectives set at the beginning:
more and more police officers are collecting quality evidence under the Criminal Procedure Code; the
number of pre-trial proceedings concluded outside the legal deadlines has been decisively reduced;
there has also been a serious reduction in the number of investigations returned by the prosecution or the court for further investigation.
This trend - of increasing police officers' knowledge and practical skills in gathering evidence for the criminal justice process - will continue unabated!
In this case - the main emphasis will be placed on knowledge and practical skills in the field of criminal procedure during the initial training.
For this purpose, the equipping of forensic and criminal procedure training halls will continue, the
construction of a training courtroom at the Ministry of Interior Academy will be completed, and a
modern police training ground will be built.
The performance of criminal procedural tasks will be the main criterion for evaluating the performance of police officers and management staff, and
this will be accompanied by appropriate forms of control and methodological activity.
And the so-called operational-intelligence activity will be adapted to a much greater extent to the needs of criminal proceedings,
with the adoption of European models for police intelligence and working with informants being a clear imperative of the reform.
INTEGRATION WITH THE ACTIVITIES OF THE PROSECUTOR'S OFFICE, CIVIL CONFISCATION COMMISSIONS, INTERNATIONAL AUTHORITIES
Better results of pre-trial criminal proceedings are inconceivable without coordination and cooperation with other state bodies that have competence in criminal proceedings,
and other control functions.
The last four years of the management mandate provide good examples of this, especially in the area of mutual access to information sets or the work of joint teams.
This practice will continue.
The main focuses in this respect will be twofold: firstly, the launch and deepening of cooperation with the new Civil Forfeiture Commission; secondly
, the launch of the functioning of the UISC (Uniform Crime Information System).
This comprehensive approach to improving coordination and teamwork in criminal proceedings will have a common result:
more indictments before the judiciary
and more convictions for criminal acts.
FOR MORE ELECTRONIC SERVICES PROVIDED TO CITIZENS BY THE Ministry of Interior
WE WILL ENSURE MORE LESS AND MORE EFFICIENT ELECTRONIC ACCESS FOR EXTERNAL PATIENTS TO MIA BASES
The information-data bases maintained by the Ministry of the Interior are primarily intended to serve internal-agency professional interests.
At the same time, in recent years some of them have been "open" to external users.
The best example of cooperation with other professional guilds and the non-governmental sector is the provision of access to the "Bulgarian Identity Documents" database to notaries.
This was done by taking successive steps:
changing the legal framework,
building access points,
training notaries and assistant notaries,
testing the system and putting it into operation.
Independent experts are adamant: to a large extent the problem of "property fraud" has been solved precisely after this access was granted.
At the beginning of 2013 (according to the Chamber of Notaries), nearly 4,000 attempts at property fraud were prevented in the period since 2010.
Citizens have the opportunity to make electronic inquiries about issued and unreceived personal documents, about the obligations under the traffic ticket (according to the Traffic Act), for the town of. Sofia - possibilities for electronic requests for replacement of the vehicle registration system, for obtaining the vehicle registration system, etc.
An achievable goal for the coming years (by 2015) is to provide electronic access to the Registry of Motor Vehicle Importers' Associations;
provision of electronic services for dealers and users of specialized equipment and armaments; the
establishment and maintenance of an Electronic Identity Registry to provide priority administrative services to citizens with the participation of the Ministry of Interior.
Active participation in the "TRAFFIC FOR PEOPLE" event
The results achieved in recent years on combating trafficking in human beings should be built upon.
At-risk groups - well delineated over the last four years - need increased prevention activities.
The deployment of an extensive volunteer network under the National Commission to Combat Trafficking in Persons is an imperative.
In the next four years, local structures should be set up under the National Commission in all regional centres of the country, as well as in
other sensitive areas (e.g. Sandanski, Svilengrad, etc.) with a high percentage of prostituted women.
Particular attention will be paid to the inclusion of all at-risk groups in various forms of prevention, especially
people in remote areas, as well as
in Roma communities.
FOR THE PROTECTION OF THE TRAFFICKING OF PEOPLE
hAcRlEs ON cRiTvItIes AND TRAfICANTS
It is imperative to build a wider network of shelters for temporary accommodation of victims (especially in Sofia),
and crisis centres.
Conduct an enhanced policy for the reintegration of victims.
The criminal law response to the phenomenon requires profiling of prosecutors in a specialized unit for human trafficking cases with relevant multidisciplinary training.
Some legislative disharmonies (especially in the Health Act and the Social Assistance Act) should be eliminated in the short term, especially in the part on social assistance
and free medical care for victims.
There is also an urgent discussion on the need to establish a Fund for the Support of Victims of Trafficking, as well as
an Independent Rapporteur at national level to counter trafficking in human beings.
on the refoRm of the development services
we will take the initiative for the establishment of laws for the development services to the end
The legacy in terms of the legal basis of the intelligence services has been a heavy one: the services operate without a 'proper' legal basis.
This priority pre-election commitment was about to be fulfilled at the beginning of 2013, when the draft laws on the intelligence services were adopted in the first reading by the National Assembly.
One of the first things the new Bulgarian Parliament should discuss (without delay) are these four projects, as well as
their vote at second reading.
The organisational reforms in line with the new legal rules should be completed within 6 months, including the adoption of the by-laws.
Thus, by the beginning of 2014. By 2014Bulgaria will have modern intelligence services that are fully integrated into the tasks set by the state leadership
and that will fully support management decisions requiring quality intelligence.
UNCONDITIONAL CO-OPERATION WITH THE DOSITIONS COMPANIES
The reform of the intelligence community will not be opposed by the activities of the Files Commission in order to comply strictly and unconditionally with the amendments to the Files Act of early 2013.
This applies not only to the intelligence services, but also to
all other institutions, state bodies and persons who have relevant obligations under the Records Act.
RISK MANAGEMENT AND DISASTER AND EMERGENCY PROTECTION
ESTABLISHMENT OF THE VOLUNTARY PRINCIPLE;ESTABLISHMENT OF VOLUNTARY FORMATIONS IN ALL COMMUNITY PRICES.
The government's mandate has resulted in a profound reform in the field of fire safety and emergencies.
In the summer of 2009, the Ministry of Emergency Situations was abolished and two of its main functional units (Civil Protection and Telephone 112) were incorporated into the Ministry of Interior.
At a later stage, the fire-fighting and civil protection units were integrated into a common General Directorate for Fire Safety and Civil Protection within the Ministry of Interior.
This integration undoubtedly has positive results both in terms of response times to disaster alerts and
practical mechanisms for dealing with disaster situations.
The improvement of the activities of the centres for the Single European Telephone Number "112" also played a positive role.
But rescue needs a new impetus for reform, and in the direction of adopting the voluntary principle as the foundation of this activity.
These are also good European examples.
The start has been made - by developing the relevant legal basis (Strategy for the development of voluntary formations, amendments to the Disaster Protection Act, development and promulgation of the Ordinance on the activities of voluntary formations, etc.).
The establishment of voluntary formations in all municipalities in the country is a fully achievable result in the next government mandate, as
by the end of 2012 such formations have been established in 65 municipalities out of 264, and the process should cover the remaining 199 municipalities.
This means fulfilling the commitment that in the beginning of 2015 all municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria will have volunteer units, which will be trained according to the programs of the Ministry of Interior,
will be provided with appropriate clothing and protective equipment,
and will be on standby to respond to emergencies.
TechniCal A cTiOn of rescue activity
In the last three years, large-scale projects with European funding have been launched to upgrade the outdated technical fund that supports the rescue activities.
This activity will continue through the development of projects and implementation of activities to provide fire and rescue vehicles, mobile laboratories, machinery, equipment and protective equipment, as well as
their even distribution throughout the country.
Sources of funding will be the operational programmes "Regional Development", "Environment", "Administrative Capacity", "Rural Development",
programmes for cross-border cooperation with Romania, Serbia, Greece, Macedonia and Turkey.
Along with this, a fire training ground will be built at the Academy of the Ministry of Interior.
STRENGTHENING THE ROLE OF THE STATE IN PREVENTION AND RISK CONTROL
Climate change poses serious challenges.
According to the scientists' forecasts, Bulgaria is expected to increasingly witness periods of drought, alternating with periods of heavy rainfall, which create a risk of flooding with possible negative impacts on the life and health of the population,
critical infrastructure,
the economy
and the environment.
Forest fires are also on the rise, destroying vegetation, soils and valuable natural sites.
In the past year, serious damage was also caused by earthquakes.
The State has a leading role and responsibility in preventing, managing and overcoming the possible adverse consequences of disasters and accidents.
INTRODUCTION OF THE e-call SERVICE (AUTOMATIC CALL ACTIVATION) TO TELEPHONE 112
The e-Call service enables automatic or manual activation of a call to 112 in the event of a road traffic accident, and is accompanied by automatic transmission of the vehicle coordinates, details of the crashed vehicle and other data.
This undoubtedly reduces the response time to a call and plays a positive role in timely rescue activity.
For this purpose, at the beginning of 2015, the centres at tel. 112 will acquire the functionality to receive and process e-Calls.
In order to improve the formulation of the state policy in the field of disaster protection, a scientific expert group will be established under the Consultative Council of the Council of Ministers.
It will engage the scientific potential of BAS mainly in four areas:
natural risks,
technogenic risks,
information risks
and social risks.
CLEARLY DEFINING AND LIMITING THE RESPONSIBILITIES OF INSTITUTIONS AND OWNERS
We believe that the focus of efforts should be on preventive action to address and limit the impact of risk factors that could trigger disasters.
That is why we will further develop the regulatory framework and ensure a clear definition and delineation of the responsibilities of the institutions, as well as of the
owners of critical infrastructure, of the business sites and residential buildings.
FULL INFORMATION OF RISKS AND IMPACT MEASURES FOR THEIR PREPARATION
Back in 2010, we passed legislation and launched a major flood risk prevention and management project.
Based on the preliminary assessments we have identified areas of significant potential flood risk.
We have started work and will continue with the mapping of these areas, the
creation of a digital model of their topography,
risk assessment, the
development of a national catalogue of measures and national priorities for flood risk management.
TECHNICAL CONTROL OVER NUCLEAR RESEARCH THROUGH A RESPONSIBLE INSTITUTION
By the end of 2015 we will develop flood risk management plans with specific programmes of measures.
In order to strengthen control and eliminate the occurrence of disasters caused by faulty hydraulic structures,
we have developed legislation that we will adopt as a priority and will designate the institution that will carry out regular technical control of dams.
DEVELOPMENT OF THE PILOT SYSTEM FOR THE VISION OF THE NATIONAL PARK AREAS
We have secured significant resourcing to purchase additional equipment to deal with both the effects of flooding and to
extinguish forest fires.
We have built a pilot early warning system on the territory of Pirin National Park for timely response to forest fires, which
will be extended to the territories of other national and nature parks.
NATIONAL SYSTEM FOR WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT AND WATER PROTECTION
Early warning systems are in place along the major transboundary rivers Tundja and Maritza and we have launched the Arda river system.
The national water resources management system, which we have started to build, will provide real-time information and early forecasting of water levels in large and significant water bodies, ensuring
timely response and prevention and mitigation of adverse water impacts.
DEVELOPMENT OF THE EARLY WARNING SYSTEM AND COVERAGE OF THE COUNTRY
The improvement of the activities of the centres for the Single European Telephone Number "112" also played a positive role.
We will complete the early warning system and it will cover the whole territory of the country.
PUBLIC PROTECTION IN DISASTERS AND EMERGENCIES SHOULD CONTINUE TO BE THE MAIN MISSION OF THE FORCES
Protection of the population in disasters and emergencies remains one of the three main missions of the armed forces.
We continue our policy of maintaining on standby modules of the military formations capable of immediate response to disasters and accidents,
planned modernisation of their necessary equipment.
Establishing a NATO crisis management centre
An important task of international importance and prestige
is the certification of the NATO centre with expertise in crisis management and disaster relief.
engaging the scientific potential through research groups in the field of disaster protection
In order to improve the formulation of the state policy in the field of disaster protection, a scientific expert group will be established under the Consultative Council of the Council of Ministers.
It will engage the scientific potential of BAS and other universities and scientific organizations, mainly in four areas:
natural risks,
technogenic risks,
information risks
and social risks.
15. DEFENCE
THE BULGARIAN ARMY CAN DO WHERE OTHERS CAN'T
The government of PP GERB has implemented a complex programme in the field of defence with concrete measures aimed at the evolutionary development of modern, capable and mobile armed forces.
In order to respond adequately to the contemporary challenges and the changed security environment, a
review of the structure of the Armed Forces was conducted in 2010
and the objectives by the end of 2014 and concrete measures to achieve them were set.
The questions of what defence we need were answered
and what defense we can afford.
This realistic picture is set out in the White Paper on Defence adopted by the Parliament and in the Armed Forces Development Plan 2014 approved by the government.
The implementation of this plan continues unabated with the ultimate goal of preserving the necessary military capabilities,
building new ones
and their subsequent evolutionary development and modernization.
the forces of war and effective defence
DEVELOPMENT AND MODERNIZATION OF FORCES
Political will and military expertise have been combined to end the piecemeal reforms,
qualitative criteria for assessing defence capabilities.
THE END OF THE ARMY'S NUMBERS
The completion of the restructuring of the troops and forces by 2014 allows for an end to the reduction in the number of personnel in the armed forces, with
a gradual increase in funds for combat training, modernisation and rearmament,
with capital expenditure rising from 1% in 2010 to 15% at the end of 2014 to account for personnel maintenance costs.
From the data in the graphs of Fig. 1 and Fig. 2, we can see why optimization of the armed forces personnel was done.
The plan for their development until 2014 relies not on numbers, but on
the necessary resources for army modernisation and capability development.
INTEGRATED MINISTRY OF DEFENCE
The development of the functional and structural model of the Ministry of Defence as an integrated defence institution, established during the current mandate, continues.
As a follow-up to the fulfilled election promise of changes to the Military Police Act, the creation of a new Military Police Act,
Reserve Act and
Military Intelligence Act (presented in Parliament)
, relevant amendments to the internal legal framework are to be tabled in order for military and political expertise to work more effectively and coherently under a unified leadership and command, a single vision and a common value system in policies.
Implementing the activities of this activity are the development of core, baseline, and supporting doctrine, as well as
standard operating procedures, instructions, and manuals for tactical formations.
A REALISTIC DEFENCE POLICY CONSISTENT WITH OUR CAPACITIES, ALLIES AND AVAILABLE FINANCIAL RESOURCES
The White Paper on Defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria, adopted in 2010 by a decision of the National Assembly, defines the programmatic framework for the implementation of the defence policy until the end of 2014.
The changes in the geostrategic environment during the current term of our government, as well as the
ongoing changes in NATO and EU defence planning
, necessitate a review and update of the Defence White Paper with a horizon for setting the defence policy guidelines until 2020.
In line with the White Paper on Defence, we established the practice of not using only quantitative criteria to justify military capabilities and set their quality as the main criterion.
A comparison between the current distribution of armed forces personnel by category and the projected distribution after restructuring is shown in Figure 3.
An important focus is maintaining a defence planning policy based on building capabilities to match new risks and threats, and
allocating 1.5% of GDP to defence, which brings us closer to the recommended spending of NATO countries.
DEVELOPMENT OF THE FORCES UNTIL 2020 - ACCESSIBILITY, STABILITY AND SUSTAINABILITY
The Armed Forces Development Plan 2020 does not foresee further cardinal structural changes and reduction of the size of the armed forces.
It relies on the evolutionary development, building on the achievements and modernisation of the single set of armed forces created during the current mandate3.
This process of transformation of the armed forces also relies on the participation of the national defence industry in building the new capabilities, starting with
the implementation of the priority projects of the Investment Plan-Programme for Modernisation of the Armed Forces until 2020.;
decommissioning of old and inefficient weapon systems, aircraft and ships and replacing them with new more efficient, NATO-compatible and
more economical to maintain systems (example - replacement of MiG-29 with a new type of combat aircraft);
final disposal of surplus weapons, equipment, ammunition and assets, as well as
in areas of declining need;
maintenance of a professional army with highly trained personnel,
with a voluntary reserve of the armed forces as a new, more economical way of creating wartime capabilities;
active participation in NATO's Smart Defence initiatives
and the EU's Pooling and Sharing Capabilities initiative.
A review of the implementation of the Investment Plan Programme up to 2020 is foreseen in the context of the severe financial and economic crisis, which has affected capital expenditure funds the most, mainly in the financial provision part of the plan.
FOCUS ON COMBAT TRAINING
On the basis of the adopted normative basis, as well as the strategic and doctrinal documents, the intensification of combat training continues, as well as the
certification of the declared formations for missions and operations.
Joint multinational exercises aimed at enhancing interoperability remain a key priority.
The construction of the battalion battlegroups in the Land Forces is to be completed - mobile and prepared for defence,
population assistance and crisis operations.
Important accents for the improvement of the combat training
are intensifying in the use of joint facilities built with the United States on the territory of the country,
realization of the political ambition for the permanent deployment of the headquarters of the Southeast Europe Brigade on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria.
TRANSPARENCY AND THE FIGHT AGAINST CORRUPTION
SUSTAINABILITY OF ANTI-CORUPTION POLICY
In the fight against corruption, an overall low risk trend has been established and maintained.
The policy of transparency and accountability is a powerful and unequivocal message that corruption will not be tolerated in any form under any future government.
According to the latest research by the NGO Transparency International Bulgaria is among the top 15 countries in the world with the lowest corruption risk in the defence sector.
The overall activities of the MoD are reflected on the Ministry's website, thus maintaining effective civilian control over the armed forces through transparency and accessibility.
During our administration, the final settlement of legacy international contracts worth over BGN 576 million was completed at the end of 2012.
It has been restored in the current mandate and continues to improve the programme management of the budget and its implementation mechanisms.
Criteria are in place to prioritise financial expenditure on programmes and projects.
pResPosAblIty and clarity of thE rAchEdItIes
We have maintained a balance in budget spending and debt accumulation has been prevented.
All this allows to maintain stability, predictability and transparency of the defence spending.
We foresee an increase in capital expenditure as well as
more funds for the repair of existing infrastructure.
The aspiration is to have a 60:25:15 ratio of staff, recurrent and capital expenditure by the end of the period - Figure 4.
This ratio is as close as possible to best practice in defence management in many of our allies
and will allow for optimal personnel sustainment, effective training and, at the same time, ensure the modernisation of the armed forces.
As a result of the reform and with a Ministry of Defence budget of 1.5% of GDP, it is possible to significantly increase the maintenance per serviceman, which
means more modern equipment and weapons,
improved combat training
at a higher cost-effectiveness.
SOCIAL POLICY AND DEVELOPMENT
CAPACIaTiOn oF C oMPEnTiOnS
In the context of the ongoing severe financial and economic crisis, the social compensation of military and civilian personnel has been maintained and the
system of material incentives has been further developed.
AFFIRMING THE SYSTEM OF GOVERNANCE BASED ON ACHIEVED R ESULES
We will concentrate efforts on developing a more social policy in defence
and on meeting the aspiration to increase salaries and compensation, depending on budget possibilities and on the basis of better results.
INCREASE IN THE PAY OF SENIOR AND NATIONAL SERVANTS
We will work to improve the conditions of service in the formations, together with care for all-round security,
including a consistent and gradual increase in the salaries of servicemen and civilians.
A good example in this direction is the increase in the salaries of the military and civilian employees in the beginning of 2013 - between 7 and 10%,
as a consequence of the real structural reforms of the administration, staffs and types of the armed forces and the resulting savings.
Ensuring the retention of the 20 salary compensation upon retirement of military personnel.
Improving working and recreational conditions and
health care for military and civilian personnel, including those in the reserves and reserves, remain a priority of our policy.
IMPROVING THE SOCIAL STATUS OF MILITIArS
The achieved stability and predictability in the armed forces and the structures directly subordinate to the Minister of Defence ensures stability and opportunities for service of the servicemen up to the limiting age for the rank they hold.
The model for personnel development of the armed forces continues to be improved, increasing
transparency and fairness in appointment, reappointment and promotion.
The main method for the rotation of servicemen is the application for vacant posts, which to a large extent objectifies the process of personnel development.
To objectively assess the individual qualities of servicemen, the process of appraisal of servicemen shall be improved.
The top priority remains the use of the competitive principle in procedures for appointments to posts in the administration, military formations and structures of direct subordination.
It is envisaged to expand the system of refresher courses
and increase the administrative capacity of military and civilian personnel, which will greatly facilitate their departure from the armed forces and help them to adapt to civilian life.
A good example in this direction is the inclusion of the profession of "officer" in the list of regulated professions.
This act of the government provides us with opportunities to find a position in state and municipal administration that is commensurate with the qualifications and rank of the exempted servicemen.
Military education and science system
The ultimate goal in improving the military education system is to raise the quality of training and make it the basis for career development
RETURNING THE MILITARY EDUCATION INTO THE CAREER DEVELOPMENT
In order to make more efficient use of the resources allocated to military education and the capabilities of the teaching staff, on the one hand, and the needs of the armed forces, on the other hand,
the structure of military higher education institutions is to be optimised.
The terms of training at the G. С. Rakovski", the National Military University "Vasil Levski" and the Higher Naval School "Nikola Y. Inaddition
to the current model for training cadets and students, new opportunities are being created for the admission and training of soldiers, sergeants and civilians with higher education to acquire military qualifications.
The modern requirements to the learning process require the wider use of information technologies based on WEB-learning, simulators and simulators
and the introduction of modern technologies of teaching and learning.
An important direction for the development of our military education is to place it in a competitive environment with respect to civilian education in our country,
and internationally, through participation in national and international scientific exchanges,
opening new promising and attractive specialties.
There is a need to offer educational services in English and French (official languages in NATO), while increasing the
number of subjects studied for the Bachelor, Master and PhD degrees.
Increasing the effectiveness of applied research for defence,
direct participation in the processes of implementation of the Investment Plan Programme
are expected contributions of military scientific organisations and military universities to accelerate the modernisation and increase the combat readiness of the armed forces.
SUSTAINING THE RESEARCH AND MILITARY PATRIOTIC ORGANISATIONS
INCREASING THE FACILITY OF MILITARY PATRIOTIC AND NON-PATRIOTIC ORGANISATIONS IN THE SECURITY SECTOR
Our focus has always been on military-patriotic unions and NGOs in the security sector.
Pursuant to Article 226, paragraph "m" of the Law of the Ministry of Defence, the leadership of the Ministry actively supports the organizational activities of the unions and participates in their events.
In the last two years, BGN 60 000 have been allocated from the budget of the Ministry of Defence for the activities of the military-patriotic unions.
Solving the problems of the disabled, war victims, war veterans and retired servicemen are and remain our constant concern.
In 2012, BGN 350 000 were spent from the budget of the Ministry of Defence to support the members of these organisations, and in 2013 BGN 700 000 were allocated for them.
A time-sustainable way of interacting with and supporting military-patriotic and non-governmental organizations in the security sector is the envisaged extensive participation of reservists in the military training process in schools.
Another such possibility is the recruitment of reservists to fill posts in military formations on the basis of the Reserve Act and its implementing regulations, the adoption of which is pending.
the international peace and security agenda
TOWARDS THE SECURITY OF OUR COUNTRY WHERE THEY ARE
Today's security environment demands that challenges and threats to our country's security be met far from our territory - where they originate.
BULGARIA CONTINUES TO BE A RELIABLE PARTNER AND AN ACTIVE MEMBER OF NATO AND THE EU
The committed participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in NATO, EU and UN missions and operations is a concern for our own security
and contributes to strengthening international peace and stability.
Along with this, the Bulgarian servicemen in contingents abroad acquire valuable skills for working in a coalition environment, combat experience
and raise the international prestige of the country on a daily basis.
We continue the strict implementation of the adopted "Strategy for the Transformation of the Participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria in the NATO-led International Security Assistance Force in Afghanistan", according to which we are withdrawing our combat formations from Afghanistan by the end of 2014.
CONTINUING PARTICIPATION IN THE INTERNATIONAL PEACE AND SECURITY OPERATIONS
Our participation in the Kosovo Force (KFOR) continues,
in the EU military operation in Bosnia and Herzegovina (EUFOR ALTHEA), which
is a direct contribution to the normalisation of the situation in the Western Balkans.
Our participation in these and other international operations is tailored to the operational needs and resource capabilities of the country.
16. EXTERNAL POLICY
VlAllBulGARia in the protection of the interests of the Bulgarian citizens and society
The success of Bulgarian society is unthinkable without the opening of our country to the world
and its active engagement with regions whose development depends on our own prosperity and security.
In practice, this means three things: returning our country to the centre of the European and transatlantic political community;
expanding Bulgaria's influence in the Balkans, the Black Sea and the Middle East and North Africa region;
better protection and comprehensive support for Bulgarian citizens abroad.
These were the priorities in GERB's foreign policy in the last four years.
During this period we managed to turn Bulgaria from a passive observer into an active participant in the development of European foreign policy:
We turned key points of our positions in the Balkans into pan-European messages towards Macedonia; We
balanced our relations with Serbia and Kosovo; We
convinced NATO member states to give Bosnia and Herzegovina the prospect of NATO membership;
We were one of the first countries to ratify Croatia's accession to the EU; For the first time
in its history, Bulgaria initiated joint intergovernmental meetings with neighbouring countries such as Greece, Turkey and Romania,
and will extend this practice to other partners;
Our country was at the heart of the elaboration of key elements of EU policy towards the countries of the South Caucasus and the Middle East;
We have managed to considerably ease the visa regime and made the mechanism for issuing Bulgarian visas more accessible and more efficient
- as a result of these measures, every year Russian, Ukrainian, Belarusian and tourists from other countries to Bulgarian resorts have increased many times over;
We have taken measures to inform Bulgarian citizens better than ever about their rights and obligations when travelling abroad;
We have also started the long-delayed process of opening up the Foreign Ministry, imposing the rule that our country will not be represented by envoys, connected
We made the start of the competition and attracted the first twenty young diplomats.
PROTECTION OF THE RIGHTS AND SECURITY OF BULGARIAN CITIZENS IN THE COUNTRY
Undoubtedly, one of the main priorities of any modern foreign policy should be the protection and security of its citizens.
The world is increasingly integrated,
Bulgarians are travelling abroad more and more, and
our country is hosting more and more guests and tourists.
In this environment, an undoubted success of the GERB government is the introduction of the "I travel for.." system, where anyone can register and in case of need or emergency receive assistance from the Bulgarian embassy or consulate.
In today's world, unpredictable situations abound.
Over the past four years, we have organized the largest evacuations of Bulgarian citizens caught in crisis situations in Libya, Tunisia, Egypt and Syria.
In a short period of time we helped thousands of our fellow citizens, who were tricked by unscrupulous entrepreneurs to work in Sweden, to return to Bulgaria.
The most difficult moments were the situations with the kidnapped Bulgarian sailors in Somalia, the pilots in Sudan and the Bulgarian doctor arrested by Gaddafi's regime.
The successful handling of these cases is due to the good cooperation between institutions and the good contacts we have established during our governance.
ADOPTION OF THE LAW ON CONSULTANT SERVICES AND CONSULTANT SERVICES
Much more effort is needed to know better our rights and obligations when we travel abroad, to know what help we can count on from the Bulgarian state,
but also to know what we are responsible for.
That is why we initiated the development of the Consular Services and Consular Services Act, which unfortunately we were not able to adopt within the mandate.
Work will continue on this, as well as on developing a broad campaign to ensure public awareness.
IMPLEMENTATION OF ELECTRONIC CONSULTING SERVICES AND MOBILE CONSULTING STATIONS
There are thousands of Bulgarian citizens who turn to our consulates around the world every day and expect fast and correct service.
Despite great resistance, the GERB government managed to start the process of introducing electronic consular services in Bulgarian embassies.
The first phase, which we completed in 2012, allowed for electronic processing of documents and this ultimately sped up the service at the counter.
From now on, the priority will be the full electronicisation of the consular services in the Bulgarian representations abroad.
Alongside this, we plan to introduce a citizens' bill of rights so that citizens know what service they can count on at consulates, as well as
introducing the highest standards of service.
In the last two years, despite budget constraints, we have introduced the first mobile consular stations in the United States.
Priority will be given to the future equipping of all embassies.
This will allow Bulgarian consuls to travel to where our communities are and process documents on the spot, rather than citizens having to travel hundreds of kilometres for one legalisation.
improving access to bulgaria for tourists and investors through visa liberalisation and outsourcing
The more Bulgarian citizens travel abroad, the more foreigners should come to Bulgaria.
This is important not only for tourism and the economy, but
for the development of our country and its recognition as a welcoming country, open to all its friends.
Priorities in this direction will be in several directions.
First and foremost, Bulgaria will actively work towards a visa-free travel agreement between the EU, Russia and Ukraine.
A consensus in the EU is required to resolve this issue.
It is important not only to participate in the debate, but to position the country so that our voice is heard on this topic, which is key for Bulgarian tourism.
We will continue with the expansion of the outsourcing system of Bulgarian visas because it makes them more accessible to third-country nationals.
Countries in the Arabian Gulf, South Africa, China and other countries that we cannot cover entirely with consulates will be covered by the outsourcing system that is used by almost all EU countries.
For the last four years the GERB government has recognised Schengen visas as valid for Bulgaria,
eased visa requirements for some categories of Turkish and other passports, which has
aligned our practice with the European one
and made Bulgaria a more attractive destination.
ACTIVE SEARCH FOR NEW BUSINESS OPPORTUNITIES AND MARKETS FOR BULGARIAN COMPANIES
There is no diplomatic service in the world that is not directly involved in promoting its national industries and brands,
helping its business and expanding markets for its country,
except the Bulgarian one, where the opposite rule has been systematically imposed for 20 years - it is not our job.
The GERB government strongly opposed this understanding.
In recent years, we have begun to lay the foundations of a partnership with both the economic department,
and Bulgarian business.
This process has been extremely difficult because the MFA has systematically removed the resources to work on economic issues.
Therefore, a top priority will be to build capacity together with the Ministry of Economy to develop a foreign economic policy.
RENEWAL OF THE GOVERNMENT'S AGREEMENT WITH THE OTHER PARTIES, DEVELOPMENT OF BRAZILIAN CITIZENS' ACCESS TO THE COUNTRIES WITH CITIZENS
In practice, this means several essential priorities that are already being addressed.
First of all, this is a complete review of the contractual framework of our relations with partner countries that can be both a source of investment and a
market for Bulgarian goods.
The full review means updating agreements and reaching new arrangements to facilitate movement and doing business.
Here it is worth noting that the GERB government raised the issue of visas for the US as one of the obstacles to economic contacts between the two countries.
Although during our administration the US for the first time adopted the practice of giving full 10-year visas to Bulgarian citizens,
we will insist that the issue be resolved in the framework of the discussions on the creation of a free trade area between the EU and the US.
the opening of the european icon to the world
The second priority in this area is to support the expansion of arrangements between the EU and our strategic partners and markets (Brazil, Russia, India, China, Japan, South Africa, Canada, etc.).
Bulgaria, together with the other member states, will continue to be a driving force in opening the European economy to the world.
ESTABLISHMENT OF A SENIOR SCIENTIFIC CAPACITY IN THE INTERNATIONAL MINISTRY OF ECONOMY
The creation of a foreign economic capacity in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs means that, together with the Ministry of Economy, foreign economic issues will be actively included not only in our bilateral dialogue with other countries, but
also in the positions the EU takes towards third countries.
The GERB government was the first government in Bulgaria to declare the problems of Bulgarian business in countries like Ukraine to the European Commission so that they could find support and a solution.
The fourth and fifth priorities are the promotion of our country as an investment and tourist destination, as well as
the promotion of the achievements of Bulgarian culture.
TARGETED POLICY TO SUSTAIN THE BULGARIAN IDENTITIATIVE, ISIC AND CULTURE IN TRADITIONAL AND NEW BULGARIAN COMMUNITIES IN THE REPUBLIC
Supporting the development and integration of Bulgarian communities abroad is one of the main priorities of GERB.
The preservation and revival of the national identity and the cultural and historical heritage of the Bulgarians and the Bulgarian communities abroad means two things.
First of all - active work with the traditional communities, and secondly
- support for the Bulgarian diaspora formed as a result of economic emigration.
In both cases, the main priority is the education of children
as the main factor for preserving the Bulgarian identity.
That is why, despite the severe budget constraints in the last four years, the GERB government has maintained the funding of the "Mother Tongue" programme
and introduced a regulation on the relations between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Education regarding Bulgarian schools abroad.
Other instruments will be actively developed to maintain the link between Bulgaria and our communities abroad, including
through the expansion of state scholarships for higher education in Bulgaria,
support for more Bulgarian cultural centres in countries such as Serbia, Romania, Moldova and Ukraine.
active participation in the development and implementation of europe policy
Bulgaria has a vital interest in a strong European Union.
Bulgaria is vitally interested in the EU's voice being heard in the world.
Bulgaria is vitally interested in our voice being heard clearly in the EU.
Through this trinity, we must succeed in making our European policy have a new quality and dynamism.
For the last four years the GERB government has implemented our country's European policy with the understanding that we cannot afford to
be a "silent presence", not to mention a "Trojan horse"; we cannot afford to
miss important processes and to chase the train when it has already passed us. We cannot afford
to miss important signals which then fall on the head not so much of diplomacy but of the entire Bulgarian people; we cannot afford
not to take what is due to us because of poor organisation and irresponsibility.
Changing everything we do in a European format
is one of the most important achievements during GERB's rule.
We managed to stop a terrible trend - Bulgaria to be more a donor than a beneficiary,
and we defended an increase in European support for Bulgaria in the difficult negotiations for the next European budget framework.
We have succeeded in creating the basis for a genuine European policy
and we will continue to work to develop it and make it a tradition.
ACTIVE AND INFROMED PARTICIPATION IN THE DEBATE ON THE W ORK OF THE VROPEIAN UNION
We will achieve informed participation in the debate on the future of the European Union through adequate training of people,
new organisation of horizontal interaction in the Foreign Ministry
and new rules of inter-ministerial coordination.
We will pay special attention to working with non-governmental and academic organisations to stimulate the study of the EU
and the generation of ideas for Bulgarian policy.
We will strive to ensure that most of our actions are anticipatory, so that we are involved in shaping the decisions that affect us, not just approving and implementing them.
To this end, we expect from the new more permanent representative a complete review of the organisation and the work of the Permanent Representation (PR) and a new style of work.
BETTER COORDINATION AND ADVANCED WORK OF THE COUNCIL ON EVROPEAN ISSUES
We will propose measures to decisively improve internal coordination to make better use of European resources and opportunities.
As a priority, we will improve the work of the European Affairs Council, we
will build an operational mechanism to control processes and decisions
and we will strengthen political work with the different ministries.
In particular, we will improve coordination with their representatives in Brussels and in other Union institutions.
ENGAGING BULGARIAN EMBASSIES IN EU COUNTRIES, IN A NEW WAY AND A REAL PART IN THE DEVELOPMENT OF OUR EUROPEAN POLICY
We will impose a qualitatively different work with Member States.
We will require all ambassadors to be a real part of our European policy machine, not just to react "on demand".
Representation in European capitals will be hard, daily work, both to avoid surprising and conflicting relations and to
use all opportunities to achieve common positions and actions.
ACTIVE REGIONAL POLICY IN SUPPORT OF THE EUROPEAN PERSPECTIVE OF WESTERN BALKANS COUNTRIES IN STRICTLY IMPLEMENTING THE CRITERIA FOR THE STATE OF THE EUROPEAN COURT
The Balkans are our living space and everything that happens here affects us directly.
Relations with our neighbours cannot be placed anywhere other than as a first and constant priority.
They are addressed in any context - bilateral, regional, European, NATO, global, cultural, economic, social and security, in accordance with national interests, European rules of political conduct and the norms of international law.
T h e R e p o r t o f t h e R e s t r i b u t i n g o f t h e B a l k a n d t h e N a t i o n a l a n d N a t i o n a l N a t i o n s
The GERB government has clearly stated our support for the Euro-Russian perspective of all neighbouring countries, but
this support would not be justified if we do not achieve the protection of national interests before the beginning of the negotiation process and during its course.
Our constructive attitude towards solving bilateral problems in the region has been proven, the policy we have pursued is bearing fruit.
The argument about whether we unconditionally or conditionally support a country for EU and NATO membership is not our argument.
We gather and analyse facts, we
talk to all local actors, we
exchange operational information with our partners on the ground, we
use the capacities of all governmental, business and civil society actors
and we make a systematic and targeted policy both bilaterally and in the EU, where we have the initiative to raise the issues on the Balkan agenda.
There is no room here for general talk without facts, for isolated actions without context and follow-up, and most dangerously - for missing important accumulations that could lead to negative developments for us.
FACILITATIoN CoOPERATIoN, INCLUDING ANNUAL Co-OPERATIoNs
We will fundamentally change the way we work with our neighbours in the region in order to be a real carrier and a factor in achieving national goals and interests.
At this moment, Bulgaria is in a historically unique situation and must, with constructiveness and goodwill, but also with persistence, poise and precision, turn this opportunity into a lasting and positive outcome for all.
ESTABLISHMENT OF A NATIONAL LEN O RGAN RESPONSIBLE FOR THE BULGARIAN NATION IN THE COUNTRY
In support of our regional policy, we will establish a national body to deal with Bulgarian heritage abroad in a manner appropriate to the importance of this issue.
hElPING TRANSATlantic CoOPERATION IN NATO's frameworks as a guarantee for Bulgaria's security and development
For Bulgaria, strong and effective transatlantic relations are a matter of vital interest.
We stand for the further development of NATO both as the sole format of collective defence and as a modern instrument to guarantee our security in a dynamic and unpredictable world.
At the same time, we are in favour of a decisive improvement of the interaction between NATO and the EU and the elimination of unnecessary duplication of functions and structures.
We will continue to work for the enlargement of NATO to the countries of the Western Balkans, for
the successful implementation of the exit strategy from Afghanistan
, and for the modernisation of the Partnership for Peace as an effective form of expanding the zone of stability around Europe.
A SUSTAINABLE PRESENCE OF BULGARIA IN INTERNATIONAL ORGANISATIONS
Bulgaria's EU membership requires the most successful inclusion in the multilateral coordination and decision-making mechanisms, as well as the
clear outlining of our country's positions on the issues under discussion.
For GERB the priority will continue to be multilateral cooperation aimed at strengthening the international legal order and global security as key factors contributing to building a peaceful world where
freedom, democracy, equality and human dignity are guaranteed.
The activities of Bulgarian diplomacy in this area will be guided by the principle of the interconnectedness of security, development and human rights.
UN CONDITIONAL CONDITUTION FOR BULGARIA FOR THE UN UN BATTLE
We put forward Bulgaria's candidacy for membership of the UN Human Rights Council.
Our country has never applied for this United Nations body.
Following the successful submission of Bulgaria to the Universal Human Rights Review, we will continue to work towards the realization of our candidacy.
CONTINUED PREPARATION FOR THE SECOND HALF OF 2018.
At the same time, the very intensive preparations for taking over the Presidency of the Council of the EU in the second half of 2018 should start.
Then Bulgaria will assume the rotating presidency of the EU for the first time in its history.
In 2012, together with Estonia, we started our initial preparations for this period.
The GERB government sent young diplomats to Hungary, Poland and Ireland to prepare for the responsible task ahead.
However, the main efforts will be concentrated over the next four years.
ADMISSION OF BULGARIA AS A MEMBER OF THE ORGANIZATION FOR ECONOMIC COOPERATION AND DEVELOPMENT
Bulgaria also confirmed its candidacy for membership of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), which needs to be prepared and defended.
The transfer of our country to this organisation will mean the highest degree of protection of investments in our country
and a guarantee of transparent governance.
17.  E-GOVERNMENT, ADMINISTRATIVE REFORM, NPO
WE CONTINUE TO BUILD A CYBER BULGARIA
Information technology and communications (ITS) shape and define the information society in which we live, work, learn, create, communicate, inform, develop and improve.
Realizing that we are now a society and an economy without borders and restrictions, globalized and all-encompassing, that each one of us is a creator and organizer,
requires our priority attitude towards ITS not only because it is fashionable and popular, but because ITS are a catalyst and a decisive factor for Bulgaria's development.
The European Union has recognised ITS as the means by which Europe can tackle its crisis and problems
and manage to maintain its competitive advantages over the US and Asia.
This is the reason why ITS is enshrined in the EU's new Europe 2020 Strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
One of the three main priorities in this strategy is to build a knowledge-based economy, and
one of the 7 proposed initiatives to achieve this is the Digital Agenda for Europe, known as the Digital Agenda 2020.
The ITS sector in Bulgaria generates around 5% of the country's GDP.
This result is below the EU average.
It has high potential for innovation and export-led economic growth.
The largest number of registered patents in the country is in the Information and Communication Technologies sector (90% of Bulgarian patents for the period 2001-2010).
E-governance is a process that has been slow to develop over the last 10 years and we have restarted.
In our mandate, we have critically analysed legacy systems and issues.
Everything useful and promising we kept, continued to develop and build on.
OBJECTIVES:
In line with the objectives set by the European Union and taking into account the opportunities and specificities for development in Bulgaria, we set the following objectives in the field of ITS:
Priority development of the information society through the creation of a dedicated administrative unit - the Ministry of e-Government or the Information Society.
Continued accelerated development of e-government to meet the indicators set out in the Digital Agenda 2020 to a minimum of 80%.
All municipal centres in Bulgaria to have Next Generation Access.
All state and public institutions (schools, community centres, hospitals, etc.) located in the municipal centres in Bulgaria to be connected in cloud communication infrastructures.
Widespread adoption of the new Internet Protocol IPv6 across state and local government.
Freeing up spectrum for the development of wireless broadband internet applications.
Certification of at least 30% of civil servants with an internationally recognized computer skills certificate.
PRIORITY DEVELOPMENT OF THE INFORMATION SOCIETY
The centralisation of responsibilities related to the development of the information society is a prerequisite for the accelerated and effective use of its opportunities.
For this purpose, we will create a new administrative unit - the Ministry of e-Government or the Ministry of Information Society.
Its functions will include: the conduct of state policy in the field of information technology and electronic communications for the development of the information society;
the conduct of non-state policy in the field of e-government; the
conduct of state policy related to the Single System Integrator and its control;
the conduct of state policy in the field of postal services;
central coordination and control of funds allocated for the development of the information society at the national level (this includes the central
CONTINUING DEVELOPMENT OF ELECTRONIC MANAGEMENT
It not only leads to significant savings, mainly in time, transport, money and nerves.
E-government imposes the necessary discipline in the administration and use of state and public resources,
makes the administration transparent for citizens,
significantly reduces the risk of corrupt practices.
It encompasses and integrates the automation of all management and administrative processes,
allowing to unlock a huge development potential expressed in managerial energy.
1. We have put the user at the centre of e-government because today the services provided by institutions in Bulgaria are organised in such a way that the focus falls on the institutions themselves rather than on people and businesses.
What we have started and will continue to do is to connect the most important electronic registers in Bulgaria in such a way that they exchange data automatically and under clearly defined rules - ECGRAON, the Trade Register, the Property Register, the Register of Motor Vehicles.
We have implemented the pilot project for electronic identification of citizens, which we will build on in the direction of introducing an electronic ID card.
It is the universal means of identification of Bulgarian citizens and facilitates their interaction with the administration.
Additionally, through the e-card we will be able to: sign electronic documents with an electronic signature (applications for electronic administrative services, signing tax returns submitted via the Internet);
enter medical data about the card holder (allergies, blood group and consent for donation) and other e-government applications;
vote conveniently and electronically.
3. We will continue to "teach" the information systems to "talk to each other and understand each other" because, as a result of various projects over the years, separate solutions have been developed that have difficulty "communicating" with each other.
Solving their tasks individually, at the national level, the problem arises of the compatibility of the administrations' systems and the information they have to exchange with each other.
Interoperability in this sense is a key point for the successful implementation of e-government, especially in the part of process centralization
and the introduction of cloud technologies.
The situation is similar with information security.
E-government systems are part of the critical infrastructure of the state and are subject to careful analysis and protection.
4. We will continue to build the "cloud" e-government infrastructure because it is a prerequisite and condition for coordinated development and delivery of e-services.
We have started to build the eGovernment Data Centre, which is connected to the unified communication environment of the public administration.
It should integrate all information resources and systems of e-government, gradually expanding and integrating the services provided by the municipalities.
In 2014 we will complete this "cloud" environment.
It will be reliably protected and redundant and will ensure the secure storage of data on it.
DEVELOPMENT OF NEW GENERATION ADAPTED INTERNET
Our main goal in the coming years is not so much to build new fibre lines, but rather to use the existing fibre infrastructure.
We will use the spare capacity of the state networks - of NKZI, Bulgarian Energy Holding and EA "Electronic Communications Networks and Information Systems" to increase the efficiency of the investments already made in them.
We will continue to build superfast internet access to every location in the country.
People in remote areas of Bulgaria will have equal opportunities with those living in big cities:
they will have access to information; they
will receive all the administrative services they need electronically; they
will be able to communicate with their relatives around the world without leaving their homes.
This will transform our country as electricity and rail infrastructure transformed societies 150 years ago.
1. We will continue to build the unifying (aggregation) layer of the nation's next-generation broadband infrastructure because
next-generation Internet access stimulates demand,
regional development,
e-commerce
, and social inclusion for people.
We already have our first next generation broadband development project.
By the end of 2014, we will connect the 29 sparsely populated municipal centres to the backbone network in the regional cities
and all state and public institutions in them to the state administration network.
We are going to connect all the municipalities in Bulgaria (264) to the fiber optic network of the state administration.
The spare capacity of this network will be made available to businesses (local ISPs) to improve their connectivity to national fibre networks for the benefit of end users.
2. We will continue to ensure connectivity of all central and local institutions to the National Network of Electronic Communications of the State Administration and National Security (NESMDANS), because
this is a prerequisite for the transition to cloud infrastructure
and organization of the information systems of the various institutions.
All schools in Bulgaria will have access to educational data centres, modules and e-content.
Our children will forget paper textbooks and will learn in a modern, accessible and enjoyable way through electronic textbooks.
Many of today's students spend their time on the Internet.
We will continue to use this attachment to new technologies to present them the learning content in a new, interactive and engaging way
(For example, the German teacher could be a German who is somewhere in Germany and teaches the children in a school in, for example, a village. ).
Young people are very successful surfing the web from a variety of devices, but they are reading less and less.
They very quickly find the information they are looking for in a ready, synthesized form, without trying to reach it themselves, thinking logically and coherently.
In the coming years, Bulgarian universities and research institutes will be connected to the international academic community and to each other via a network providing exchange speeds of at least 10 Gbps.
Connected in this way, universities in the country will work on international programmes with similar institutions abroad.
We will continue to connect hospitals to the fiber network to exchange medical data and video information.
As this data is particularly sensitive, it will be securely protected.
This will enable hospitals to invest in equipment and systems for remote diagnosis and treatment.
Doctors will have access to all medical data, tests, X-rays in electronic form around the clock.
In this way, in case of need, for example, doctors from a hospital in Sofia will have access to the medical record of a patient from Devin and will be able to consult their colleagues in Devin without leaving the hospital in Sofia.
3. We will continue to build fixed broadband access to the Internet in sparsely populated and remote areas because,
although about 97% of our country is covered by mobile Internet access, we are last in Europe in the number of fixed lines per capita in sparsely populated areas.
In cooperation with the Rural Development Programme, we will continue the study and analysis of rural areas
and create the conditions for investing in new generation broadband infrastructure.
4. We will continue to create the conditions for the construction of next generation fibre access networks, because in cities other than Sofia, Plovdiv and Varna, the return on investment in such networks is difficult to achieve within a reasonable timeframe.
Given the high estimated value of investment in such networks, we will continue to support increased partnership with the banking sector,
other European investment programmes
and public-private partnerships.
5. We will introduce the new Internet Protocol - IPv6 - across the board, because the addresses of Internet devices worldwide are exhausted, and due to Bulgaria's late inclusion in the global network, we are one of the most affected countries.
Access to the next generation Internet creates its own technological environment, within which we will develop strategic projects with significant contributions.
In European practice, we are already talking about "smart" urban environments,
zones for free wireless internet access,
public video cameras,
"intelligent" transport systems, etc.
DEVELOPMENT OF ELECTRONIC SERVICES
Our electronic communications policy aims to ensure that the public and businesses have easy access to modern, efficient, quality and secure electronic communications services.
This is a necessary condition for Bulgaria's growth in technical and technological terms
and for the creation of long-term conditions for growth.
1. We are consistent and work in line with European priorities because
the electronic communications sector is key to the development of the Digital Single Market
and is a prerequisite for the EU's entry into the digital era.
This is one of the largest markets in Bulgaria with an annual turnover of over BGN 3 billion and a great impact on the business in the country.
We will continue the policy of bringing electronic communications in line with European legislation and standards in the sector, ensuring:
Maintaining conditions for free and effective competition in both the electronic communications and postal markets.
We will turn all stations of "Bulgarian Posts" EAD on the territory of the whole country into an entry point to the information society and e-government;
Encouragement of investments in the development of modern electronic communications infrastructure by creating conditions for effective competition;
Neutrality in terms of the technologies used and related services;
Increased protection of the interests of users of telecommunications services.
On 1.09.2013 we will complete the introduction of digital terrestrial television broadcasting (DVB-T) in Bulgaria and the entire territory of the country will be covered by a digital television signal.
We provided decoding devices to the Bulgarian citizens with the lowest incomes (with special social needs) so that they would not remain isolated after the termination of the analogue TV signal.
2. We will continue to free up spectrum for telecommunications services because it
is needed for the development of wireless broadband applications.
This will lead to a significant increase in investment in these applications.
Wireless broadband applications are suitable for providing broadband Internet access in sparsely populated and remote regions where building fibre infrastructure is not cost-effective.
DEVELOPMENT OF INFORMATION TECHNOLOGIES
Information technology (IT) is strategic for Bulgaria.
They represent a unique opportunity for the country to catch up with the developed economic countries
and to avoid in the future falling into the group of constantly catching up and lagging behind countries.
We will strengthen the confidence of citizens and businesses in the use of e-services, because more and more services and products are emerging on the Internet, provided through the means of e-commerce.
Consumers in Bulgaria are active in using the internet as a source of information, but
according to the indicators we are the last in the EU in the use of internet services.
We will continue to work actively to ensure a high level of cybersecurity and response to computer incidents and crime in line with the measures set by the European Union.
We will continue to work to improve the IT skills of all, because the lack of computer skills is a problem for the whole of Europe, and Bulgaria is second to last before Romania in computer skills at secondary level and above.
Only 27.7% of the population is efficient in basic computer applications, compared to an EU average of 52.5%.
At the same time, an employee's productivity can increase by up to 30% just by improving IT skills.
We will continue to build computing skills that meet the needs of both employers and employees
through well-defined definitions of different levels of computing skills, from beginner to expert in a given field.
In this regard, we will start to enforce standards and certificates recognised and recommended in the EU, such as the ECDL (European Computer Driving License).
We will continue to present Bulgaria as an innovative country suitable for ICT investments because our national IT rating is high thanks to the quality products that the Bulgarian IT industry creates.
Our approach will be different depending on the markets where the Bulgarian IT industry has a chance to perform.
As for the leading countries in Asia, Bulgaria will continue to play the role of a bridge for their products and technologies in Europe, adding further value to them.
Bulgaria still has significant potential in IT.
This is evidenced by our recent history when our country was a leader in electronics and computing.
Bulgarian computers were competitive on the world market and managed complex processes, including use in global space and military programmes.
Just less than a generation ago, Bulgarian scientists and developers successfully measured their strength with advanced countries, such as Japan and the USA, and demonstrated results that are still impressive today.
ADMINISTRATIVE SYSTEM - EFFECTIVE FOR CITIZENS AND BUSINESS
Public administrations are the main instrument for policy implementation.
The quality of their work determines not only how efficient public services are,
but also the quality of life of citizens, the business environment, security, and the
international image of the country.
Moreover, we believe that the quality of institutions,
smart control and regulation /only in the areas where it is needed-
are the factors that can ensure higher growth of the economy and more investment.
REfORmITs ARE NOT AN EXTERNAL EVENT, BUT A PART OF THE EXPERIENCE
We have started the long-delayed reforms in public administration, but we have not been able to complete them.
However: in less than 4 years we have reduced the size of the central administration by almost 14% without changing the quality of their work;
Over 85% of administrations now provide one-stop-shop services;
The vast majority of administrations use the possibilities of the Internet to inform their users;
152 out of 515 administrations provide administrative services electronically;
Almost half of the administrations have quality management systems in place /231 of which 217 use the ISO standard out of 282 administrations;
Electronic document exchange system between central administrations implemented;
The PRIORITY is to create a COMPETENT, UNCORRUPTED, EFFICIENT AND EFFICIENT ADMINISTRATION.
There is a public and political consensus in the country that public services, especially administrative services, need serious reform.
Similar are the conclusions of the reports and analyses prepared by authoritative experts and international institutions.
The completion of the administrative reform over the next 4 years should focus on the following objectives:
better, faster and more accessible services for businesses and citizens;
higher impact in relation to the costs incurred by public administrations;
intervention in the lives and work of citizens and businesses only when the undisputed public interest requires it;
transparency of all actions of the institutions;
possibility for citizen participation in decision-making and in their implementation;
introduction of more self-regulation, especially in the field of business.
A series of actions need to be taken over the next 4 years to realise these objectives:
MORE DEVELOPMENTS AND MORE BENEFITS FROM ELECTRONIC GOVERNANCE TO ELECTRONIC GOVERNANCE
1. Reform in the number, type of administrations and their functions
Continuation of the process of decentralisation of governance;
Consolidation and concentration of administrative structures for better implementation of key policies;
Support to newly established structures and in the implementation of relocation of administrative structures and/or units;
Reorganisation of territorial units of the central administration;
Support to the reform of the regional level of government.
2. Comprehensive introduction of e-government as a universal tool for accessibility,
speed
and transparency
Administrative services MUST be in line with the user's needs
3. Changing the content and number of administrative services following the interest of the user.
Integration of services provided by different administrations, including the provision of integrated administrative services;
Introduction of a new organisation for the provision of services through the creation of single territorial centres for the provision of information and services to citizens by municipalities and by the territorial units of the central government;
Establishment of terminals and centres to provide services to various administrative structures;
Consumer orientation,
Reviewing and re-engineering existing service delivery procedures to shorten timelines and reduce bureaucracy;
Establish uniform practices and procedures for service delivery by municipalities -
development of reference models
and unification of the most important services for citizens and businesses, containing the same requirements such as procedures and documents.
Codifying legislation.
The state MUST MOVE WITH THE COST OF BESIDE
4.  Reducing the number of regulatory modes by 50%.
5.  Reduction of all administrative deadlines by 50% through the use of a fully electronic document workflow and better organisation of work.
6.  Legislative change regulating that the administration must return the paid fee if the service is not provided in time;
7.  Retaining and attracting quality experts in public administrations
through competitive working conditions
and continuous investment in professional qualification
Improvement of the existing forms of career development of employees involved in all pro-processes at all levels of the administration,
and introducing new forms. -
Creating incentives for employee motivation, retention and career development, including through higher pay;
Implementation of programmes for the continuous improvement of employees' qualifications and skills
8.  Introduction of a system for external evaluation of the work of the administrative structures, taking into account the quality of work, speed, transparency and adequacy of all actions.
Link budget subsidies for the relevant administrative structure to the results of the evaluation;
Introduce systems to measure user satisfaction;
open data
9. Raising citizens' awareness of the activities and responsibilities of state institutions
Improving the quality of information in the centralised registers of the central and municipal administrations
and moving fully to electronic registers and register production;
Providing public access to registers, databases and information collected and generated using public means (open data),
the information being used for administrative purposes
to increase the transparency of budget forecasting and planning.
18. SPORT
SPORT FOR ALL
Sport is a social phenomenon and a fundamental factor in improving the physical and mental health of the population.
As a social phenomenon, it is an important part of building a nation's personality, stability and prestige.
Improves people's health and productivity,
ensuring a higher quality of life.
It contributes to social cohesion
and increases the employability of the population.
The European Parliament outlines the importance of sport in the fields of health,
social integration
and education.
It promotes the values of fairness, openness and fair play.
MASSIVE SPORT - AVAILABLE FOR EVERYONE
WE PROMOTE HEALTHY AND VIGATILE ACTIVITY OF PEOPLE, WE CREATE THE CONDITIONS AND OPPORTUNITIES FOR CONSISTENT AND ORGANIZED PRACTICE OF PORT AND SOCIAL TOURISM.
We have built and modernized the sports facilities, but
we know that there is still a lack of appropriate and accessible meeting place, which has a discouraging effect on the practice and development of sport for all.
We have held mass events such as sports month, active walking days, relay laps, cross-country runs, etc., which are useful as propaganda actions, but
do not permanently solve the problem of the health status and physical fitness of the population.
According to Eurobarometer data, Bulgaria ranks last among the EU countries in terms of the level of physical activity of its citizens, with 3 to 5% regularly practicing sport and 58% never participating in sports activities.
Forty-six per cent say that they are not provided with enough opportunities for sport and physical activity where they live.
On this indicator Bulgaria also ranks last among the EU member states.
There is a trend towards an increase in the number of overweight people.
Almost half of the Bulgarians are overweight (49.5%).
WE DEVELOP, FINANCE AND IMPLEMENT PROGRAMMES AND PROJECTS IN THE FIELD OF FREE SPORTS AND SOCIAL TOURISM
An unfavourable trend is the increasing immobility of the adolescent generation - 51% are severely immobile.
We will change this by: implementing programmes and projects in the field of leisure sports
and covering the majority of the population from different social groups
by creating a national standard and criteria for mass sports in Bulgaria.
There is a need for operational synergies to link policies in physical education, sport and social tourism development with education, health, services and recreation policies at regional and national levels by promoting an approach to integrate policies, objectives and activities,
creating conditions and opportunities for people to practice sport in their leisure time,
expression and realization of personal sporting results,
making full use of the available resources - facilities, personnel, etc. for the practice of sport and for the healthy activity of the people.
WE ESTABLISH AND FUND PROGRAMMES FOR THE DEVELOPMENT OF SPORTS ACTIVITIES AT THE REGIONAL LEVEL
WE ARE SURRENDERING NEW 6 5 00 000 FROM THE BST'S MASS SPORTS P rIchOdITES
WE ARE CREATING A NATIONAL STANDART AND CRITERIA FOR MASS SPORTING
WE CREATE CRITERIA FOR THE BUILDING AND MANAGEMENT OF SPORTS FACILITIES
We will achieve this by: dedicating funds from BST revenues to grassroots sport
building a national register for sports infrastructure
active interaction with municipalities and small settlements
building public sports councils, established on a voluntary basis by municipalities.
Coordination with all ministries and administrative structures directly relevant to the health, education, services and recreation of the nation.
Providing criteria for the construction of grassroots sports facilities and the know-how to manage them.
increase sports services,
which will create opportunities for new jobs
and contribution to sustainable economic growth
active presentation and promotion of the implementation of programmes and projects related to the development of physical education, sport and social tourism,
Expanding and facilitating access to information on opportunities for physical activity and sport.
Improving the regulation, rules and procedures for project applications, while respecting the principles of maximum transparency, sustainability and appropriateness in spending.
interaction and mobilisation of local sports clubs.
supporting alternative and new forms of sport activity
expanding and fully exploiting the potential of sports organisations, including the private sector
Encouraging volunteering as a way and means of supporting grassroots sport in the delivery of sporting activities and events
regulating the use of sports facilities - municipal property
creating conditions for the development and promotion of public-private partnerships in the field of sport.
People with disabilities and social groups at risk - socially included and with equal opportunities for exercise and sport
WE CREATE THE CONDITIONS FOR PROMOTING SPECIALIZED LEARNING AND FACILITATING FACILITIES AND SPORTS FOR PERSONS WITH ADAPTED FACILITIES AND ADAPTED SPORTS IN SCHOOLS BY SPECIALISTS IN ADAPTED FACILITATING AND ADAPTED SPORTS
In the countries of the European Union, the activity of people with disabilities and social groups at risk is characterized by a wide range of specialized means, means and forms to ensure an effective corrective and supportive rehabilitation,
active recreation,
meaningful leisure
and full realization in public life.
People with disabilities are found across the age and social range.
Taking care of their exercise and physical activity requires very good coordination between the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Education and Science, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, the municipalities, the sports organisations and last but not least the sports federations.
WE BUILD ADAPTED SPORTS AND FACILITIES IN STATE AND COMMUNITY EDUCATION SCHOOLS FOR CHILDREN WITH SPECIAL NEEDS AND DISABILITIES
To achieve this we will: create an appropriate social climate through accessible and adapted sports facilities
to involve these groups of people in an active and differentiated exercise regime;
develop and expand existing specialised programmes for fulfilment in life through sport
and methodological guidelines for their application at home, in schools, rest stations, camps and medical institutions;
stimulate the production of appropriate equipment, appliances and facilities for sports activities for people with disabilities;
Ensure participation of disadvantaged people in volunteer sports activities
create the necessary conditions for the full participation of students with disabilities in classroom and extracurricular sports activities
as a form of integration and social adaptation of disadvantaged children
Introduce admission for outstanding athletes with disabilities in sports schools and sports classes.
IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE EVROPEAN STRATEGY FOR PEOPLE WITH DISABILITIES, WE MAKE STANDARDS FOR ACCESSIBILITY FOR SPORTS ORGANIZATIONS, FOR SPORTS ACTIVITIES AND EVENTS AND FOR THEIR VENUES OF PERFORMANCE.
sport for learners - an important social factor in the development of young people
Expanding the reach of exercise and sport in schools and colleges will nurture a new generation of parents and professionals promoting physical activity from pre-school age.
Early involvement in physical exercise and sport will help to build the foundations of physical culture and to establish the need for systematic activities at an early age.
European and world practice determine the leading role of sport for students
the most favorable age for the formative impact of physical exercise and sport,
and the complex conditions for conducting an effective educational and training process.
WE ENCOURAGE MOVEMENT IN CHILDREN'S PARENTHOODS AS AN INTEGRAL PART OF CHILDREN'S PERSONAL DEVELOPMENT AND EDUCATION THROUGH THE MEANS AND FORMAT OF PHYSICAL ACTIVITIES AND GAMES.
We will achieve this by: increasing funding for sports for students by transforming funds from the budget of the Ministry of Physical Education and Sport
creating programmes for the renovation of gyms in schools by using the opportunities of the BST and European programmes
in line with EU priorities will be developed guidelines for combining sports training and general education
optimizing the exercise regime in pre-school childcare as an integral part of intellectual and emotional development and education
updating the curriculum, taking into account the health status of students, their physical fitness, interests and preferences for a particular sport
building student sports centres on a municipal basis in accordance with the specifics of the region, traditions and needs of students for the preparation and selection of talented children and directing them to centres of excellence in sports.
increasing cooperation between educational institutions, municipalities and sports organisations.
development of norms for evaluation of the results of the training process - criteria for quality and efficiency
updating the curricula for the subject "Physical Education and Sport"
and supervising the teaching activities
introducing a requirement that physical education and sport classes from grades 1 to 4 be taught by a specialist
promoting and supporting the organisation of student championships and games
creation of "campuses" and use of university unified sports facilities
a proposal to award scholarships to students with prestigious national and international rankings;
sports activities for students as prevention of negative addictions (doping, drugs, electronic games, etc.) in children and adolescents.
Promoting in society and especially among adolescents the bad effects of doping and harmful drugs.
WE PLAN AND BUILD CULTURAL SALOONS IN ALL STATE AND COMMUNITY SCHOOLS WHERE THERE ARE ONE, REMODELING THE EXISTING ones.
WE CREATE BETTER OPPORTUNITIES FOR THE PRACTICING OF SPORT BY STUDENTS THROUGH ACTIVIZING CONTACT AND INTERACT BETWEEN STUDENT SPORT CLUBS, STUDENT COURTS, DEPARTMENTS OF PHYSICAL EDUCATION AND SPORTS AND HIGHER EDUCATION MANAGEMENT AUTHORITIES.
INCREASING THE NUMBER OF SPORTING EVENTS AND THE PARTICIPANTS INVOLVED IN THEM FOR STUDENTS AND STUDENTS IN THE NATIONAL AND INTERNATIONAL SPORTING CALENDAR OF SPORTS ORGANISATIONS WITH AIMS IN THE FIELD OF SPORTS FOR STUDENTS.
SPORT FOR HIGH ACHIEVEMENT - A WAY TO INCREASE THE ACHIEVEMENT OF THE NATION
We will elevate elite sport as a powerful factor against ideological, political, religious and racial discrimination.
Sports achievement - a kind of criterion of human capabilities, a way of social evaluation of the efforts made, national pride.
WE WILL DEVELOP AND CONFIRM A POLICY TO FIGHT DOPING IN SPORT.
We will do this by: skilfully combining centralised and decentralised training;
bringing out children and youth sports as the main reserve of high sportsmanship;
improving the system of criteria and indicators for financial support for sports that have proven their prestigious functions;
Strengthening control over the expenditure of funds earmarked by sports federations for Olympic training;
optimising national team line-ups;
building a new sustainable generation of elite Bulgarian athletes according to new criteria with the implementation of scientific achievements;
improving the legal framework for athletes' transfers;
Accelerating the accreditation of the established doping laboratory;
prevention of the use of illicit substances by young athletes through various awareness programmes;
Building and developing centres of excellence in sport on a national scale;
reconstruction and equipment of a specialized modern hospital for adequate treatment in orthopedics, traumatology and sports medicine with the necessary equipment and tools for diagnosis and prevention;
combating betting and match-fixing in line with EU requirements;
Establishing and equipping a state-of-the-art information centre for fast-tracking information from world-leading practice.
WE ARE PUTTING SPORTS SCIENCE AS A MAJOR REQUIREMENT FOR HIGH SPORTS RESULTS.
we are creating an infOrmation price list
mOdErNiSaTiOn oF sports objects and events - a prEdUcT FOR THE HIGHER FIsCiALLy AGE oF PEOPLE
Formulation of a new policy for the construction of sports facilities to meet the needs of the population for systematic exercise and sport.
We will achieve this through: absorption of funds under European programmes for the modernisation of playgrounds and facilities for mass sports;
inclusion of sports facilities in the integrated regional development plans;
national concept for the development and management of sports infrastructure;
promotion of cooperation between municipalities, sports organisations and the private sector for the development and management of sports facilities;
increasing the efficiency of the operation of sports facilities.
mOdErNISATION OF SPORTS AND FACILITIES THAT WOULD SUPPLY THE NEEDS OF THE PUBLIC FOR SYSTEMATIC SPORTS AND FACILITIES
ESTABLISHMENT OF AN INFROMATION SYSTEM TO MANAGEMENT THE SURVEYED EVROPEAN RESOURCES FOR SPORT
