Parliamentary elections 2013
With MRF for a free and secure Bulgaria!
Platform of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms
For general elections 2013
The Movement for Rights and Freedoms identifies the values of a democratic society, achieved through a nationwide effort, as fundamentally important.
Democracy does not and cannot have an alternative.
Bulgaria made this strategic choice 23 years ago.
GERB's rule has shown that democracy as a system of values is not a poor objective reality.
It turned out that it is possible to implement authoritarian models of power in a constitutional democracy.
The lesson for the Bulgarian democratic community is that the possibility of dictatorship becomes a reality if
civil society is weak,
if the rule of law, the
separation of powers,
rights and freedoms,
realism and pragmatism
have given way to populism, and if
the democratic system and procedure as a whole have been displaced by sole will.
The main problem to be solved by the 2013 parliamentary elections is the definite restoration of democracy in Bulgaria
through the unconditional application of the principle of separation of powers, so
so that no prime minister can henceforth subordinate the legislature to his sole will.
The next Bugarian government should be a function of the National Assembly.
The restoration of democracy is an absolutely compelling condition for the exit from the crisis
and for the implementation of a strategy for Bulgaria's economic development.
The country needs a stable government
- a new one, truly democratic in its essence,
implemented by a government of clear national priorities, backed by
broad public and political support.
DPS's readiness for priority investments,
high incomes and job creation
is linked to a clean environment,
modern storage and processing modules,
recreational and health tourism.
Income policy is not an alternative to financial stability.
The MRF understands financial stability as preserving the currency board, not
as freezing incomes.
The events of recent months have shown that the biggest threat to macroeconomic stability is poverty.
The Movement for Rights and Freedoms defines the objectives of its vision and strategy:
Turning the country's environmental assets into a national resource for development.
Integrating environmental policies, climate
change prevention with adaptation into overall development policies and synergies in sustainable management.
Building and developing a low carbon economy with
new green jobs
and maximising energy efficiency.
De facto liberalisation of the internal energy market.
Removing legislative and information barriers to consumers' right to choose their energy supplier,
protecting consumers from energy monopolies.
Develop and effectively implement a rural-resilience policy that promotes efficient use of resources.
Maintaining the food, feed and renewable energy production base.
Stimulating action to mitigate and adapt to climate change,
protect ecosystems
and combat biodiversity loss.
Support the diversification of economic activity in rural areas so as to
promote balanced territorial development.
Expanding the range of organic, environmentally friendly agricultural products produced in the country, both in terms of geography and
species, which are competitive and in demand on the common European market.
Building and protecting a Bulgarian brand of organic food products.
Stimulating the association of agricultural producers in order to achieve competitive and cost-effective agricultural production with high added value for the domestic market.
Strong support for small and medium-sized businesses through payment security,
effective e-government
and legislated relief.
Turning Bulgaria into a preferred destination with special tourist products,реализиран based on ecological advantages - organic food, mineral waters, environmentally friendly attractions.
Full use of the opportunities of health tourism for the positioning of Bulgaria as a tourist destination - higher quality, added value, uniqueness.
Progressive increase of foreign tourist flow to Bulgaria for preventive, curative and recreational purposes.
Conduct an active regional policy not only to reallocate resources,
but also to generate new resources in accordance with Bulgarian conditions and opportunities through:
Decentralization,
Partnership,
exchange of knowledge, technology and good practices,
networking.
This will add value to Bulgarian regions
and contribute to making them attractive places to live and invest.
Increasing investment in education
and research to reach the EU average, which
would partly guarantee a catching-up effect in technology
and competitiveness of human resources.
In times of crisis, investments in education and science are the most reliable, although their impact will become apparent in the post-crisis period.
The crisis has given rise to the need for a Europe 2020 Strategy and makes its founding principles even more relevant
- for a knowledge economy through investment in knowledge and innovation, for
human resource development and for sustainable,
in the sense of environmentally friendly, development.
The substantive aspect of the reforms should ensure the adequacy of the educational product to the new (also crisis-driven) labour market requirements.
In our opinion, the problem with the deepening disproportion between market need and educational product is the most serious problem of the Bulgarian education system.
The way out is in the updating of the network of specialties and the educational content, as well as
in the modernization of the material and technical base of the schools in accordance with the technological development of the Bulgarian economy and society.
To this end, the financial genocide of BAS and other educational and scientific organizations should stop immediately.
Given our concern for the integrative resources of education and for identity as a condition for integration, the MRF is in favour of a new legal status for the mother tongue in line with European best practices.
Quality education is the key to overcoming the most ugly social phenomenon -
youth unemployment, but which indicator GERB ranked Bulgaria first in the EU.
For the MRF the youth are not only the bright future, but also the present of Bulgaria.
The next Bulgarian government should develop a specific strategy for the youth budget and the EU's common policy instruments.
Implementing social policies to increase employment
and reduce the impact of the crisis on the socially disadvantaged and vulnerable.
Reforming the labour market and achieving equity across age and regional groups.
Providing a functional link between education and the labour market.
Restoring confidence in the health care system by creating conditions for real competition,
effective control
and quality of medical services.
Correction of the financial model - demonopolisation of the health insurance fund,
introduction of a single integrated information system
and a working e-health system,
restoration of the balance and interconnection between the different units of the health system,
avoidance of prevention, screening and early diagnosis as priority principles of modern healthcare.
Focusing on ghetto health-conservation issues.
Reinstatement of subsidies to municipal health facilities located in remote, mountainous and semi-mountainous areas, which have been discontinued over the last three years.
To promote, propagate and valorize national cultural heritage,
ethnic cultural diversity
and contemporary living art.
Digitization of cultural heritage.
Conduct a genuine and deep reform of the security sector in order to implement effective and unimpeded parliamentary and civilian oversight.
Reforming the sector in line with new threats and challenges.
Increase the level of coordination and control.
Optimisation of the structure and activities of the security services with the main criterion for evaluation - effectiveness.
Eliminate the possibility of using special intelligence for political purposes.
Introduction of the financial nexus principle.
Distinguish between the needs of the SSA for crime fighting and those for national security.
Exemption of MDBs from non-essential activities.
Effective fight against organised crime to conviction
and sharp reduction of domestic crime.
Improving the quality of police investigators' skills and performance.
Eliminate police brutality and create trust in the police.
A categorical opening of the security sector to minorities.
Changes in the judiciary: reduction of the parliamentary quota in the Supreme Judicial Council (in case of a constitutional majority).
Changing the model of the SJC from a permanent bureaucratic body to a body meeting in separate sessions.
Separation of the SJC into judicial and prosecutorial colleges when deciding on career issues.
Creation of a single caseload standard for magistrates
and detailed standards for random allocation of cases.
Enhancing the role of the collegial principle by strengthening the role of the general assemblies of judges in the administration of the courts
and making them the central management and decision-making body.
Decentralisation of prosecution.
Facilitating citizens' access to administrative justice by changing local jurisdiction.
An active foreign policy to fulfil partnership obligations as an EU member state
and NATO,
and at the same time an active regional policy in line with national interests.
The ecostrategy for the development of the country also includes a concept of ecology of intercultural dialogue.
This implies a changed understanding of the place and role of minorities in contemporary democratic society.
The MRF proposes a formula for governing the country based on broad political and civic support.
Any political platform is only possible in an open dialogue with citizens.
Every management decision should be subject to a kind of environmental impact assessment, because cleanliness is needed in management as well as in nature.
The rehabilitation of statehood and democracy passes through dialogue with citizens,
an integrated society
and nationally accountable governance.
The MRF clearly sees its role in producing and implementing an alternative to GERB's rule.
The MRF sees its role as a political entity generating stability for the Euro-Atlantic development of the country,
and will resolutely oppose any idea that might cast doubt on Bulgaria's status as a full member of NATO
and the EU.
- Rehabilitating statehood and the rule of law;
- Restoring democracy;
- Strengthening the democratic system by decisively opening it up to effective citizen scrutiny,
- Restoring market relations through effective regulation and anti-trust legislation;
Investment,
Innovative
and environmentally friendly growth
and the economy to provide and employment and income;
- A new regional policy aimed at overcoming disparities in the socio-economic development of the regions;
- Development of family and medium business,
including family farming;
- Maintaining the currency board until the country joins the euro area;
- An integrated society with tolerant ethno-religious relations.
All of this is within the power of a new democratic government of national priorities, with broad political and public consensus behind it.
The MRF calls on all Bulgarian citizens to guarantee together the free will
- a condition for a new,
legitimate,
democratic governance that will lead the country out of the crisis.
With MRF for a free and secure Bulgaria!
