Program of the ATAKA party for the parliamentary elections 2009
Short version
Principles
The ATAKA Party is a Bulgarian nationalist political organization that unites Bulgarians by origin and consciousness.
Nationalists are all those who love and defend their homeland, want national independence and a strong national government.
Bulgarian nationalism differs from other nationalisms in that it is not chauvinistic, it is not aggressive towards other nationalities and countries, and it does not want the conquest of other nations and territories than the original Bulgarian ones.
The motto of the Bulgarian nationalists is the immortal phrase of the Apostle of the Bulgarian freedom Vasil Levski "We do not want the foreign, but we do not give our own!"
The party motto of the Bulgarian nationalists is inscribed on the emblem of the ATAKA party : "To take back Bulgaria!"
Today, facing the elections for the 41st National Assembly, we, the nationalists from the ATAKA party, our sympathizers and supporters say clearly: yes, the motto "To take back Bulgaria!" is even more relevant now, after 20 years of transition, which turned out to be a transition of plundering Bulgaria, a transition of genocide against the Bulgarian people.
The facts show that economically today, in 2008, we have not yet reached the level of 1989 in terms of GDP per capita.
For comparison, in 1989 GDP per capita was $5,710 and in 2007 it was $5,136.
Twenty years of transition to stand still.
Hysterical privatisation of Bulgaria's main national assets, which did not lead to a better functioning economy, to more exports, to a better standard of living for the Bulgarian population.
On the contrary - now, in 2008, we are at the bottom of the EU in terms of income and the stratification between a huge number of poor Bulgarians and a small number of rich ones is increasing.
We also have a huge current account deficit - for 2008 it is 20% of GDP or 7 billion euros.
Imports exceed exports by €20 billion a year.
This means that we are a country of consumption, which does not produce but relies on credit to buy consumer goods.
But this bubble is bursting, this idyll is ending with the global financial crisis.
We need a new economic philosophy and it is anti-globalist, anti-neoliberal, anti-speculative.
The time has come to declare the end of neoliberal speculation about free markets that have self-regulated, to remove from the scene the puppeteers of the virtual capitalist game, to expose the cause of uncontrolled capital fundamentalism and to say that the time of the regulated real economy is coming.
That the experiments with the globalist wave of indiscriminate capitalism are over.
They have led to immense poverty even where there were no poor people before, they have led to the destruction of whole sectors of public life such as ecology, social stability, health and education in many nations.
The Bulgarian people have suffered this blow of neoliberal capitalism and cannot take any more blows.
The Bulgarian people need an economy that is strategically planned, that
is nationally sovereign within the open world of today, that
is socially just
and state regulated
so that the education, health and pension sectors are protected and provide equal access to health services to every Bulgarian and the opportunity for basic free education - at the expense of the state budget.
Some may call this left wing politics, I say : the left and right game is silly and distracting.
Isn't the party that calls itself socialist today implementing the most right-wing policy in terms of taxation since 1989?
Why does the speculative division of political forces into right and left continue, as they all in the previous governments implemented the anti-social policy of the IMF and the World Bank, called by the 2001 Nobel Prize winner in economics Joseph Stiglitz - colonial and genocidal policy.
Introduction of family income taxation.
Introduction of a transfer tax on offshore companies.
Income-related taxes, abolition of the flat tax and preferential taxes for corporations.
Abolition of excise duty on domestic alcohol.
Reducing the tax return to a postcard without the need for the current horrendous bureaucracy.
As a tax philosophy ATAKA is for tax cuts for the poorer at the expense of taxes taken by the richer.
Now the situation is the opposite - proportionally measured the poor part of the Bulgarian people contributes more to the treasury than the rich.
Macroeconomically ATAKA is for creating a working and predictable environment for business in Bulgaria.
For this we need: to remove administrative and legislative obstacles to entrepreneurs in Bulgaria.
To ease the licensing regime to a minimum.
Reducing time limits for obtaining permits.
Precise and clear specification of the required database.
Introduction of test licensing.
It is necessary to create schemes for productive investment - joint stock companies with production and investment purpose, which should be built with both state and private participation, excluding the monopoly.
ATAKA is in favour of ensuring priority to Bulgarian business in obtaining state contracts, participation in privatisation and infrastructure projects.
Now Turkish companies are building the main highways in the country.
ATAKA is for protecting Bulgarian production from low-quality dumped imports.
ATAKA is for the restoration of the lost Bulgarian markets outside the EU.
ATAKA is for an active state policy to advertise Bulgarian goods and services with money from the budget.
Regarding the budget policy ATAKA is for a transparent budget policy, for the distribution of budget funds in favor of the Bulgarian society with priorities - social sphere, health and pensions.
ATAKA is for strict control of the budget funds and for the introduction of new sanctions for their misuse.
The National Assembly should have a decisive say in the drafting and distribution of the budget, not the government entirely as now.
ATAKA is in favour of limiting speculative financial investments of a temporary spontaneous nature, which usually quickly drain national product outside the country.
ATAKA will definitely work for:
Reviewing and reversing privatisation deals that have harmed Bulgaria.
Revision and termination of concession deals concluded under unfavourable conditions for our country.
Repeal all so-called land swaps and restore the status quo before the swaps.
ATAKA will work for:
Development of a unified information system for the customs, the National Social Security Institute, the tax administration and the services in the country.
To remove Bulgaria's unprofitable dependence on the IMF, the World Bank and other international organisations, which have limited the sovereignty of the Bulgarian state and led to the destruction of the public sector, health and education.
ATAKA is for an active foreign policy to collect the debts to Bulgaria, totaling over 15 billion dollars of countries such as Libya, Iraq, Nicaragua, Turkey and others:
The creation of a sustainable , predictable system of economy, with the predominance of the real , physical economy and a clear social commitment of the state, and not the virtual speculative capital game working for a small oligarchic power.
Agriculture and farming In the field of agriculture ATAKA is for
A complete revision of the return of lands to their true owners or their heirs.
Court and stiff penalties for those involved in fraud, perjury and falsification of land ownership documents.
Full audit of all transactions related to state and municipal agricultural land and forest land - swaps, concessions, leases, purchase and sale, privatization transactions.
Change in the forest law - forests to be only public or exclusively state property.
The status of forest land should be changed only in exceptional need - for military sites, sites of national economic importance, communications and infrastructure.
Change in the agricultural land law.
State, municipalities and individuals to have ownership rights.
Companies to be able to farm land only for rent.
Absolute ban on changing the status of pastures and meadows.
Repeal the current law on cooperatives, which contributed to the destruction and plunder of agriculture, and create a new law.
More is needed:
Creation of a special extra-governmental agency for EU funds.
Precise criteria determining which producer receives which subsidies.
Creation of a special law to encourage farmers - fuel, electricity, fodder, fertiliser and water used by farmers to be exempt from VAT and excise duties.
For every kilo of produce exported outside the EU, extra money should be paid to producers, not traders.
Change in the VAT Act - milk, wheat, eggs, fish, fruit and vegetables produced in Bulgaria should not be subject to VAT and the rate on other Bulgarian products should be 5%.
Import products to be traditionally taxed with VAT and excise duties.
ATAKA is for a correction in the customs tariffs - Agricultural production imported to Bulgaria from non-EU countries to be taxed with 100% on the current market price of our production.
ATAKA considers more:
Creation of a special law for agricultural institutes, which are currently subject to plunder and destruction
Creation of a law for agricultural branch organisations on the basis of free and voluntary association.
This law should regulate the following powers of the national agricultural organization: permanent attendance at the meetings of the Committee on Agriculture in the National Assembly and the right to an advisory vote.
Right to speak during debates in the National Assembly on agriculture.
Legislative initiative on agriculture.
Representation in the EU funds agency.
Creation of a national agricultural exchange law with the main objectives of: guaranteeing the purchase of all producers' produce at real market prices according to quality.
This will eliminate the long chain of resellers and ensure a minimal gap between farm gate prices and the retail network.
Ensuring the supply of machinery, equipment, fuel, fertilizers, chemicals, feed and consumables to any producer at preferential prices.
Ensuring the export of production.
As a summary - ATAKA believes that it is necessary to review all the agreements with the EU for quotas of agricultural production, because they do not correspond to the real possibilities for production of Bulgaria and harm our country.
Demography and health
The main issue for the ATAKA party is the demographic issue.
We are in a demographic crisis, which means the danger of the extinction of our nation.
As nationalists, we believe that the most important issue facing a responsible government is solving this problem.
The birth rate in Bulgaria is just over 70 000 people per year, and only one third of this growth is of Bulgarian ethnic origin.
About 37 percent of Bulgarian families are without children.
The current state policy does not stimulate a birth rate that increases and enriches our society with education, culture, professional skills.
Today's state policy in the field of demography stimulates the ethnicisation of society, the disintegration of different groups.
The state policy today in this respect is symbolic and does not make demands on the quality of the children brought up, and this leads to irresponsibility in the upbringing of children from certain groups, an increase in the contingent of illiterate, low-cultural, criminal layers of society, an increase in prostitution , drug addiction and theft among adolescents from these groups.
In practice, the Bulgarian state is now stimulating the development of vices and processes that are terribly dangerous for the nation and that will lead to the disintegration of our national identity if urgent measures are not taken.
What are they? ATAKA is for.
Parents not to engage in crime, begging, prostitution, theft.
Monthly monitoring of the status of child care.
Parents who do not have conditions for raising children and do not show reliable control over them are deprived of parental rights.
Allowances are paid to mothers until the children start school, after which they are converted into student grants and paid according to the student's performance.
Parents receiving benefits incorrectly or fraudulently return them to the state.
The necessary state and legislative measures to address the demographic issue include: the establishment of a state and public fund to support large families.
Accelerated and facilitated granting of Bulgarian citizenship to young Bulgarian families now living outside the borders of their homeland.
Incentives and facilities for land settlement and credit for Bulgarians from Bessarabia, Macedonia, the Western suburbs and other areas outside the borders of the homeland.
The health of the nation is a problem directly related to demography.
The health system is fully covered by the state budget under ATAKA's government, the criminal privatisation of hospital and polyclinic buildings is stopped, the medicines for the chronically ill as well as for pensioners and children will be 100% covered by the state budget.
The nation's health resource will be as much as it needs to be in order for every Bulgarian citizen to receive budget-paid health care.
This will be done with reallocation of money from other areas and cash flows brought to light.
Pensions
The pension issue is the number one problem for ATAKA Today , we have 2,5 million pensioners, one third of whom are below the poverty line.
This abnormal situation is a consequence of the plunder of Bulgaria, which was called privatisation.
Our national assets worth tens of billions of euros have been sold for pennies and instead of creating several pension funds guaranteed by the state today the elderly in Bulgaria rely on the handouts of the next government.
ATAKA believes that a radical reform of the pension system is needed.
Firstly, by removing the unfair points system.
There needs to be a sharp jump in the level of pensions from the lowest to the middle.
This can also be done quickly and sensitively with the current means.
The money is there, but it needs to be channeled in the right direction.
A cut in parasitic state structures could free up to about 2-3 billion leva a year, which together with the so-called surpluses and the money blocked in reserve could double the lowest and average pensions immediately.
With a policy of raising incomes without inflation in the next 4-5 years we can reach comparable to European levels of pension income.
Raising incomes in the pension area should be combined with modernisation of the system and revision of the Social Security Code.
If we do not do this now, we will be stuck in a severe pension crisis and fixing the problem will require much more effort and resources.
A key focus of our 2009 election programme is our firm intention to tackle organised crime - we call this part of the programme Operation Haika.
In this operation ATAKA will decapitate and liquidate the gangs through a special anti-robbery law and ruthless actions of the authorities.
There is no bandit group stronger than a state.
Related to Operation Haika is ATAKA's intention to confiscate property and capital of people who cannot prove their legitimate origin.
This will add huge funds to the treasury.
The money from stolen excise, VAT and customs duties is over 2 billion a year, which is now being stolen by oligarchs under political protection.
ATAKA will deal without leniency with the oligarchs and will return the stolen money to the Bulgarian people
No to the Islamization of Bulgaria!
And finally - ATAKA sets as its main goal the prevention of the Islamization of Bulgaria, which is now going on with a powerful support from external factors hostile to our country.
We will pass special laws regulating the construction of non-Christian religious temples.
We will introduce a law on the Bulgarian language that will reject any possibility of speculation with the constitutional provision that the Bulgarian language is the official language in Bulgaria and there is no dispute on this issue.
We will stop legislatively and administratively the attempts to dismember Bulgaria into enclaves and to present it as a mechanical collection of ethnicities and religions.
ATAKA is for the recognition of the fundamental, nation-building role of Orthodoxy in our country.
ATAKA has prepared a law, which today's majority stops, but in the next parliament we will adopt it, which returns with a single and unconditional act the properties of the Bulgarian Orthodox Church, to stop afterwards the abuse of this life-giving Bulgarian nationality institution.
ATAKA will be a guarantor in the next government that the Bulgarian national interest will not be trampled.
