On all sides they try to convince us that the distinction between right and left is a useless anachronism.
For all of us who work together in the Coalition of the Radical Left - Unitary Vote, the presence of the left is not only a modern necessity, but also a useful ally of all those who struggle to defend their rights, for a humane present and a brighter future.
The rallying of the forces of the Left is the hope for effective resistance to the present bipolar political scene.
The combination "Coalition of the Radical Left - Unity Vote" creates the alternative proposal and possibility to express this resistance in the upcoming battle of the elections for the national Parliament.
As a party, without dogmatisms and restrictions, it defends the right to public presence, intervention and political perspective of the left.
It is the different option in the pursuit of the six-party system of the country's political life.
It is the way out of the prevalence of the consensual bipolar, two-party system; it
wants to express politically especially the youth
and the workers,
all those who are affected by the consequences of neoliberal policies
and rally in the movements against neoliberal globalisation and war.
The period of post-independence seems to close with the hopes it had given birth to weak.
The distance between social reality and political processes is growing.
New extra-institutional interlocking powers intervene in politics.
The commercialisation of collective goods prevails
and the perception that convergence towards neoliberalism is supposedly a political one-way street.
Even more so now, with the new leadership of PASOK and the new political scene, it is sought to substitute politics with virtual reality, with polls, with the organic intertwining of political and economic interests.
This development undermines any possibility of meaningful citizen participation, even if it is said to be aimed at it.
It produces political subjects and consumers.
It seeks to stealthily gain consensus for unpopular measures and for the parties that support and implement them through their rotation in government.
We are witnessing the programmatic convergence of PASOK and ND on the basis of neoliberalism, which is increasingly based, as it is internationally, on the idea that the Left-Right opposition has supposedly been overcome.
The Left Party that we form is the force that can reverse this situation.
Because it deeply believes that a radical change of the political system and a change of the social and political correlations in favour of the forces of labour and the Left is needed.
On the contrary, PASOK and the New Democracy are seeking, in every way possible, instead of change, the variation and restoration of the system.
They proved it by their consent to the recent Constitutional Review, they want to reduce our political life to a meaningless confrontation with a communicative cover, with messianisms, to facilitate the implementation of an unpopular policy.
They promote television democracy, they
manage the succession.
The dilemma posed to voters by PASOK and ND is fake, because the policies of both parties promise the one-way street of neoliberal adjustment and transformation.
This is why they do not want the Left on their feet and systematically try to marginalise it or show it as being integrated and fluidised in centre-left nebulas.
The Left is the other option that cancels out their false dilemma.
The real dilemma of the elections, the real challenge for the citizens is whether or not a strong force of the Left will emerge in these elections, a force that speaks and acts responsibly on behalf of the Left, of radical ecology and of the Social Movements.
Whether the Left, which is distinct and competitive at all levels to the politics of neoliberalism and the forces of the two-party system, will emerge strengthened.
A different world is possible.
This is a critical period for the whole world.
Today, we all have bitter experience of the application of the doctrine of perpetual war under the pretext of the "anti-terrorist campaign".
We have all watched the so-called "humanitarian" wars.
The Bush doctrine is causing shock and awe in many parts of the world,
while the Guantanamo Bay concentration camp is attempting to become an "example to follow", even for the European legal culture.
We are experiencing the undermining of democratic and social achievements and repression in every manifestation of social life.
All over the world, instead of fighting poverty and inequalities, a large part of humanity is plunged into an abyss of poverty and abandonment in the name of unsustainable "market rules" and neoliberal globalisation.
Instead of a more democratic, creative and participatory world, citizens are experiencing increasing exclusion from decision-making centres.
Critical choices about their fate are made in extra-institutional parapolitical centres and transnational organisations without democratic legitimacy.
We were told that history is over and that capitalism can guarantee peace, equality, justice.
But we have witnessed the unprecedented ferocity with which they are organising the new order.
We have experienced the annihilation of great conquests of the working class and the popular strata;
the imperialist invasion and occupation of independent countries.
And we have seen millions of people around the world respond to it with their struggles against war,
poverty and exploitation.
In this international context, we coordinate our action and take an active part in the international movement against neoliberal globalisation and the wars that accompany it.
We participate in the respective political initiatives, the social resistances that are developing in our country.
In all these mobilisations, in every small and big struggle, we all became aware of the need for the social forces that are affected and threatened by neoliberal policies to send a message in every direction: OURSELVES!
With neoliberalism driving ever wider social strata, ever greater numbers of citizens into poverty, social exclusion and marginalisation.
With contempt for the people's problems, the reduction of conquests and the suppression of social demands.
With the unequal distribution of wealth and the constant redistribution at the expense of wage labour and the popular strata.
With television democracy and the interlocking interests that dominate the information industry.
With the selling off of public property, the
transaction and corruption.
With the contempt and devaluation of the citizen, the deconstruction of democracy
and the reduction of rights.
By accepting the logic of the New Order and identifying with US policy in our region.
In the face of all that imprisons our lives and our hopes, we organise our intervention and our resistance.
In the suffocating bipartisan framework that is being formed, together with the organized and disinterested forces of the Left we form the combination "Coalition of the Radical Left - Enotic Votofiltio".
We insist on the left, we insist on the radical, we are inspired by the resistances of the social movements.
We defend the right of peoples to determine their own destinies.
We insist on defending social and political rights.
We insist on solidarity as a social project.
We insist on striving for a livable balance between man and nature and the environment.
We insist that people are above profits.
We insist on pluralism and respect for the diversity of cultures, people, ideas and opinions.
We insist on gender equality.
We insist on our opposition to xenophobia, nationalism, sexism and all forms of racism.
We insist that history is not over, just as the Left is not over.
The young people who are called upon by the real culprits to apologise for being outside the education system and the labour market, the young people who feel most of all the alienation from politics, the uncertainty and insecurity about their present and future.
The unemployed,
those excluded from the economic, social and political life of the country, the unjustly treated in this society, but also those who do not tolerate these injustices and exclusions.
The workers who are now living the deterioration of working conditions in an unprecedented uncertainty about their labour and social future, who are experiencing the effects of unprecedented insecurity and the consequences of the continuous deterioration of the social services provided in health and education.
Women who pay the cost of unemployment and experience inequality in their daily lives, through the double oppression at work and in the family that reproduces the stereotypes of our male-dominated society.
Women who are driven to the margins of politics and social activity.
The migrants who struggle to survive in our country in an inhospitable environment, where xenophobia and social racism are cultivated.
Citizens who refuse the standards of life imposed by commercialisation, consumer society, cultural degradation.
Citizens who do not accept the logic of war,
racism, discrimination
and political arrogance.
With the Left of struggle and hope.
Greek society needs the Left.
To defend and protect itself
To resist and claim
To dream and regain the right to hope
For the first time since the collapse of "actually existing socialism" and the prevalence of globalised neoliberalism, an attempt is being made in our country for a common political response by the forces of the Left.
Our political proposal wants and presupposes the activation of the left, creative dialogue, joint action, political intervention.
We do not have the new identity of the Left ready.
We seek it by actively participating in social movements, seeking convergence with radical ecology.
We claim to formulate a new left discourse.
We are fighting for political and social relations more favourable to workers,
for sensitive and active citizens,
for the Left.
We seek all this with the presence and participation and not in the absence of the left, the
workers, the
active citizens and the most vital forces of society.
We address all citizens, who fought with us against the manifestations of neoliberal policies and achieved victories:
In the social security bill
in the cancellation of the Olympic projects that were destroying the environment and the urban fabric of the cities;
in the repulsion of authoritarianism and repression
in the anti-war demonstrations against the war in Iraq.
solidarity demonstrations in Palestine.
We walk together with those who have jointly explored new paths of coordination and joint action with movements from all over the world that oppose neoliberal globalisation and the wars that accompany it.
With those who agreed on the need to create the Greek, the European and the World Social Forum.
With those we met in the struggle against dismissals and the deterioration of labour relations, in the struggles against unemployment,
austerity, poverty
With those we met in the struggle against racism, exclusion, the politics of discrimination based on gender and origin.
With those who in time and in public we have made known our documented refusal to hold the Olympic Games in our country and today we are fighting to prevent the consequences, both in the field of the economy and underdevelopment in the region and in the
field of the environment,
culture
and repressive measures in the name of "security".
Against war and occupation in Iraq.
For solidarity in the struggle of the Palestinian people.
For the expansion of political and social rights and freedoms in the face of repression and authoritarianism.
For the protection of citizens' personal data, the cancellation of electronic surveillance.
For stable and full employment for all,
with special attention to equal access of women to the labour market
For wages and pensions that ensure a decent life.
To stem the tide of redundancies.
For a 35-hour week without a pay cut and without deterioration of labour relations.
For an income support for the unemployed, special care for unemployed people entering the labour market for the first time
and a guaranteed income for men and women who have no other resources.
Defending the public, social character and improving the social security system and the health and care system.
The defence of public and free education at all levels, with a single 12-year compulsory school, the integration of vocational education in the high school, free access to higher education, the rejection of the business university and the tying of education to the speculative interests of capital.
The legalisation of migrants, the registration of equal labour, social security and social rights.
The safeguarding and defence of the rights of minorities living in our country.
The separation of church and state;
the abolition of all discrimination based on religious and philosophical beliefs.
A decisive breakthrough in the institutional status of the media, with the strengthening of institutional and social controls, based on the principle that frequencies are a public good, in order to free the information and media sector from the unbridled domination of intertwined speculative interests and from close government control.
For a radical tax reform based on favourable treatment of earned income; a
shift in the tax system from indirect to direct taxes.
For major public investment in health,
education,
culture
, restoration and protection of the environment,
which will create thousands of new jobs.
For a policy against privatisation and the divestment of public wealth
, the protection and upgrading of the public sector, especially in the area of social services.
For the multifaceted support of small and medium-sized production units with growth incentives and with the controlled aim of modernising them
and creating new jobs.
For a rural development and rural regeneration programme with support for dynamic crops, redistribution of CAP resources in favour of small and medium-sized farmers, support for organic farmers.
To ban the cultivation and marketing of genetically modified agricultural products.
For effective measures for the restoration and protection of the environment, the revocation of all laws that legalize arbitrary buildings, declassify forests, allow the sale and lease of beach areas, the alienation of public property.
To strengthen the struggles and all activities to defend the environment and improve the quality of life.
For the substantial improvement and development of public transport and the
option of supporting renewable energy sources.
For the all-round strengthening and support of cultural creation, the unhindered and free expression of artistic creation in all its manifestations, the particular strengthening of amateur initiative and
youth cultural activity.
In the period leading up to the elections we will be subjected to a campaign of blackmail, deception, vague promises and sensationalism.
With piles of money, with the media of the interconnectedness, they will seek in every way to convince us that resistance is futile, that our future is at the mercy of the two gladiators of power.
We call on citizens not to give in.
We invite them to strengthen with their vote the combination "Coalition of the Radical Left - Unitary Vote".
Because it expresses the need for the rallying and cooperation of the forces of the Left, of radical ecology, of the Social Movements.
Because it connects our struggles in Greece with the global movement against neoliberal globalisation and war.
Because the future of workers, of
young people, of
sensitive citizens should not depend on the speculative ambitions of capital and the meaningless game of two-party politics.
