12+1 Points for National Reconstruction25/4/2012In the era of the Memorandum, the support programme and the Loan Agreement, there is room for policy making, there is room for choices with ideological and moral colour, there is room to talk about a national plan for the reconstruction and reconstruction of our country.
Let me explain why I think that yes, we do have room for policy. Yes, political values and ideological predispositions do matter. Yes, Greece can follow the path to its own self-reliance through the endogenous resources it has, and the endogenous resources are the land first and foremost, the landscape, the history of that landscape, the bowels of the earth and the people. And the people are the minds and hands, the intellectual capital and the productive capacity. And you are one of the key contributors to this national development, you are the intellectual capital factor.
Point one. The new programme of course provides for budgetary targets, it provides for budgetary adjustment targets.  We want a sustainable public debt, we want a budget deficit that will gradually give way to a primary surplus, because it is through a sustainable debt, a primary surplus and satisfactory growth rates that we can be a financially sovereign country inside or outside the importing countries.
That's what the Memorandum says. It is up to us to achieve these budgetary targets by fighting tax evasion, reducing the volume of maladministration, meeting the 2012 budget's revenue targets and, in addition, through significant expenditure reductions due to structural changes in the state and the wider public sector.
The other option is horizontal cuts - the easy but necessary solution in wages, pensions and benefits. Here there is scope for political manoeuvre.
Point two. The new programme provides for a new tax system. Everybody wants, our partners want a simple, functional, efficient tax system supported by a transparent, not corrupt and efficient tax administration.
It is up to us to decide that we want a tax system that is literally national, that is the product of a broad consensus, bipartisan support.
∆Unfortunately, the New Republic withdrew from the dialogue a few days ago on the pretext of a pretext.
It is up to us to ask for a national tax system that will remain stable, and investors and taxpayers alike should know that for the next ten years.
A tax system that has a clear development and social redistributive dimension.
Point three. The new programme and the loan agreement provide for measures to strengthen competitiveness, how? Through the reduction of labour costs per unit of output, the opening of closed professions, support for entrepreneurship, the reduction of administrative costs.
It is up to us to transform Greece into a pro-investment country, a country with a wide range of development initiatives with public investment, with co-financed projects, with privatisation as an investment opportunity, with the creation of new jobs, with the reduction of the current account deficit through the strengthening of exports and import substitution.
It is up to us to find the crucial and necessary balance so that flexibility in labour relations is combined with the necessary security in terms and conditions of employment and compliance with the law through the effective operation of labour inspection systems.
And finally by ensuring that the reduction in labour costs is reflected in increased employment and lower prices for consumers.
Point four. The new programme wants a competitive Greece but does not envisage a new national production model.
We are the ones who have to build the new national production model, focusing on the sectors of our choice.
Exploiting the country's comparative advantages, even turning permanent structural disadvantages into advantages. Such as, for example, the large number of self-employed and the small average size of enterprises.
We are the ones who have to put the emphasis back on primary production, on branded products, on quality, on the food industry, on tourism, on shipping, on smart investments in energy, which should be investments on a pan-European scale, on innovation, on research and development.
Point five. The new programme, as we all know, provides for the recapitalisation and consolidation of the banking system.
The Greek people will invest a lot of money in the reconstruction and regeneration of the banking system in order to safeguard not only the financial sphere but also the entire productive potential of the country that rests on the financial system.
It is up to us to ensure that this is done in such a way that liquidity levels change for the benefit of Greek businesses, Greek households, with the aim of course to support new public and private investment.
Point six. The new programme and the new loan agreement provide for the privatisation of public assets to contribute to the reduction of public debt and to meet our budgetary targets.
It is up to us to do this in terms of transparency, in terms of growth, to turn every privatisation programme into a programme of investment and job creation.
Only in this way can we preserve the productive potential of the nation
and safeguard the consumer from the creation of new monopolistic situations, not public but private this time.
Point seven. The new programme and the loan agreement provide for an evaluation of services and staff in the public administration, with the aim of a more efficient and less expensive public administration.
It is up to us to do something much more ambitious but absolutely essential. To build the state from scratch.
∆We are not waiting for others to tell us that the Greek civil service is sick. ∆We did not wait for the Troika to tell us so. ∆We did not wait for the Troika to tell us that we want a public administration and a judiciary that operates transparently, quickly and efficiently.
∆We did not wait for others to tell us that we want a smaller and better targeted state, civil servants who work in a citizen-serving way, anti-bureaucratic logic, pro-investment orientation, support for entrepreneurship.
Speed, transparency and common sense are not imposed by the Memorandum but by the needs of the country.
Point eight. Yes, the new programme provides for measures to rationalise social spending, at around 2000 levels as a percentage of GDP.
It is up to us to preserve and rebuild the welfare state.
To have a sustainable insurance system, a sustainable national health system, by reducing opacity and waste in health care, by reducing pharmaceutical expenditure, by controlling illegal pensions and benefits.
Point nine. The new programme and the loan agreement do not address the most critical issues.  The change and consolidation of the political system, the self-cleansing measures in politics.
The radical changes needed to the Parliament's Rules of Procedure.
The functioning of the parties. The legal framework of the criminal liability of Ministers. The immunity of Members of Parliament. The reconciliation of the citizen with politics.
It is up to us Greeks to take our own national initiative, to take the necessary decisions that will culminate in a revision of the Constitution in 2013 in accordance with the constitutional deadlines.
∆Our national stake is, to recall a favourite expression of mine and a theoretical preoccupation of earlier times, the introduction of the institutional guarantees of a post-representative democracy, which is much more than representative democracy as we know it.
Point ten. The new programme, the loan agreement, the Memorandum do not refer to how the education system should be organised, how Greek universities should be upgraded, how our Research Institutions should operate and how they should link up with the private sector in the battle for innovation, research and development.
It is our national duty to make these actions a priority.
Point eleven, which unfortunately we don't often mention. The new memorandum and the loan agreement do not refer to our national issues.  ∆They do not deal with foreign policy, national defence planning, the Cyprus problem, Greek-Turkish relations, the delimitation of the continental shelf and the exclusive economic zone and other maritime zones, respect for national sovereign rights, which are also rights over a latent national property that is the property of future generations.
It is up to us to formulate and implement a comprehensive national policy. We must mobilise the great forces of expatriate Greeks and Greeks everywhere.
To re-found this is very important for the international brand of the country, which has unfortunately been damaged, the universal prestige of Greece.
Point twelve. The new programme and the loan agreement make no reference to the guarantees of the rule of law, to the security of the citizen as a fundamental right, to
the need for an integrated immigration policy in the context of the relevant European regulations, the Constitution and the European Convention on Human Rights.
∆It does not refer to the revitalisation of the centre of Athens, Thessaloniki and other large cities.
It is up to us to set our objectives and priorities to do what needs to be done with the cultural standards required, but effectively in this extremely critical area.
Point thirteenth and last. The new programme, the notorious Memorandum, does not refer to the identity of modern Hellenism. ∆It does not tell us, nor did it have the right to tell us, what modern patriotism means.
It is up to us to say what philanthropy means today. We know who we are and where we are going as a nation, or to put it better and more honestly, we ought to know who we are and where we are going as a nation.
We have to talk again in historical and cultural terms.
To highlight the relationship of Greeks with art, speech, culture, creation, the authenticity of the Greek landscape and the collective memory of the nation.
Friends, from this record, I hope I have highlighted my basic argument that yes, in crisis conditions, under the pressure of the new programme and the loan agreement, we have not only the space but the obligation to formulate and implement a comprehensive national reconstruction and recovery plan.
Let's take matters into our own hands. Believe in ourselves. We must convince the Greek citizens that democracy has a content and politics has an object.
That without politics there is no democracy.
Without democracy there is not only no state, but also no civil society.
The new national production model can only be based first and foremost on broadening the productive base, starting with the primary sector, agriculture, livestock and fisheries.
Import substitution, extroversion of Greek agricultural production, ensuring the country's food self-sufficiency
Strengthening agricultural production, a new primary sector, which creates a huge pool of employment
Upgrading of the food industry and linking production with the service sector, in particular with Greek quality tourism
Return to the countryside of young and educated people
MechanismsRegional Agricultural Partnerships
Adoption of good farming practices. Less water, cheaper energy, less fertilisers and pesticides
Intensify the policy of granting agricultural land to young farmers. Already €400 million have been committed for the next two years, while another €200 million will be used to set up or modernise small and medium-sized agri-processing units
Electronic trade register, auctions in order to consolidate the agricultural marketing circuit and protect the producer and the consumer
Contract farming that offers a stable income and prevents the risks experienced by the farmer
Financial and financial instrumentsThe creation of the Agricultural Support Fund, which can be endowed with 150 million from the Baltazis programme and through the use of this amount at least 500 million in initial capital.
∆Securing 100 million from the "Balthazi" programme as a package of incentives for young farmers to set up for the first time
The inclusion of agricultural oil in the new regulation on the taxation of liquid fuels, through the farmer-consumer card for agricultural oil, ensures that we can protect the farmer by combating any smuggling circuits.
inclusion of primary production inputs (animal feed, fertilisers, pesticides, agricultural machinery) at the lowest possible rate of value added tax
∆the development of a new cooperative and cooperative mentality, linking agricultural production directly to the consumer movement
∆Read our commitments in detail:The new national production model can only be based first and foremost on broadening the productive base, starting with the primary sector, agriculture, livestock and fisheries.
The tragic deficit of the country's trade balance, the fact that 85% of our country's food and 90% of its animal feed is imported from abroad, means that we must intervene immediately in the production base itself.
We must substitute imports, we must upgrade the extroversion of Greek agricultural production.
But we also have to do something that all modern countries are doing. We must make provision to ensure the country's food self-sufficiency, to tackle the food problem that threatens the whole world.
In addition, the strengthening of agricultural production, a new primary sector, creates a huge pool of employment.
If we want to address in a concrete and realistic way the acute, tragic problem we have in terms of employment, the large number of unemployed, we have to see where we have employment deposits. The primary sector gives us such a deposit.
It is also only through a new Greek primary sector that we can achieve an upgraded food industry and only in this way can we link our production, primary and secondary, with the service sector, especially with Greek quality tourism and not with Greek tourism of the simplistic model.
Also for modern man, in the context of the demographic crisis of ageing European societies, a new nutritional model is directly linked to the issue of health. The prevention of many modern diseases.
So this is how we arrive at the national production model that we want and this is how we address the modern agricultural issue of the country.
We will deal with this by respecting the national characteristics of Greek agriculture, of small and medium producers.
Only in this way can we also achieve a processing, a food industry based on quality, product identity and sustainability.
The new CAP
All this is directly linked to the new common agricultural policy. The new common agricultural policy allows us to guarantee farmers' incomes and, in any case, to help support them, to help strengthen mountain and island regions, to tackle the food crises I have mentioned and climate change, and of course all of this is linked to the consumer movement and to consumer protection.
"The potato movement "Everything we are saying today is linked to what we said last week about the 'potato movement' and the electronic platform, about auctions, about the need to change the marketing circuit for agricultural products.
The return to the countrysideThere is something else, however. It is linked to an already existing trend for young and educated people to return to the countryside. If this becomes a real movement, it will change the nature of the Greek economy and the way of life of many people who are now suffering in Athens, Thessaloniki and other urban centres.
We estimate that this concerns 1.5 million urban residents, of whom 20% are now exploring in a concrete and practical way the possibility of settling and working in the countryside in the primary sector. This is the result of a major survey that has been carried out.
Key objectivesOur objective is to turn the trade balance of agricultural products from negative to positive within the next 3 years, i.e. by the end of the adjustment programme. Already since 2012 the deficit of this balance is decreasing drastically.
The second basic option is the shift to the topical agri-food model and to a basket of products that is being shaped not only nationally, at the national level, but also in each region, because we need regional identities, regional development identities.
The MechanismsThe first mechanism is the regional agricultural partnerships. ∆These are in fact clusters of different enterprises and cooperatives. This is how the financial instruments of the second pillar of the common agricultural policy can be organised. ∆That is, the rural development pillar.
Thus we intervene in the financing, standardisation, processing, certification, promotion and promotion of Greek products.
The second mechanism, in addition to the regional agricultural partnerships, is good farming practices.
Less water, cheaper energy, less fertiliser and pesticides, lower costs, more benefit for the producer.
And because we want to strengthen the return to the countryside, we continue and intensify the policy of granting agricultural land to young farmers.
Already €400 million has been committed for the next two years, while another €200 million will be used to set up or modernise small and medium-sized agro-processing units.
But the basic means is to give farmland, arable and fertile land to people who want to return to the countryside.
All this is also linked to the general economic environment. The electronic trade register allows us to streamline the agricultural marketing circuit and protect the producer and the consumer.
It is contract farming that offers a stable income and prevents the risks that farmers always experience through the speculative manipulation of agricultural markets.
I have already mentioned the auctions and I am happy because the first two electronic and cooperative auctions have already been launched in the central market in Athens and in Sindos in Central Macedonia.
At the same time, in several other regions, Peloponnese, Sterea, Thessaly, viability studies for regional auctions have already been launched.
And now with the recapitalisation of the Greek banking system, which is coming under the strategic control of the state, we are opening up access for farmers to the entire banking system on the best possible terms.
In order to make it easier for the banks, we are creating the Rural Support Fund, the rural ETEAN, along the lines of the Small and Medium Enterprises Fund, which can be endowed immediately with 150 million from the Baltazis programme and, through the leverage of this amount, an initial capital of at least 500 million, with the cooperation of the banking system.
Another 100 million is secured from the Baltazis programme as a package of incentives for young farmers to set up for the first time, with corresponding savings from the rural development programme.
Rural oil in the context of the new regulation on the taxation of liquid fuels, through the farmer-consumer card for rural oil, ensures that we can protect the farmer by fighting any smuggling ring.
The system is simple, it is the result of thorough work carried out by the Ministries of Finance and Rural Development.
Within the framework of the national tax system, which is our proposal, a consensual and stable for ten years fair and simple tax system, animal feed, fertilisers, pesticides, agricultural machinery, and the inputs of primary production in general, are subject to the lowest possible rate of value added tax.
And what is even more important is to see how, through the creation of this movement of farmers returning to the countryside or young farmers, we can strengthen the community links, that is, we can form another cooperative, cooperative mentality, linking agricultural production directly to the consumer movement.
Prices Accuracy PASOK proposes concrete, realistic measures that can address the issue of accuracy, the issue of prices, within the framework of the European Community legal order. The problem in Greece is not inflation, but accuracy.
PASOK is committed to two packages of measures:A) institutional and structural measures.(1) Cooperation with the European Commission, so that we can make use of the possibilities offered by European Community law. Control of intra-market transactions at pan-European level;
(2) National Consumer and Market Council;
(3) Use of all international technical assistance to scan the whole market. Co-ordination of the actions of the SFOE, the General Secretariat for Trade, the Economic Police and the Municipal Police;
(4) Establishment of compensation for both consumers and businesses that fall victim to infringements of competition law;
(5) Open Market Centres regime.
B) Direct interventions; (6) Establishment of "inflation of the poor" as a benchmark;
(7) Establishment of Local Small Producer and Retailer Agreements;
(8) Electronic platform for direct sales from producers to retailers and consumers;
(9) Strengthening of domestic production.
∆Read our commitments in detail:PASOK proposes concrete, realistic measures that can address the issue of price stability, the issue of prices, within the framework of the European Community legal order.
The problem in Greece is not inflation, but accuracy. Despite the fact that inflation has fallen, is well below the European average and is forecast to be negative next year, the fall in incomes is creating a heavy sense of inexactness.
Many households cannot cope.
So the problem is not to stop prices from going up, but to bring prices down, to bring down the price level, to protect disposable income. Because what matters is the real income, the purchasing power of every Greek citizen.
∆We are committed to two sets of measures: the first is institutional and structural measures and the second is direct interventions.
We need to work closely with the European Commission, so that we make the most of the leeway given to us by European Community law, so that we do not become victims of a scandal that has been developing since Greece's accession to the EMU: many standardised products from the European market are sold in Greece, especially in chains, at a much higher price than in other European countries.
This requires control of intra-mill transactions not only at the Greek but also at the European level. And the Brussels services must move with us in a coordinated way.
The National Consumer and Market Council is established. All independent authorities with regulatory and market-related responsibilities shall report to this Council on a quarterly basis. The Competition Commission, the Energy Regulatory Authority, the National Telecommunications and Postal Commission and any other relevant body.
Use all international technical assistance to scan the entire market. Identify and root out all distortions. Closed professions, administrative costs, cartels, trusts, intra-municipal transactions.
Thus, on a daily basis, the action of the SIAA, the General Secretariat of Trade, the Financial Police and the Municipal Police is fully coordinated.
Legislation to provide for compensation both for consumers and for businesses, in particular productive businesses or smaller commercial enterprises, which are victims of infringements of competition law.
Legislation regulates the status of open shopping centres. This will stimulate trade in the centres of the large cities, Athens, Thessaloniki and all the regional markets, in the regional municipalities of the large urban agglomerations. This is the only way to ensure the survival of thousands of businesses.
Direct interventions.The benchmark is established, not generally and only the consumer price index, but the "inflation of the poor". Not a vague and theoretical 'housewife's basket', but the basket of the housewife of the average and poor household.
Consumers at medium and low levels are mainly oriented towards food and daily necessities.
Mobilising local and regional government to establish a new institution. These are the Local Associations of Small Producers and Retailers, so that regional producers can gain access to the large distribution chains.
We must exhaust the scope of Community legislation and apply it in full to control the behaviour of chains in terms of shelf positioning.
The crucial element for Greek products, for imported products, for consumer behaviour, is how each product is presented and placed on the shelves of the supermarket.
An electronic platform is established, regulated and fully transparent, for direct sales from producers to retailers and consumers.
Here there are related institutions promoted by the Ministry of Rural Development and Food. The auctions of agricultural products where we have institutions for electronic trading and electronic auctions, but also organised warehouses and organised distribution for direct cost reduction.
∆The second related institution is the agri-food partnerships, which allow local production to solve very serious problems of local demand and the local market.
Strengthening domestic production to free ourselves from imports. This cannot be done only by raising consumer awareness. But it can be done in conjunction with the measures I have announced to provide liquidity to small and medium-sized enterprises.
The Single Support Fund for Small and Medium Enterprises, for the injection of liquidity into the market, for "Tiresias", for working capital, are in fact measures that support domestic production, domestic products, domestic supply. That is what will drive down prices.
Because each business sees two rates: The quantity of products produced and the price. If it sees the quantity decreasing to make ends meet, it tries to keep the price high.
This vicious circle must be broken, we must strengthen domestic production, domestic supply, in order to orientate consumer behaviour.
Growth is not just talk, it is concrete interventions that require liquidity, the ability to inject money into the market.
Three channels will bring money into the market:Banking system: Recapitalization of Banks, return of deposits to the Greek banking system, deceleration of lending rates to businesses, changes to the Tiresias rules
Non-bank financial instruments: Unified Small Business Support Fund (99% of Greek businesses)
State: immediate repayment of its accumulated arrears to businesses, automated VAT refund mechanism, 10 billion released and put on the market through Treasury bills, release of large NSRF projects
Read our commitments in detail:Everyone talks about growth, but growth is not just talk, it is concrete interventions that require liquidity, the ability to put money on the market.
It is important for every Greek to understand how the great effort made by PASOK to reduce the public debt, to make the public debt sustainable and to reconstruct the country's finances is linked to the problem of businesses, the unemployed, households, to the functioning of the real economy, to the functioning of the market, which is suffering the effects of the recession.
There are three channels that can bring money into the market and create the environment for the growth that our country needs in the coming months.
The first channel is the banking system. In the banking system we propose four immediately feasible interventions:
The first is the recapitalisation of the banks per se. There is, on the basis of the programme we have agreed, 50 billion available for the recapitalisation of the Banks which are placed under the strategic control of the Greek State. So there are programmatic commitments by the Banks to the State to channel liquidity to businesses and the market.
It also ensures the smooth funding of Greek banks by the European Central Bank and the Eurosystem. This is the foundation of the whole effort for growth and for getting money into the market.
∆Second intervention: The return of deposits to the Greek banking system. EUR 70 billion have left in the last three years, some EUR 16 billion have gone abroad, some others have gone to pay liabilities and to keep businesses and households afloat. At least EUR 50 billion can be returned immediately and this is vital for the market. Because now they are lying unused, they do not even pay interest, whereas if they are put into the banking system they will give life to the market and jobs to the unemployed. We are already seeing encouraging signs of deposits returning.
The Movement for the return of deposits to the banks is something that we must adopt as a patriotic duty.
Third point: The banking system, under the strategic control of the State, is committed to lowering lending rates to enterprises and to maintaining funding ceilings for solvent enterprises with working capital problems.
Because that's where businesses are hurting, in the lack of working capital.
Fourth intervention. The rules of the notorious TIRESIA must be changed. In crisis conditions, with the market in crisis, a person cannot be registered with TIRESIA because a payment order for EUR 1 500 or 2 000 has been issued against him.
So, in direct agreement with the Greek banking system, the rules of Tiresias must be changed, they must become fair, reasonable, adapted to the new data of our economy, which must come out of the crisis.
The second channel is the so-called non-bank financial instruments.
Greeks and especially small and medium-sized enterprises hear various strange names, various abbreviations and acronyms. All these programmes, all the efforts, all the available resources are being brought together in a Single Support Fund for Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises.
And when we say small and medium-sized enterprises in Greece, we mean 99% of Greek enterprises, we mean 750,000 enterprises. ∆The range of support is being broadened, all businesses old and new are covered and the purpose is changing.
The purpose is working capital, to enable businesses to meet their working capital needs.
The third channel is the state itself. We have four immediate possibilities at the level of the state:First, on the basis of the new programme and the new loan agreement, the state must immediately repay its accumulated arrears to the market, to businesses. This amounts to EUR 6.3 billion.
∆We are demanding from our partners the rapid, immediate disbursement of these sums, the advance payment of the relevant amounts, which are included in the 130 billion in the new loan agreement. This means that the market picture will change as soon as the 6.3 billion is dropped.
∆Secondly, an automated VAT refund mechanism. 900 million of cleared liabilities of the Hellenic State are now to be paid for refund and a new framework is being put in place which operates automatically, impartially, without any intermediation, through the General Secretariat for Information Systems, without any human factor.
Third element. Under the programme, the borrowing of the Hellenic Government in the form of banknotes is reduced. In fact, through Greek Treasury bills the Greek commercial banks are lending to the State and thus tying up 10 billion from the banks' funds. This 10 billion is gradually, 2 billion per quarter, released and falls into the market.
So we have 10 billion available, just from the change in the system of the Greek Treasury bills.
Fourth point, but extremely crucial: The unblocking of large NSRF projects, large investment programmes that are bogged down in Community bureaucracy, which have a multiplier effect.
Behind every big project there are so many small satellite jobs, there are people waiting, the turnover is enormous, the employment created is extremely significant.
So we have 4+4+1, that is 9 points for liquidity in the real economy, as a foundation for growth, something concrete and tangible.
It is obvious that in order to improve growth rates we need to change the national production model itself.
The growth model that had worked for the previous 38 years, which had largely emerged by accident, ended up being based on public and private consumption through borrowing.
A new national production model, exploiting the country's comparative advantages. ∆There are two main endogenous sources of growth: the place and the people
A national productive model that: 1) Starts with the return to the countryside, the regeneration of primary production
2) Continues with innovation, the exploitation of intellectual capital, the stopping of capital flight
3) Extends to the classical economic fields:  tourism, shipping, energy, energy, exploitation of mineral wealth, information and communication technology
New dynamic sectors such as fish farming and generic medicines
Strengthening extroversion and emphasis on regional development identities. All our regions have huge comparative advantages. Theycan and must develop their own distinct and clear regional development identity on their own, with the help of the State
The new National Production Model is reflected in tax and development legislation, in public investment priorities and in the NSRF
Investment in major projects and infrastructure, in excess of €55 billion. Investments in energy, in all forms of energy, which could exceed €30 billion
∆Read our commitments in detail:
It is obvious that in order to improve growth rates we need to change the national production model itself. The growth model that worked for the previous 38 years, which had largely emerged by accident, ended up being based on public and private consumption through borrowing.
It has led to an unprecedented current account deficit by international standards. This deficit was 15% in 2007, when a careless Greece was celebrating the Year of Competitiveness!
This model has invalidated itself, has been pushed to its limits and is undoubtedly the basic structural cause of the crisis we are experiencing as a nation.
We therefore need a new national production model that exploits the country's comparative advantages. ∆There are two main endogenous sources of growth: place and people.
Place means geographical location. This is linked to everything from foreign policy to network and pipeline policy. Geographical location, history, culture, culture, landscape, settlement, mineral wealth, agricultural production, agriculture, livestock, fisheries, fish farming, tourism, shipping, energy from lignite and hydroelectricity to hydrocarbon exploration and from renewable energy sources (wind and solar) to pipelines and interconnected electricity transmission systems.
People means intellectual capital, education, training, training, research, innovation, health services and many other things.
So the National Production Model starts from the return to the countryside, the regeneration of primary production.
It continues with innovation, the exploitation of intellectual capital, stopping capital flight and extends to the classic fertile fields: tourism, shipping, energy, exploitation of mineral wealth.
Information and communication technology. New dynamic sectors such as fish farming and generic medicines and of course strengthening extroversion, emphasis on regional development identities, all our regions, from Thrace to Crete, have huge comparative advantages.
They can and must form their own distinct and clear regional development identity, with the help of the state.
And all this is of course reflected in tax and development legislation, in the state's relations with the banking system, in the priorities of public investment and the NSRF.
In the letter sent by the President of PASOK, Evangelos Venizelos, to the President of the European Commission, Mr. Barroso, he raised five critical issues which the European Commission has partially taken into account in its communication.
We have major problems with Community bureaucracy, with state aid.
We want a greater impetus for the frontloading of all structural funds and in particular the European Social Fund for youth unemployment.
We want more financial instruments to provide liquidity to small and medium-sized enterprises. We want to unblock the existing NSRF programmes that are in hypnosis.
The privatisations
Directly linked to the new National Production Model is the privatisation programme from which €19 billion in budgetary revenue is planned to be raised in the coming years.
However, the privatisation programme is not cash-based, but developmental.
The aim is not to divest, but to exploit the private assets of the public sector, which retains strategic control of all critical infrastructure and networks.
Every privatisation is therefore, in our view, an investment project that creates synergies, jobs and an inflow of capital from abroad.
There are already very positive signs of participation and interest in the tender procedures of the Privatisation Fund that were launched after the PSI and the change of the country's financial framework: DEPA, DESFA, Hellenic, etc.
New infrastructure projects
Another very important issue is new infrastructure projects which, combined with changing liquidity levels, can act as the levers that will really drive the economy and employment.
We estimate that in the next few years Greece can make investments in major projects, in infrastructure, in excess of €55 billion.
Not as a public investment, not only through the NSRF and the public investment programme, but we have the concessions, we have a lot of critical private investment.
Motorways, ports, harbours, marinas, airports, airports, regeneration, tourism, waste and waste management, water management. All of this could exceed 25 billion.
And the large volume, investment in energy. In all forms of energy that could exceed €30 billion.
But we start with agricultural policy, because the broadening of the productive base must begin with the primary sector.
The country's political problem is becoming a problem of democracy.  We are experiencing a crisis of the rule of law, of the validity, effectiveness and impartiality of the judiciary.
We need to rewrite the terms of operation of the state, society and the economy. We need initiatives of a constitutional, not just revisionist, nature.
We need a grand national, political and institutional agreement for a new State. We need to move from a democracy of the majority to a democracy of consensus.
∆We are committed to substantial changes in the following areas:
Radical change in the physiognomy of the parties. We favour open, institutional, democratic parties.
Change in the electorate itself: Reduction of the voting age, abolition of the cross of preference, reconsideration of the institution of State Deputies.
Changes in the functioning of the Parliament: Standing Committee on Citizens' Petitions, effective interconnection of the Committees with the independent authorities, change in the Committees of Inquiry, no privileges for MPs, rules of transparency and quality for legislative work,
changes in the institution of the President of the Republic: In the revision, if the election by 3/5 is not achieved, direct election by the electorate should be foreseen, new type of regulatory powers for the President of the Republic.
Changes in government: From the classical closed Prime Minister-centric model to the open model of coordinated collective functioning of the Government, abolition of the vertical organization of Ministries, consolidation of related responsibilities in one Ministry, no special statute of limitations for the responsibility of Ministers, minimum number of Deputy Ministers not more than ten (10), maximum number of fourteen (14) Ministries
Changes in Public Administration: Scientifically sound evaluation of services and staff, new, smaller and more efficient regional state, effective exercise of the right to petition and the right to prior hearing, pro-development civil service
Changes in the institution of the judiciary: Selection of the leadership of the judiciary by the Council of Ministers, but with the consent of the Plenary of the Parliament by a two-thirds majority; strict rules for the random selection of the lawful judge
Read our commitments in detail:The new form of the stateThe country's political problem is becoming a problem of democracy. We are experiencing a profound crisis of parliamentary and representative institutions in general.
We are experiencing a crisis of the rule of law, of the validity, effectiveness and impartiality of the judiciary.
We are experiencing a crisis of insecurity due to new forms of crime and the widespread tension and underground violence in society.
We have to give an answer. We must give an answer, with a perspective. An answer that has not only an institutional and political basis, but also a moral basis.
We must overturn the presumption of guilt that surrounds parties, politicians, the political system.
We need to rewrite the terms of operation of the state, society and the economy.
What is needed are initiatives of a constitutional and not just revisionist nature.
We need to go through a deep, total revision of the Constitution. Political and institutional agreement between the political parties, social players, civil society and those who deal with these issues institutionally is absolutely essential.
We need a major national, political and institutional agreement for a new State. We need to move from a democracy of the majority to a democracy of consensus. We need to have post-majority guarantees for independent authorities, for the leadership of the judiciary. We need a broad consensus because the scale of the crisis demands it.
1. New parliamentary system of governance
Democracy will not be enhanced by the abolition or annulment of the role of the parties, but by a radical change in the nature of the parties.
We believe in open, institutional, democratic parties.
PASOK has already taken the initiative to radically change itself. It will be completed in September at the founding Congress, the constitutional Congress of PASOK.
But we have already begun the renewal of our candidates' lists, the renewal and the constant evaluation of the cadres.
We have changed the situation with regard to finances: total transparency, an international audit of what has been done by an international auditing company, a lean operation of the party, a lean, low-cost election campaign.
To go to a drastic reduction of the state subsidy, to make the small nominal contributions of members and friends through a bank account work.
We have advocated a new body, with the participation of judges and auditors, and a new institutional framework for controlling the finances of political parties and politicians, because it is not possible for only Members of Parliament or a majority of Members of Parliament and representatives of political parties to control the parties.
We want PASOK, and every other party, to be a party of civil society, a network of social organisations at the neighbourhood level, but of course also at the local, regional and national level.
2. Change in the electorate itself
2.1. Reduction of the voting age. The voting age and the voting age for municipal and regional elections have long been lowered. ∆It makes no sense not to lower the age of eligibility in the Constitution for parliamentary elections.
2.2 Abolition of the preference cross, which is, I would say, at the heart of old-party practice. But this presupposes the establishment of institutions, the democratic functioning of the parties and control of the democratic functioning of the parties.
2.3 Electoral districts must have substance and be linked to the self-governing and development districts.
2.4 Review the institution of State Deputies.
3. Functioning of the Parliament
3.1 Radical revision of the Regulation
3.2 Exploiting the possibilities left unexploited while existing in the Constitution
3.3 Drawing on international experience from the United States Congress to the European Parliament
3.4. Changing the status of civil servants so that there are no unjustified privileges
3.5. Smaller committees per ministry with an individual control role for each MP, without additional remuneration
3.6. Substantial interconnection of the committees with the independent authorities. New forms of rapid and direct parliamentary scrutiny both at committee level and at plenary level, with unannounced full questions for both the Prime Minister and Ministers
3.7. A permanent Citizens' Petitions Committee so that citizens do not just send in a paper, but come forward and explain their problems and someone listens to them with attention and respect
3.8. Direct link with the European Parliament's functions
3.9. Change of examination boards. Examination Committees of small numbers, members of the Committees shall be selected by lot. The Committees of Inquiry will include judges and experts in order to ensure that their findings are objective and well-founded.
No confrontation between parties on the findings of the Committees of Inquiry, where each party expresses its own political position
3.10. Enhancement of the moral authority and political standing of the Member of Parliament. Waiver of the immunity of PASOK MPs in advance. No privileges for MPs, just technical support for their work
3.11. Transparency and quality rules for legislative work. A law on good lawmaking has already been passed; the OECD standards already exist.
There is a need for constant monitoring of citizens via the Internet.
∆We are not talking about the usual consultation, but about monitoring the whole process from the drafting of the draft, the debate in Parliament and the implementation of the law.
This includes both amendments and implementation and regulatory acts. Citizens must be present. They will be selected by criteria, by lottery eventually and they will also attend on the spot and via the Internet.
∆A twofold system of monitoring the implementation of the laws, both by the Parliament itself and by the General Secretariat of the Government, so that there is an annual report on each law, on the degree and quality of implementation, under the responsibility of the competent Minister, but also of the others who monitor it.
This also concerns the transposition of Community legislation into the Greek legal order, so we have to deal with the European plague of legislative inflation, it is not only national.
President of the Republic
4.1 The revision must, if it is not possible to elect him by 3/5, provide for direct election by the electorate, without altering the characteristics of the parliamentary constitution.
4.2 The President of the Republic should be given a new type of regulatory powers. Not the old ones, which have proved ineffective with regard to the appointment and dismissal of the Government and the dissolution of Parliament, but a new type of regulatory powers to promote and guarantee:
effective dialogue between the parties,
a genuine relationship between civil society and democratic institutions, the
effective functioning of independent authorities
and the independence of the judiciary.
5. Government
The classic closed prime ministerial model led to a very large extent to the crisis we are experiencing, because it is the ruling party and the prime minister-centric government that cultivated the mentality of the closed small information staff and ultimately led to a lack of insight, the alarm was not raised in time.
5.1 We need to move from the classic closed Prime Minister-centric model to the open model of coordinated collective and concerted operation of the Government.
Co-operation governments want a different way of organisation and a different institutional role for the parties in relation to the functioning of the government, with full transparency.
5.2 An enhanced role for the General Secretariat of Government.
5.3 Abolition of the vertical organisation of ministries, i.e. the ministerial fiefdoms. ∆There is no need for ministerial patriotism and assertion of responsibilities. Each minister is responsible for a ministry, but also for the horizontal policies that primarily correspond to his or her ministry, so as to overcome the tragic problem of interdependencies and bureaucracy.
5.4 Daily teleconferencing of Secretaries-General to resolve problems without delay.
5.5. Small inter-ministerial committees.
5.6. Consolidation of related responsibilities in one Ministry. For example, the Ministry of Health, Welfare and Social Insurance, the Ministry of Development and Labour, the Ministry of Public Administration and Local Government.
We can thus reach a maximum number of fourteen (14) Ministries, including the Ministry of Merchant Shipping, which the largest maritime power in the world, Greece, must once again have.
5.7 Minimum of no more than ten (10) Deputy Ministers;
5.8 Strict criteria for the selection of Secretaries General. Permanent Secretaries-General in sensitive areas such as tax and customs matters. Preferably one Secretary-General per Ministry.
No special limitation period for the liability of ministers, no special, favourable criminal offence for a minister. Jurisdiction of the Judicial Council from the preliminary investigation phase.
∆Public administration
6.1 The objective is to provide scientifically sound evaluation of services and staff.
6.2 Activation of the new Disciplinary Law, the new Disciplinary Boards.
6.3 A new, smaller and more efficient regional state is needed.
The presence of the state in the region is complex and we have more political and temporary staff than we need.
The bureaucratic infrastructure, but also the number of temporary staff of political figures in the periphery, in the regional structure of the state, must be reduced.
6.4 A unified Code of Administrative Procedure and Procedure, because this is the only way for the public administration to understand what it means to comply with court decisions and for citizens not to have to resort to the courts if they can solve their problems more quickly and at lower cost through administrative procedures.
6.5 The effective exercise of the right to be heard and the right to a prior hearing, and the new right of access to digital information.
6.6 It is very important that what we say about eGovernment is put into practice.
All citizens are served for all matters by the digital CCP and where new Citizen Service Centres need to be established, these are done in partnership with the private sector or the wider public sector.
An important step has already been taken with the Post Office; it can be done with the whole banking system. Every bank branch can also function as a CCP.
The main thing is a pro-growth public administration.
Reverse the prevailing logic in all licensing, all of it.
The permit is issued under the responsibility of the private individual and his technical advisor, for example the Engineer, and the inspection follows.
The problem is not the establishment of the company, but the actual start-up and operation of the business.
Local Government
7.1. A new role for local government. Local government means local development and local employment.
7.1.1 Local government can contribute to tackling unemployment, particularly youth unemployment.
Local government programmes, self-help, i.e. direct recruitment in municipalities for their own projects, community service, are two levers which can immediately provide many thousands of rolling jobs, especially for young people. 120,000 jobs are provided by self-employment and 45,000 jobs are provided by community service, in combination with non-governmental organisations.
7.1.2 Local government can play a role in terms of development initiatives. Local government can provide investment opportunities at the local level on a small scale.
Because apart from the public sector with its burdens and the traditional private sector, there is a third sector, the social sector, which has many advantages and can help local development, especially in crisis conditions.
7.1.3 Local authorities have the infrastructure, the experience and the capacity to put in place a social protection network that can very quickly lead to the full-scale phase of a guaranteed level of decent living standards.
The new "Help at Home" programme, the other institutions of social intervention, such as social grocery stores, social pharmacies, soup kitchens, intervention in housing problems, intervention in tackling the major and vital problem of absolute poverty, give local government the experience and the ability to function as an institution of social state, social solidarity, social cohesion and social justice.
∆An institutional agreement between the State and local authorities on financial matters. The "VALUE" programme is already being implemented to balance the budgets of all local authorities.
∆Justice
This is a huge problem for the rule of law, for transparency, for the credibility of the state, and for the morale of the citizen, who must believe that there are guardians of legality.
And of course a huge development problem, because many development programmes end up facing the bureaucratic barrier of the judicial system.
8.1 Selection of the leadership of the judiciary by the Council of Ministers, but with the consent of the Plenary of Parliament by a two-thirds majority.
8.2 Ensuring internal independence, new rules not of inspection but of fair evaluation of judicial officials.
8.3 Strict rules for random selection of the legitimate Judge, so that there are no "set-ups" in relation to the handling and determination of cases.
8.4 The right to the Law Judge, should be absolute. This applies to the role of the Presidents and Vice-Presidents of the High Courts and the Heads of all courts and prosecutors' offices.
8.5 Establish the possibility of abstract review by recourse to the Supreme Special Court, pending debate in Parliament and the formation of a broad consensus on the final form that constitutional review of laws should take, because there is no point in entering into a "Constitutional Court or Supreme Special Court" debate.
These proposals are of course proposals that should be discussed with the other political forces.
All these issues must be the subject of broad consensus and post-majority solutions, but PASOK has a clear line, PASOK knows very well that the whole issue is the state.
The citizen blames the state for all the ills and he is very right. On the other hand, the crisis has shown that the citizen is demanding a solution to the problem and guarantees of security in the state.
It is the state that handles the overcoming of the crisis, without the state, only through the operation of the market and society, we are leading to a jungle, which is always to the detriment of the weakest, the poorest, the least accessible.
A new state is ultimately the hard core of a new European socialist conception of how to turn this crisis into a springboard for overcoming it.
Unfortunately, Greece has never, until now, during the life of the independent Greek state, acquired a comprehensive, stable, comprehensible, simple, functional tax system with a clear developmental and social orientation.
Our proposal:Stable for 10 years National Tax System
Immediate abolition of the Code of Books and Elements and its replacement by simple rules for the presentation of transactions
Provision for incentives for compliance in order to foster the perception that what is legal is advantageous
Two criteria for determining our priorities for the gradual reduction of taxes and social security contributions: 1) The multiplier effect it has on the economy;
2) Tax fairness and avoidance of tax distortions.
Gradual withdrawal of the solidarity levy of 1 to 4% of total declared income
Reduction of the non-wage cost of insurance contributions by 5 percentage points, i.e. by about 10% of the total amount.
This reduction will provide a significant incentive to increase employment and reduce unemployment and will allow evasive businesses to join the scheme.
A single mechanism for the collection of taxes and fees will be a catalyst.
Transition from the Special Property Tax to a single progressive property tax.
Gradual reduction of indirect taxes, in particular VAT rates. We have already drastically reduced rates in tourism, we have committed ourselves to lower rates on all agricultural inputs (fertilisers, animal feed and so on), and our stated aim is to return the VAT rate on catering to its previous levels.
∆Read our commitments in detail:
Unfortunately, Greece has never, until now, during the life of the independent Greek state, acquired a comprehensive, stable, comprehensible, simple, functional tax system with a clear developmental and social orientation.
The changes already made and to be promoted in the tax administration are of enormous importance.
A major change has taken place since July 11: the lifting of banking secrecy. It is the egg of Columbus.
And we already have many building blocks towards the new National Tax System.
The way of administration and operation of the 30 large tax offices covering 90% of the tax base has been changed,
the large taxpayers unit, the electronic tax office has been created, the selection of auditors on merit criteria and performance contract has been started.
The Administrative Tax Dispute Resolution Committee is operational.
A tax arbitration mechanism is organised The
Ministry of Justice has accelerated tax litigation The provision of tax certification by private Chartered Accountants is now foreseen and this is
extended to medium and small enterprises at no cost.
It is really unrealistic to drift into petty electoral promises of tax and rate cuts.
What we are promising, and what is ready, is the immediate abolition of the Code of Books and Records and its replacement by simple rules for the presentation of transactions, embedded in the framework of the National Tax System. This would avoid unreasonable and burdensome fines.
We are providing incentives for compliance in order to instil in people the perception that what is legal is in their interest.
But the truth is that people are being squeezed by what has happened in the tax legislation over the last three years.
Something that was undoubtedly cruel, unfair in many respects, but unfortunately necessary for cash reasons, for the country's cash survival.
So, what is important is to see how the Greek citizen can be gradually relieved of these extraordinary tax burdens that are arising from the crisis.
Now that the fiscal adjustment is more than two-thirds complete, now that the debt has been reduced and its sustainability ensured, now that the new programme has been approved, the new conditions I have already mentioned are being created: increased liquidity, reduced uncertainty, structural changes.
All this could actually lead the economy to positive growth rates and thus to an increase in tax revenues, because businesses and households will gradually become more comfortable in meeting their tax obligations.
Demand will also increase and this will change turnover and indirect tax revenues.
These developments allow us to proceed with gradual reductions in taxation and, in addition, a gradual reduction because this hurts businesses and therefore employment of non-wage labour costs, i.e. social security contributions.
This in turn will have a very positive impact on the achievement of positive growth rates and on the ability to comply with taxes.
We use two criteria as guides to determine our priorities for the gradual reduction of taxes and social security contributions: The first criterion is the multiplier effect on the economy of any move.
The multiplier effect on growth of any move in relation to taxation.
Our criterion is the multipliers used by the OECD in its analyses.
Of the revenue multipliers, the one with the largest positive effect on growth is that of personal income tax.
It is followed by that of social security contributions and then, in third place, by that of indirect taxes.
Our second criterion is tax fairness and the avoidance of tax distortions.
On the basis of the above criteria, we can proceed, in parallel with the gradual achievement of the budgetary targets and hence the improvement of growth rates, to the gradual reduction of taxes and social security contributions in the following order:
Phasing out the solidarity levy of 1 to 4% of total declared income. This levy, which is essentially a serious additional income tax, can have a major multiplier effect once it is removed, because it increases disposable income.
Reduction of the non-wage costs, which I have talked about, the insurance contributions, by 5 points, that is about 10% of the total.
This reduction, given that non-wage costs are already very high in Greece, will provide significant incentives for employment growth and unemployment reduction.
It will allow tax evasive businesses to join the scheme. The single mechanism for the collection of taxes and fees will be a catalyst. Thus, through the smooth operation of the system itself, we are safeguarding the revenue of the Funds and at the same time relieving businesses, and even compliant businesses, of a very significant burden.
The transition from the Special Property Tax collected through the PPC bills, for which no electricity was cut off to any house in need and in real need, to a single progressive property tax.
The introduction of the Special Charge through the PPC bills was, as you will recall, forced in September as a measure of immediate reimbursement, due to the exceptional circumstances that prevailed.
The reduction of indirect taxes, in particular VAT rates.
But this will again be done gradually, of course.
We have already drastically reduced rates in tourism, we have committed ourselves to reduced rates, the lowest possible, on all agricultural inputs (fertilisers, animal feed and so on), and our declared ambition is to return the VAT rate on catering to its previous levels.
Corporate tax, which was 25% in 2009, was reduced to 20% in 2011. We estimate that businesses benefit more significantly from the 10% reductions in social security contributions than if we reduced the rate of personal income tax for legal entities, while the next step will be taken depending on the achievement of the budgetary targets and in combination of course with the personal income tax rates. In our country only 25,000 persons have unfortunately so far declared income tax of more than 100,000.
The total cost of these measures, as we have calculated it, does not exceed 1% of GDP and can be absorbed if the conditions we have mentioned are met, i.e. improvement in growth rates and convergence towards the budgetary targets.
PASOK's programmatic commitments on social protection are immediately implementable, so that no Greek man or woman feels lonely and abandoned during the crisis.
Youth unemployment: a) employment support programmes to be completed by summer 2013;
b) need to increase NSRF resources. We have already secured €250 million more for this area and are requesting another €150 million from the European Social Fund.
Universal health protection: all Greek citizens will have access to the National Health System, to health care, to health coverage.
∆Social protection network: A mechanism for a guaranteed level of decent protection for every citizen.
New arrangements for over-indebted households: Immediate extension of the arrangements for over-indebted households and individuals to sole proprietorships, to professionals whose debts reach up to €25,000.
Loan settlements: (a) The Greek banking system is ready and obliged to settle all loans that cannot be serviced, in order to benefit primarily the borrowers, but also the lenders.
(b) The total loan servicing costs of a household cannot exceed 40% of the monthly family income;
(c) A drastic lengthening of the servicing period.
∆Read our commitments in detail:
Α. Youth unemployment
First objective: to speed up procedures so that the programmes underway to boost employment are completed by summer 2013 instead of the end of 2014 as originally planned in the NSRF.
∆Second objective: the need to increase the resources of the NSRF for youth unemployment. The employment axis should be strengthened with priority given to young people.
We have already secured €250 million more for this sector and we are asking for another €150 million from the European Social Fund, an achievable target to give us an additional €400 million.
This means a lot for programmes to support youth entrepreneurship, for vocational training, for apprenticeships, and we must add to these the self-help programmes of local authorities and community service programmes.
Β. Universal health protection
∆Our promise, universal health protection. All Greek citizens, especially the unemployed, the poor, those with low incomes, will have access to the National Health System, to health care, to health coverage.
The expenditure is covered by the insurance institutions and by the OAED, and we estimate that very few additional resources will be required, provided that we make rational use of the existing resources of the National Health System and the social security institutions.
C. Social protection network
Strengthening social support and care structures through the efficient management of resources for social protection.
A radical overhaul of the welfare sector with a view to establishing the mechanism of a guaranteed level of decent protection for every citizen.
All responsibilities are concentrated in the Ministry of Labour and Social Security. We already have the administrative machinery in place and the Single Social Protection and Solidarity Agency is being set up.
∆Two examples:
α) New programme "Help at home. The new programme is being extended to cover 130,000 people by the end of next year, more than doubling the population served by this programme.
It covers not only people with disabilities or elderly people, but also the uninsured, pensioners, anyone in need of practical, immediate home help.
In addition, 5,000 new jobs are created in the new "Help at Home" programme.
b) A new National Network of Direct Social Intervention at the national level. With €50 million, 300 new structures, 1,500 new jobs for young people. The local authorities, the Church, non-governmental organisations are strengthened.
Social grocery stores, open day centres for the homeless, soup kitchens, hypnosis centres, volunteer time banks, mediation offices, social pharmacies and other similar initiatives.
∆. New arrangements for over-indebted households
Immediate extension of the arrangements for over-indebted households and natural persons in sole proprietorships, professionals who have the status of traders, whose activity is based on their personal work, who work in the form of a sole proprietorship and whose debts are up to €25,000.
This category of professionals will be covered by the existing law on over-indebted households. Therefore, they will not be subject to the bankruptcy procedure, but to a more lenient procedure for the immediate recovery and immediate protection of their first home.
A special account for each person up to €1,500, which cannot be affected. ∆It cannot be confiscated, withdrawal from this account cannot be prevented. And when the account is a joint account, then EUR 1,500 becomes EUR 2,000.
There are also a number of arrangements that facilitate the inclusion in this scheme, more quickly, without the need for a prior out-of-court settlement with the Bank, for a longer period of time, for five years rather than three, and a number of other arrangements that make the framework much more friendly and useful for every person, for every professional who has a problem.
So, a package of measures that makes the new scheme much more efficient, effective and accessible to those in need. Already over 10,000 applications are pending
E. Loan arrangements The readiness and the obligation
The Greek banking system, which is being recapitalized with public money and placed under the strategic control of the Greek State, is ready and obliged to settle all the loans that cannot be serviced, so that the borrowers benefit first and foremost, but also the lenders, the banks, which have every reason to ensure that the loan is not turned into a non-performing loan, into a "red" loan, but is kept alive and servicable.
So far, 800,000 loans have been settled (400,000 consumer loans, 200,000 mortgages, over 150,000 business loans) and the "agreement" we have asked for with the Union of Greek Banks is that these settlements should be rolling and continuous so that any citizen who can service his loan on more favourable terms can in fact be accepted, because it is important to keep the credit sector alive.
The example is given by the Deposits and Loans Fund.
By decision of PASOK President Evangelos Venizelos and by a law passed by the Greek Parliament, the monthly deduction for mortgage instalments in the Deposits and Loans Fund was reduced from six tenths (6/10) of the monthly salary to half.
Now the maximum monthly deduction for mortgage servicing is only 30% of the monthly salary and if the family income includes other sources, a second salary or rental income for example, all together they cannot give more than 40% for the servicing of the loan.
Therefore, the total loan servicing costs of a household cannot exceed 40% of the monthly family income.
We also have a drastic lengthening of the service period. Housing loans up to 40 years and repair loans up to 30 years and a number of other arrangements that show that when there is political will and an institutional framework, solutions can be found.
So what is happening at the Deposits and Loans Fund is an example of how it is possible for the credit sector to find solutions without the need for greater legislative intervention, which creates problems with our partners, with international credit institutions, with the international banking market.
So we can have solutions that are immediate, feasible, socially sensitive, implementable.
*******
Mr Samaras' so-called "equivalent measures" When we were struggling to close the new programme and sign the loan agreement, when we were struggling to close a 325 million euro gap, Mr Samaras was not in a position to present any equivalent measures.� When we were struggling to close the new programme and sign the loan agreement, when we were struggling to close a 325 million euro gap, Mr Samaras was not in a position to present any equivalent measures.
After pressure, he said two "equivalent" measures:The first was to limit recruitment in the public sector and to move from the 1:5 rule, i.e. five departures one recruitment, to the 1:10 rule, ten departures one recruitment.
We were on the 1:10 rule and under pressure from the Troika we went back to the 1:5 rule, for operational reasons, because the 1:10 rule cannot cover the basic needs of the Greek Police, the Coast Guard, the Fire Brigade and the Armed Forces.
If we do not go for this, we will have a limitation of 3,000 recruitments per year, which means that we will gain at most 100 million euros.
The second equivalent measure he said was to increase the tax on OPAP games.
We explained to him that this means a corresponding reduction in the dividend that the Greek State receives from OPAP and a corresponding reduction in the price that the Greek State will receive if OPAP is privatised.
So it is a zero effect measure, because it actually replaces existing revenues of the Greek State.
If we adopt the logic of Mr.Samaras, the June measures for the following years, which PASOK has proposed to be three years and to extend the adjustment in 2015, we will have to seek not 11 billion euros, but 20 billion euros from Mr.Samaras' tax measures alone.
If we add other measures, through the logic of "equivalents", then the Greek people will have to find somewhere to cut spending or increase revenues, not €20 billion, but €21.22 billion.
So, whatever we give, we have to get it from somewhere, and we are not prepared to enter into this tug-of-war, because there is a domino effect, a carousel effect, which is ultimately to the detriment of the lower income strata, the low-paid and the low-retired.
Mr Samaras says: "I will restore the losses of the low pensioners and the lux luxurious allowances". Quite right!
∆But it is not only these injustices that have been done, it is not only the losses themselves that need to be restored.
There are other equally important population groups which are much more sensitive, because there are more sensitive than the large families with an income of over EUR 45,000 per year, where the reduction in the family allowance was made, and social groups in a worse situation than even the low pensioners who have a pension and the social security allowance of less than EUR 800.
Who are they? The more than one million unemployed.
The most vulnerable group in Greece is the unemployed, especially those with families.
We have reduced unemployment benefits and the first objective would be to increase, to restore unemployment benefits.
We have households with low incomes, paying extraordinary taxes because of the crisis, extraordinary contributions, special taxes.
We have committed ourselves that these will be phased out gradually, because we want to use the country's financial recovery primarily to cover injustices and inequalities, to restore losses and injustices.
But to do so requires a system, a plan, responsibility and a logical order.
We must therefore implement this policy, which leads us and may lead us very soon to the possibility of abolishing extraordinary taxes and contributions, abolishing increased social security contributions, and helping businesses, help to combat unemployment and ultimately lead as soon as possible to a real recovery of losses and not to a carousel where you take from someone, give to someone and then take again, and so on, in a vicious circle.
PASOK will not follow this sloppy old-party approach of Mr Samaras.
