Thank you very much, thank you from the bottom of my heart.
Your Holiness, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to make a nominal reference to former Prime Minister Kostas Karamanlis, who is present here today, and to Antonis Samaras, the former Prime Minister who kept Greece standing in difficult times.
I would also like to thank all of you for responding to our invitation at a time when we are a week before the elections.
And this is a crucial time to hear our proposal, our thinking for the future of the country, the economy, for stability, for social justice and for growth.
Our country is again at a breaking point.
The decisions we Greeks will take next Sunday will determine our course for the many years to come.
They are judging our future, they are judging the future of our youth.
I want to make it clear from the outset that there is no easy way and we have not said that, nor are we going to say that.
We will never give out false hopes and false programmes because we are responsible.
From us, from me, you will hear only truths.
Truth first, the dangerous experiments of the last 7 months have failed completely.
They dragged our country into the deepest waters of the crisis and cost us much, much too much.
Never before has so much bad happened in such a short period of time.
True second, unfortunately, the risks that peaked last July have not been overcome with the latest agreement.
There are serious unfinished business and the next few months are very, very difficult.
Really third, we can't take any more experiments.
Now is the last chance.
And this last chance must not be missed.
It is the duty of all of us to build solid foundations to take Greece forward.
The question, then, is clear.
Do we want honesty and plain speaking or populism and demagoguery?
Do we want responsibility and experience or irresponsibility and experimentation?
Do we want to go forward with a Government of all Greeks or go back with a Government with 53 constituents and possibly elections again?
A year ago from here, from this very podium at the TIF, the President of SYRIZA was generously handing out everything to everyone.
And many were seduced by those promises.
And in January they had to compare the responsible actions of the Samaras government with the cloud of promises that it had made from here at the TIF and that it was cultivating for the coming months.
Now we have to compare the promises he made and the promises he made to us in January with what we have before us this month.
And this comparison must be made.
And I am sure that if we recall what he had proposed from here, from here, from Thessaloniki, and compare it with today, we will see the big difference.
He was then committed to cancelling most of the debt.
He was committed to the restoration of the 13th pension,
to the immediate abolition of the ENFIA,
to a tax-free allowance of 12,000 euros,
to an increase in the minimum wage to 751 euros.
For more unemployment benefits.
For 300,000 new jobs.
For the establishment of a development bank and special purpose banks for small and medium-sized enterprises and farmers and many other fancy things.
And there were many of our fellow citizens who said that half of what he promises to do will be good.
Let's try him.
But the actions show that he did none of that and not only did he not do any of that, he took us way behind.
A few months later, SYRIZA with ANEL and Golden Dawn, taking advantage of the process of electing the President of the Republic in December, called for early elections.  In December.
In other words, it was violently interrupting the term of the Parliament, but also the smooth course of the country towards recovery, and it did so by making a double commitment,
on the one hand, to implement the Thessaloniki programme in full
and, on the other hand, to abolish the Memorandum, which it said to us in broad daylight, and at a specific time, with a law, an article.
Even those who doubted him thought that he could do something.
And those who didn't believe him thought that by voting for him, they were taking no chances.
He managed to steal the votes of many and form a government with the ANEL.
But I would like to add something, that in the first month it is true that the government created a climate of expectations.
Even we, many of us, were saying, let's see how the Tsipras-Kammenos government does.
But just a short time later, after strange choices, inefficiency, ignorance, the coalition government put the brakes on the country's funding.
He immediately stopped all payments to the state, with the exception of salaries and pensions.
It started to increase the state's debts to individuals and caused a suffocation of the market.
It finally reached the point of imposing internal forced borrowing, wiping out the assets of every public institution.
Since then, despite the recovery that we had in 2014, the country started to sink back into recession.
Public finances, already recording primary surpluses, were sinking back into deficits.
Unemployment, which had at least slowly begun to fall, was not going up again.
But that was not all. Shortly afterwards, as their top minister revealed, they decided to blackmail the Europeans by threatening them with Grexit.
So what did they do? They resorted to a referendum, which was divisive, which was a bluff.
They deliberately let things, the programme expire and they knowingly pushed the country over the cliff.
They closed all the banks by their own decision and with full knowledge of the damage they were causing.
They then put in capital controls, which are still going on.
The image of shame with the endless humiliating queues of pensioners is and will remain in our minds until the time we go to the ballot box to remember what the works and days of the coalition government were.
They led thousands of businesses to collapse.
They choked the market.
They tore down what had been done with many sacrifices for entrepreneurship and growth.
They caused chaos, terror, destruction, under these circumstances, after weakening the country, and bringing despair to the citizens,
they decided to finally come down from their cloud and settle for the most painful deal that could exist.
The cost of their inefficiency and their experiments was too heavy.
The forecast of strong growth turned into a deep recession.
Burden? Around €11 billion for '15 alone.
The country went from primary surpluses back to deficits.
A burden of around €13 billion over the next three years.
Privatisation has come to a complete halt.
Burden? About 10 billion over the next three years.
The public sector's arrears to the private sector have increased, so that their repayment requires new borrowing.
Burden? About 5 billion for 2015 alone.
The cash reserves of the general government agencies were wiped out, requiring additional borrowing.
Burden? About 7 billion for the next day.
The need for a new recapitalisation of banks has arisen. Burden? 25 billion.
The value of the bank shares held by the Greek government has plummeted from 15 billion to 3 billion. Surcharge? 12 billion.
They could not complete the old NSRF and they did not start the new one. Burden? 10 billion.
I mention them, because they tell us: how come we say they cost so much?
We tell the Greek citizens in detail what the burden of the 7 months of the Tsipras-Kamenos government was.
But 7 months after they formed the government, nothing they said, nothing they said, nothing they did, nothing they did has been left standing.
Instead of abolishing the memorandum as they said they would, they brought in another even worse one.
Instead of raising the tax-free allowance, they put in additional taxes.
Instead of giving the 13th pension, they cut pensions even further.
Instead of creating special purpose banks, they crippled and closed down the ones that already existed.
And on top of that we are also resorting to new borrowing which will reach 90 billion.
They loaded the country with new debts and at the same time they demolished all the confidence we had built and they demolished it in our economy.
And the worst part? Capital controls are still closing businesses and stifling the economy.
Conclusion: in 7 months everything got worse.
Compare how the country was, how the economy was, how we were in January when we delivered and how we are today in early September.
And only this comparison will show and prove that in January the country and the citizens were better off, we were hoping, we were optimistic.
The evil is not over yet.
We are counting damages, the wounds have not closed, the consequences have not stopped.
The only new thing that Mr Tsipras has finally brought is the new memorandum.
He's the Prime Minister of the 60 euro and he brought this memorandum which binds us for the next three years.
Well, what went wrong? Many, many things.
And all of this leaves no room for a second chance, which he is asking for.
They leave no room for any more experiments, the country can't afford that.
Politics, after all, is not just about faces.
Politics is also about decisions.
And the decisions taken in the 7 months were one worse than the other.
They were deteriorating at a geometric rate.
They started inconsistent, continued to be unworkable, became costly, ended up being disastrous.
So the questions today are many.
Did we all learn something from all that happened?
Have we learned that what is finally needed is consensus, cooperation, moderation, approaches to problems from all of us together and discussion?
Did we understand that the country has no more time to waste?
Did we understand that the country needs a manager?
Did we understand that without credibility, without solvency, the country is going nowhere?
So let us have no illusions.
The first task of our government, with the Prime Minister and the New Democracy as its core, is to restore the trust that has been shattered in recent months.
The confidence of our partners in the country, the confidence of investors in the prospects of our economy, the confidence of our citizens in the banking system, in the state, in politics, in the institutions.
The next government with New Democracy at its core is of crucial importance because all this can only be done through national efforts, only with people and parties that believe in the national team.
They only happen with individuals and parties who believe that we need another way, a more collective way, to move forward.
And I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate the National Basketball Team because I am in Thessaloniki, which is a basketball team for its qualification to the 8th round.
So, simply and clearly, I stress that the country today needs a new model of more effective governance that guarantees stability.
A new model that brings investment, business, jobs.
A new model that improves the real economy every day.
So I'm talking about a new way of governance, a new role that political leaders have to play.
I am talking about the need to move away from the miserable and arrogant things we have experienced in recent months.
We must put first and foremost and first of all SYRIZA and Tsipras the we and not the I. For
8 years he told us he would come to inaugurate the exhibition.
What is important is that there is Greece, that Thessaloniki has the infrastructure it needs, that the exhibition takes place and that whichever Prime Minister the citizens choose can come and inaugurate it.
Therefore, it is very likely that next year we will do the inauguration.
This model that I am telling you about, I pledge to implement it from 21 September when, God willing and people willing, I will be Prime Minister.
So I am planning, first of all, a national governance group.
A government that will ensure stability and normality.
It will seek agreements, compositions, collaborations.
With all political forces without exception.
But above all with all the institutions.
A Government with capable, deserving and determined people to take decisions and promote the necessary changes.
A Government of all Greeks.
Second, a national negotiating team.
A team composed of executives with specific knowledge and experience.
Executives who express and engage the political forces as broadly as possible.
We want the participation of all political forces, even those that may not be in the coalition.
I understand that Mr Tsipras finds it difficult to believe that he will be second and will be in a government with Prime Minister Meimarakis, but he has to be in the national negotiating team, he is obliged to be, since this memorandum is his own work.
And of course, above all, we are asking for the participation of the executives who negotiated this agreement and who know what is on the table and what they left under the table.
They know what the queues are.
I stress that the negotiation will be continuous, it will be about the implementation of the programme, about the improvements that are possible, but also about the public debt.
And this is of major importance.
Third, a national planning team.
These three groups should be done immediately in September and at the latest in early October.
The national planning group will be composed of representatives of stakeholders, social partners, scientists and technocrats
and will look to the medium term.
Its aim is to draw up and present by spring '16 a coherent, comprehensive plan covering all sectors and all regions of the country.
A plan that has measurable objectives, a specific timetable for its achievement.
A plan that will not change in its basic objectives from government to government.
It is time for one man to stop tearing down and the other man to stop building.
We have no more room for manoeuvre.
I stress every time that from 2009 with Kostas Karamanlis to 2015 with Vassiliki Thanou, we changed 7 prime ministers in six years.
You understand how difficult it is to plan and to implement the plans.
Fortunately, there was the Samaras Government that kept the country firmly at the helm and we were able to implement many of the necessary decisions.
So, fully aware of the problems facing society, the difficulties and the risks that lie ahead,
this national planning group will present and propose to all a new pact for social and economic development.
A pact that can give back to all Greek women, to all Greeks, especially to our youth, to give them back the right to dream, to let our youth try to build Greece as they wish.
To be able to realise their dreams.
A pact that will be a basic compass for us, whether governments change, whether regional governors change, whether mayors change.
I think that should be the constant compass, so we should all agree on at least the basics.
This will move along 7 axes.
The first axis concerns the changes foreseen in the new agreement to restore lost confidence, boost liquidity, restart the economy and create a new investment environment.
As soon as we are sworn in, we will present a fiscally disciplined budget that shows the new government's willingness to settle down and get serious about moving forward.
We will have three objectives from this particular course.
Jobs, jobs, jobs, jobs.
This is what the Greek is interested in.
So that he can earn an income again.
Key priority we will have.
Which we have to complete in '15, because '15 is going away.
Three months left for everybody - everybody.
It must be the new recapitalisation of credit institutions, including the non-systemic banks, which is necessary to blood the real economy.
This is a need, which has arisen in its entirety, unfortunately, since the first half of '15, with the responsibility of Tsipras and Kamenos, and cannot be prolonged.
A crucial factor in the same axis is the completion, again within the timeframe, of the next evaluation, which has to be done in November, in order to release the next tranche that the country has to receive.
This is €3 billion, part of which, I pledge now, will be used to repay public debts to private individuals and slowly be channelled into the real economy.
A key tool in this axis is the so-called Juncker package of 35 billion.
These are the 20 billion resources from the new NSRF and 15 billion from the CAP,
which we, our government, secured for the 2014-2020 programming period.
These are resources that the outgoing government was unable to mobilise, not even to the slightest extent, and they are needed.
We want to and can use them without any delay.
The same axis includes promoting changes to create a favourable climate for new investment and facilitate business activity.
And we have to say again here that we are the party that does not believe that profit has a criminal role.
We decriminalise profit,
as long as it results from sound entrepreneurship and within the rules of transparency.
We need to further simplify licensing procedures,
reduce bureaucracy
and increase transparency.
There are also interventions to enhance competitiveness, with the aim of reducing production costs and prices.
They are also labour market regulations, but in line with European and international best practices.
Of major importance, in my opinion, is the intensification of the programme of privatisation
and the use of public assets.
And we tell you this clearly.
The aim is not only to reduce debt, but also to boost growth.
It is a parallel between investment and new jobs.
Tax policy is also part of the same axis, as we have already explained.
It includes simplifying the tax system, ensuring stability over a decade, and streamlining the tax administration.
But it also includes the gradual reduction of tax rates that is planned,
always in line with the recovery of the economy and the fight against tax evasion.
The main objective of these changes is to get the engines of growth going, to improve the business environment so that the businesses that have stood up,
because many have knelt but many have also stood and we want those of us who are standing to pick up those who have knelt trying to stand in this difficult climate.
Because they are heroes too.
So, with one word, from the day after the elections, all of us, my colleagues, the parliamentary team of New Democracy, the executives, we are getting to work to bring investments, to bring jobs, to open new jobs.
That, if you like, is a glaring difference with the coalition government that just left.
We bring in business, they take it away.
They did it in the case of COSCO, they did it in the case of cruise, they did it in the case of Elliniko, they did it in the case of airports, they did it in Skouries.
And here I want to stress that we are touched and feel the struggle of the workers and their families to keep the jobs that some people are so illegally trying to cut.
The second pillar of our plan is the final solution for the sustainability of public debt and the
stability of public finances, which will be reflected in the new budget that will be confirmed on a monthly basis.
This stabilization is going to serve as a basis for the improvement of the terms of agreement accepted by the outgoing government.
Improvement that can be both in terms of reducing taxes and helping the weaker social strata.
In the same axis we also include the final solution to the problem of the sustainability of public debt,
because in the last 7 months, due to the disastrous manipulations of the SYRIZA-ANEL coalition government, the issue must be examined.
When we left the debt, the circumstances were different.
Today, after 7 months of disastrous governance, we have to look at that too.
I want to point out that the decision taken at the Summit on 12 July 2015, which Mr Tsipras boasts about and spoke from Thessaloniki, essentially refers to the commitment made at the Eurogroup in November 2012.
And so that everyone does not say what they want, I would like to make it clear that this new decision signed by Mr Tsipras explicitly excludes any thought of a haircut.
Whereas the 2012 decision was completely different.
In addition to all this, we intend to develop targeted actions to reduce spending, so as to accelerate tax cuts.
That is, to repeat what we have done on the removal of the 23% VAT on private education, already submitting a proposal to cut operating costs by €150 million.
I also underline that it is our decision to proceed with the immediate activation of the Fiscal Council for the control of public expenditure.
It is a basic requirement to exclude any possibility of waste.
The third axis in the plan we are proposing is the national productive reconstruction plan.
The central objective of this axis is to exploit the comparative advantages of our country.
So we are investing first and foremost in education, in research, in innovation, which are the engines of a strong growth dynamic.
Our immediate priority is to upgrade the quality of the education system away from old and bankrupt ideologies.
But also to link it more effectively to the needs of the labour market.
At the same time, we are moving towards establishing a coordinator for innovation and youth entrepreneurship, because there are many programmes in Europe for young people.
As far as tourism, the country's great advantage, is concerned, we are placing even greater emphasis on upgrading quality, extending the duration and diversifying the forms: winter, medical, religious tourism.
As far as primary production, agriculture, livestock, fisheries and the processing of agricultural products are concerned, the immediate objective is to increase the domestic value added after processing and to promote them on international markets.
I repeat once again what I said in Parliament before the elections were called and no one can accuse us of being a pre-election announcement, that the commitments made by the outgoing Government on the OGA and the taxation of farmers as signed by Mr.Tsipras cannot be accepted in this way.
We will discuss them again and try to improve them.
This is because, if they were accepted in their entirety, they would do injustice to small farmers, to professional farmers.
They would block the way for young farmers, they would damage the competitiveness of our products.
We will fight for substantial changes.
I do not promise that we will tear up the article that mentions these changes.
But I am committed that we will fight so that primary production, the primary sector, can exist and be able to carry out its movement and dynamic processing.
As far as shipping is concerned, Greece's leading position in the world needs to be combined with the development of an active shipping centre in our country.
I am surprised and I want to say publicly what I heard from the shipowners that the Minister responsible did not even accept them.
So much complexity towards shipowners?
So much complexity towards them, towards the shipping world, which contributes so much to the national economy?
We, together with the shipping world, will go ahead to seek and provide appropriate incentives to
help attract capital
and stimulate employment.
On energy, we are aiming for an ambitious strategic plan to put the country on the regional energy map.
And I make it clear that our decision to speed up the procedures for the exploitation of the underwater mineral wealth is a given.
The country is reducing its energy dependence and we are achieving this with new gas pipelines and investments in the energy production sector.
At the same time, we are developing energy upgrade programmes for residential and public buildings.
As far as culture is concerned, I want to stress that it is an integral part of our national identity, of our national wealth.
The protection, promotion and promotion of our cultural heritage, including the Greek tradition
, as well as the support of contemporary intellectual and artistic creation is our obligation.
And I want to add that, in the negative economic situation for everyone, without abolishing the basic structures of our sport, we will bring about improvements that change their operation
and I stress that at the same time no tolerance to violence, doping and match-fixing.
The fourth axis of our plan is the reform of the state.
We want a more efficient state with less taxes against those who want a bigger state with more taxes.
Our aim is to radically reform the role of the state, so that it functions in an executive, regulatory, citizen-friendly
and development-supportive way.
Our priorities include a comprehensive strategy to promote e-government,
enhance transparency and establish a transparent framework of meritocracy.
We are activating and integrating IT functions in order to control and provide more and better services to citizens and businesses from all public services and CCPs.
Our intention is to create CCPs in all ministries to serve thousands of citizens every day.
We are establishing a single registration number for all citizen's transactions with the public sector
and we are establishing an electronic procurement system everywhere on the basis of the current framework that we have established.
We are thus enhancing transparency by aligning legislation with international standards.
At the same time, we are making the changes needed to speed up the delivery of justice.
This is also a key condition for accelerating growth.
After all, we know that when financial cases stagnate in the courts, that's when investors leave, that's when jobs are lost.
What investment can really take place and which investor can stay if a pending case is running 10 years in the courts?
So we want justice to be speeded up in order to speed up growth,
to stimulate employment,
and in all this effort to reform the state, we have and will have the civil servants by our side,
who, although their salaries have been reduced, are nevertheless trying to stand up with means and infrastructure that they do not have, in order to serve the citizen.
And already in a recent meeting with ADEDY, we asked for their input and proposals for the new civil service code.
The 5th pillar of our proposal is about strengthening social cohesion.
Because here is an issue that Mr Tsipras is also trying to exploit.
So I repeat, from day one we will all get to work to see how we can bring in investment.
This is the basic social issue.
Investment and jobs.
We are therefore proceeding without any delay to activate the NSRF,
the immediate implementation of employment programmes for at least 150,000 of our fellow citizens per year, for each year to come.
These are grant programmes for businesses, aimed at creating and creating new jobs,
retaining their employees,
training unskilled workers and
providing internships for new graduates.
They are also about supporting youth entrepreneurship,
but also about supporting postgraduates and top graduates, so that we avoid the brain drain of young people, of young people, children with the degrees and the knowledge that we need.
These funds are already available from the NSRF.
All that is required is the political will and the activation of the government, which has not happened in these 7 months.
At the same time, we are taking initiatives for an active welfare state.
We are already ready and it is of major importance to proceed with the completion and extension and universal application of the minimum guaranteed income.
This application was successfully piloted in 2014 and was abandoned by the SYRIZA - ANEL coalition government.
And let me add here that we gave 500 million to the social groups in need
from the surplus that we had achieved
and they boast that they gave 200 million from the deficit that they have now brought us.
This is the greatest social action of recent years and I would like to take this opportunity to stress,
Your Holiness, the contribution of the Church to this great social work.
Because we recognize the work of the church.
This action we have had is the biggest social action of recent years
and its expansion is considered imperative for social cohesion in our country.
It is based on income support for beneficiaries,
access to social services,
support for their integration into the labour market and reaches 700,000 people.
In the health sector, we advocate continuing the changes that shift the focus to primary health care and prevention.
We are improving services to citizens
and rationalising public spending.
I stress that our support for both the national health system and every public health structure is given, it is firm and we have proven it.
At the same time, the private health sector and health care providers as a whole, contribute decisively to high-quality service delivery, and we
must end the public sector's arrears to them.
We owe a lot there as a public sector.
Undoubtedly, however, the most important problem facing the health sector is the thousands of staff shortages.
Within the limits of the economy, it is our decision to exhaust every possibility to fill as many of these vacancies as possible with jobs through competition.
At the same time, we are in a constant dialogue with doctors, pharmacists, dentists, representatives of the health sector, in order to organise in the best way the issues that concern them.
Without your participation, without your contribution, there can be no health system.
The 6th axis of our proposal concerns the foreign policy and defence of the country.
My views on the armed forces and their famous human resources, which
are proud,
are well known from my time as Minister of Defence in the government of Kostas Karamanlis.
I only add that I fully understand the many difficulties that were loaded on.
And I pledge to exhaust every effort to achieve the best results in their operational and personal matters.
As you can see, I am not going to deal with the Minister of Defence, who has left.
We, not he, will implement the decisions of the Council of State with their gradual restoration.
Because they had promised to do it, but they couldn't do it either.
I recall that we had already started the restoration and they had abandoned it, pledging, of course, that they would complete it.
And we ask: 7 months later, why didn't they complete it?
Why don't they give us an answer?
How can they look them in the eye?
The security, territorial integrity, the rights and rights of our country are non-negotiable for us, for New Democracy, they are not on any negotiating table.
And I want to emphasise that New Democracy, since its foundation, has been expressing a foreign policy of
national successes and open horizons.
So Constantine Karamanlis put us in the European Economic Community,
with this foreign policy, a robust policy that safeguards national interests
and strengthens Greece's regional role as a key country for peace in our troubled region.
And I want to underline in particular our will to broaden the strategic relations between Greece-Cyprus-Israel and the Greek-Cyprus-Egypt cooperation,
which became much more important when the Government was under Mr.Samaras in 2012-2015.
When it comes to our fairness and our rights in the Aegean and the Eastern Mediterranean, we are not taking a single step backwards.
Our unwavering position is the application of international law and the law of the sea.
He told us that he didn't know that there were maritime borders, that he should not only know but also know how they were guarded.
We know and recognise the maritime borders of our country and we protect them.
And I want to send a message of cooperation from here to our neighbours to respect our national rights.
As far as the Cyprus issue is concerned, an issue of invasion and occupation.
We insist on the implementation of UN resolutions and the search for a solution that respects the acquis communautaire.
As far as expatriate Greeks are concerned, it is our decision to proceed with the submission of a relevant executive law so that expatriates, Greek citizens residing abroad, will finally be given the right to vote in parliamentary elections.
It is a national debt to the Greeks abroad, to the Hellenism of the diaspora.
We will do it, as is the case in almost all modern European countries, and we will do it here.
To have their voice and their soul, to have them connected through the ballot box for our country, so that they can influence the election outcome.
Security and migration.
The duty of any serious state is the safety of its citizens and visitors.
We trust the human resources of the police, the fire brigade and the coast guard
and we honour the men and women and the officers who serve, we honour their contribution to society.
Because despite the lack of infrastructure and resources and despite the reduction in wages that they too have suffered, despite the difficult circumstances,
they are taking serious risks to protect their lives, to protect the property of all of us.
We are therefore committed to stand by them in deeds not in words, exhausting every possible effort on their salary and service issues.
Regarding the huge issue of migratory flows, I would like first of all to reiterate its international dimension.
Right now in neighbouring Turkey, according to our information, there are 2 million refugees and economic migrants who want to cross into Europe.
In the last few months, with Ankara's acquiescence, they have made our country a bridge to Europe.
This cannot continue.
In any case, there is a need to make a clear distinction, first of all between refugees
and migrants,
but also between migrants, those who have papers and those who do not.
The issue has a human perspective and we are human and we see it humanly.
But we also need to provide a solution.
The solution to such a serious issue needs to be humanitarian, but it can only be an international solution.
We need broader, European and international cooperation, including, in my opinion, the involvement of the UN.
The Member States of the European Union must participate equally in tackling it.
But we, too, must, without any further delay, make use of the resources available to the European Union, which we have not yet absorbed,
due to the criminal negligence of the Tsipras-Kammenos Government.
Because the Minister thought that the migrants were being bailed out and he had no obligation to set up the relevant committee to save the resources that the European Union gives us.
We must, at the same time, be relentless against slave traders and not send out the message from here that this is a country that is a closed vineyard and anyone who wants to enter can enter.
What we have seen and heard over the last 7 months is nothing but sadness and concern.
Ladies and gentlemen, the seventh pillar of our proposal will be the major reform that the country needs and that we tried to start in 2007.
It is about institutional deepening and constitutional reform.
In a new governance with New Democracy as its core and basis, the main priority will be institutional changes.
Those that shield democracy, address chronic anchors, serve the basic demands of our time, such as political stability, social cohesion and economic growth.
Our aim is to launch in the coming months the first phase of the process for a broad constitutional revision.
Our positions are well known, we had submitted them to the previous Parliament for the debate.
However, I want to underline the need for changes that will help ensure the necessary political stability.
We have to find that provision where we don't have a Parliament that is constantly being dissolved, where we don't have elections every 6 months.
And we have to find the provision that will have both the quorum and a minimum 3-year term of office of the Parliament, since the full term of office will be 4 years.
We have discussed this many, many times with the honourable President of the Parliament, Mr.Dimitris Sioufa, on how we can actually find solutions through the existing Parliament and not constantly resort to the citizens.
Citizens, through their vote, give their representatives a mandate to solve problems.
The constitution is an indirect parliamentary representative democracy.
So if you are giving us the mandate to solve the problem, it is not possible that every time we have a problem we say we will have another referendum or we will have another election.
Because this shifts and transfers responsibility back to the citizen
and goes back to a direct democracy which does not allow us to have stability.
So we, as a responsible political force, say give us a mandate for 4 years.
We will keep the term of the Parliament for 4 years.
We will resolve the problems that exist and then you will come to judge us.
Not elections every 6 months all the time.
Because is it undemocratic that a minority of 120 MPs can force the majority to take advantage of the provisions for the election of the President of the Republic to call an election,
as happened in December, and stop the country's progress?
Why?  Is the Parliament being punished because, as a body, it could not elect a President?
And are we going to stop the course of the country, and are we going to go to the Greek citizens in the middle of a term of a government that has to complete the benefits, complete its policies so that the citizens can see the benefits?
Does anyone really believe that if the 2012 Parliament had completed its term in '16 we would have gained the benefits of the sacrifices we made in '13-'14 and the course of the country would have been different?
Is that what SYRIZA and GOLDEN DAWN understood and led us to forced elections in December?
To stop the course of the country and prevent the sacrifices of the citizens from paying off?
We also want to move forward with the revision of Article 16 on the establishment of non-state universities.
It is unthinkable to recognise private universities operating outside our borders.
And we cannot institutionalise the rules by which they will operate within our borders.
It is unthinkable to send our children to study abroad and to finance jobs in the countries where they study, outside Greece, from our own savings.
Our aim is the exact opposite.
We provide high quality higher education and training service.
We should import, not export, students and let's not forget that education is a tax on excellence, not a tax on respectability.
The excellent must advance and progress.
We also place particular emphasis on the revision of Article 86. as regards the criminal liability of Ministers.
To end this, but also in the provisions concerning the institutional independence of the judiciary.
It is our obligation.
No more.
We need to restore the credibility of politics.
At the same time, we propose the institutional strengthening of the role of the Parliament and its relations with the government and the establishment of a regular exchange of views between the Council of Ministers and the productive bodies of the country.
We need to meet with the productive bodies of the country.
They are the ones who know the problems better than all of us and our advisers.
You are our institutional advisers.
You will give us the advice on how best to move forward.
I want to tell you, ladies and gentlemen, that it was my obligation to develop our programme when on 22 September you will give us the mandate and trust us to become a government and lead the country out of the crisis.
I know that developing a program is not the best thing for a speech.
But here in Thessaloniki, especially at the Thessaloniki International Fair and Mr.President, I would like to congratulate you for the good results and the optimistic note that you have given us for the Thessaloniki International Fair with HELEXPO.
Let me tell you that we have and we can and must present our programme, a realistic programme, which we can implement.
We do not make false promises.
We tell you that the next few years are difficult, but at the same time our hope is within us, it is alive, we are not killing it and we can put this hope into practice.
To give our youth the right to live in a better Greece.
But allow me to say a few words about our Thessaloniki.
For Northern Greece, for our Macedonia, for which we will also upgrade the Ministry of Macedonia and Thrace, because lately it has been downgraded.
After the dramatic increase in taxation, and especially after the capital controls, a large number of companies, as I have been informed today by the productive bodies, have moved their headquarters to neighbouring countries.
In the meantime, here in Thessaloniki, the major projects have stopped and remain stalled and I want to tell you that an issue that was raised by the previous government and I, as President of the Parliament, raised it at the meeting of the Presidents of the European Parliaments, was that tax rates, especially in neighbouring countries, should finally be balanced.
The differences cannot be that great.
Because we are not in the European Union to compete with neighbouring countries.
Because if the tax rate next door is 10%, 12%, 15%, and here we have a high tax rate, it's natural, it's obvious that many businesses, industries will move to the countries that have the low rate.
And that's why this debate has already started.
A debate that can evolve to the benefit of our country.
We are here to compete as Europe with other economies, not to compete so hard with each other.
It is normal that all these operations have moved to our northern border.
We believe that if we achieve lower tax rates, which are competitive with the rates of neighbouring countries, Greek businesses, I am sure, and many others, will return to their country.
Because they will understand that this is their place, this is their home and this is where they have to produce.
So I want to stop at the projects that have come to a standstill.
The Thessaloniki Metro.
The biggest project of the city, but started under the New Democracy.
B It was the project that we planned and started and tried to implement,
has reached the point of risking cancellation of the contract, which
will have a huge cost both in time and money.
It is time, therefore, to enter the implementation track and to be given to the citizens of Thessaloniki, complete, according to the original design,
always of course with respect to public money
and the proposals of the institutions for the exploitation of archaeological finds.
At the centre of my thoughts are at the same time the extension to Kalamaria, the runway at Macedonia and the junction of the western regional road.
These are the projects that we have repeatedly discussed, these are the projects that we have repeatedly said from here at the Thessaloniki International Fair
and these are the projects that we are committed to coming here in 2016
and they will already have progressed, we will have untangled all the procedural hurdles that exist so that they can proceed.
Ladies and gentlemen, I'll close as I began, Greece is at a critical juncture.
The experiments of the past 7 months have brought these serious risks to life.
If the country continues to experiment, we are heading for disaster.
So does the prolongation of the instability, the uncertainty, the blurring that exists.
I understand that there are many of our fellow citizens who voted left for the first time.
I understand that they are now undecided, I understand that they are thinking about what they are going to vote for.
And that's why I asked for a little more time in the election period to explain to them in even more detail what can be done,
how crucial their vote on September 20 is for the future of the country.
But I urge them now to think about the costs they will have to pay for the failed negotiations, the capital controls and the third memorandum.
They have to think about it, they have to judge to compare.
I hear again from SYRIZA lately a new political blackmail.
He said that he would become the first party, implement the agreements, or stay out of government if he is not the first party and start his revolutionary gymnastics again.
Apparently, he forgot that he is now losing the game he was selling last July.
Now he has brought his own agreement, with his own signature and his own seal, and the agreement that he has brought does not allow all the things that he says about supposedly parallel roads, parallel timetables.
It's the worst deal he could have brought.
So that fairy tale has turned into a nightmare.
Now the dilemmas for September 20 are clear to every Greek.
So I call on our citizens, especially the undecided, to think: do we want stability, certainty, security or instability and dire risks with new adventures and the risk of grexit?
Let them think, let them decide on 20 September.
Do they want investment and jobs or statism and unemployment?
Let them think and answer on 20 September.
Do they want a banking system that works and supports entrepreneurship,
contributes to employment
, or capital controls that drive businesses away, bring unemployment, inconvenience people?
These are the essential dilemmas.
Let them think and decide their fate on 20 September.
Whatever their decision for us is respected.
We believe that if they think, judge and compare, we assure them that with a government of the New Democracy and me as Prime Minister and the worthy and capable ministers, we will respond positively to these dilemmas in order for the country to move forward from the impasse that has been reached.
That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I insist, I do not insist, nor do I promise.
But we are facing the last chance.
And the last chance cannot be gambled away by citizens.
The aim is to put the country on the road to growth, a
necessary condition for this is political stability and not instability.
It is political and social partnerships, not the so-called authorities of the unrepentant.
It's a new way of governance, no more morbid establishment concepts,
it's about restoring trust between the political system, the citizens, the economy, the investors, the Europeans.
With these principles we can build a better Greece.
We can finally put a smile back on the lips of Greeks after 20 September.
I know, of course, we all know, that it is not easy.
But we can, we must try.
Give us the mandate inside and outside the country, in Europe and in the rest of the world, with an eye on the Greek people, on the productive forces of the country, on our homeland.
It is more than certain that together we Greeks can.
What is even more certain is that all of us together can take Greece forward, we can do better, that is my deep belief, that is my position, that is the proposal that we are putting to you today for the Sunday when you go to the polls.
Next Monday Greece will change, Greece looks ahead with stability, cooperation, investment, jobs, with New Democracy at its core.
Long live New Democracy.
