European Internationalism | Economic Rationalism | Social Liberation. ELECTION PROGRAMME. 2018-2019
1.Introduction - For the Return of Perspective and Dignity
Just as the September 2015 elections were held to legitimise the surrender to the lenders and the re-establishment of the domestic oligarchy,
so the upcoming elections aim to legitimise the permanentisation of the serfdom until 2060.
Just as in September 2015 they invested in the humiliation of Greeks after the capitulation that night of the referendum
, so today they are investing in the feeling that, although nothing will improve, things will get even worse if we dare to oppose the front of lenders and the domestic oligarchy.
This is claimed by the same people who put Greece in a coma, made it permanent and now call it... "stability".
They dare to present themselves as Europeanists, the destroyers of Europe's image in the eyes of its people.
Those who pushed our people to the precipice celebrate as proof of "recovery" the gel that they made on the hard rock of the permanent crisis.
The finger is being wagged at us by those who sold off public property, handed over power to the servants of the lenders, and perpetuated the serfdom that is pushing our young people into mass immigration.
They created a desert, called it tranquility, and now they are asking us to re-elect them as wise rulers.
The biggest threat to Greece is the sense of citizens that there is no alternative to a course that brings them to their knees.
As long as the fake blackmail of debt serfdom or the European Union is consolidated, democracy is fading and elections change nothing.
No hope can take root in a place where those who were elected to make a break with the unsustainable past reproduce it daily and in various ways,
while the compromised seek re-election by promising things that require the break they say they will not make.
MPA25 is participating in these elections, national and European elections, to give citizens the opportunity to say NO to this lie, NO to the desertification of the country that is built on this lie,
YES to the realistic alternative put forward by the Greek patriotic front that is an integral part of the first united pan-European movement - the MP25,
a broad, reconciliatory, radically Europeanist front against the borderless ruling oligarchy.
Citizens are tired of the endless night of Memoranda that are always "ending" by being made permanent.
Their thinking is darkened by the cacophony they face every time they turn on the television or listen to the radios of the lumpen oligarchy.
Without a realistic alternative, the coming elections would be not a celebration but the tombstone of our democracy.
This night lasted a long time.
MPA25 comes to dismantle it by presenting realistic, responsible, concrete, radical proposals on what should and can be done on "Monday morning" in order to immediately abolish the serfdom in Greece and revive Democracy and Humanism in Europe.
We invite citizens to read, and judge, the election programme of MP25.
2.Escape from the Chreodouloparikia: Economic, institutional and social intersections
Never in history has a bankruptcy been overcome either by new loans or by prolonging old loans.
In order to free the country from the debt serfdom, a radical restructuring of private and public debts is a prerequisite.
Furthermore, there is a need for changes which: protect wage labour from the merciless class war unleashed against it by the oligarchy, with the great help of the Troika
strengthen creative entrepreneurship against the predatory profitability of the oligarchic establishment
exploit public property in the public interest
transform the predatory state into a state-assistance
protect the have-nots by indirectly strengthening economic activity
Specifically, MERA25 proposes the immediate legislation of the following SEVEN SECTIONS which are presented here in detail:2.1 SEVEN ECONOMIC & THE FOLLOWING FOUR ECONOMIC AND ECONOMIC ECONOMIC AND POLITICAL SECTIONS ARE PRESENTED IN DETAIL
VOLUME 1 - Primary surpluses that abolish austerity
The country is currently committed to permanent austerity until 2060 - specifically, a primary surplus target of 3.5% of GDP from 2018 to 2022 and then 2.2% from 2023 to 2060. The
IMF itself (a) ruled that achieving this target would prevent the recovery needed to achieve it,
and (b) estimated as below 4% the probability of achieving this target.
Simply put, the country is committed to a long-term goal of bleeding society dry that neither should nor can be achieved.
MP25 will legislate a new maximum primary surplus target of 1.5% of GDP and a minimum of 0% of GDP depending on the growth rate of nominal GDP,1 which will be deposited in a special account from which lenders will be repaid.
1 In particular, the primary surplus target will be set at 1.5% of nominal GDP if the latter grows by at least 3% per year, will be reduced to 1% as long as the growth rate of nominal GDP is between 1% and 3% and will be reset to zero when the growth rate of nominal GDP falls below 1%.
SECTION 2 - Public Debt Restructuring
Unsustainable public debt is the driving force of our debt serfdom.
There is therefore no other solution than a substantial restructuring of public debt.
The MP25 will institutionalise (through the bond/pledge exchange2):
annual debt repayments to the Troika (ESM-IMF-ESCB) in line with the nominal GDP growth rate and the institutionalised primary surplus (see Section 1), and
determination of the total amount of debt to the Troika (principal and interest) in proportion to the level of nominal GDP
In summary, the proposed debt swap prescribes a haircut inversely proportional to the growth of economic activity and aggregate incomes:
Rapid growth will mean zero haircuts for lenders.
But the more anaemic the growth, the bigger the haircut they will suffer.
In this way, in effect, the lenders become partners in the country's recovery, as they will be paid in full only if the country recovers significantly.
SECTION 3 - Public Company for the Restructuring of Private Debts
Public debt restructuring is not enough in an economy where citizens owe 100 billion in "red loans" to banks, while banks owe more than 50 billion to the state (and individuals as a whole - households and businesses - owe another 100 billion to the state).
It is obvious that there is no market solution to such a problem of generalised bankruptcy.
The obsession of the troika to solve the problem with market solutions, i.e. by selling the "red" loans of the banks to private individuals (mainly foreigners), who will then, through the threat of auctions, get back a percentage of the nominal value of these loans, keeping as profit the difference between the latter and the price at which they bought the loans, is not only morally and socially reprehensible but also foolish even by 'cold' market standards.
MPA25 will legislate for the establishment of a Public Company for Restructuring & Private Debt Management Company (PDRM), which will have a dual objective:
to protect the borrower and the first home
, but also the banks, restoring their normal functioning as credit institutions.
The banks are gradually transferring the most "red" loans to the CRA by the banks.
In return, the banks issue IOUs of an equal nominal value guaranteed by the State, which the banks keep on their books as an asset, and which the GOI undertakes to repay in the long term from its future revenues.
A moratorium on auctions of (a) first homes and (b) shops/commercial premises below a certain value is legislated The
right of borrowers whose loans have already been sold to private parties is legislated,to buy back their loans at the same price at which they were bought by private parties
The CRA is committed to keep the 'red' loans on its books until the price of the foreclosed properties has risen above a level close to the pre-crisis price.
Until then, the borrowers pay rent to the DEADH (for the right to stay in their home), the amount of which is determined by the local community (e.g. the municipality) based on their income and local conditions.
When commercial property prices exceed the amount of the loans, the debtors will have the right to redeem their old loan from the DEADIH either in instalments or in a lump sum payment reflecting in the case of first home or small and medium sized commercial property the capital they owe (without interest and penalties).
With the establishment of DEADIF, the following are achieved at the same time: the protection of the first home and small and medium-sized enterprises from predatory funds and desperation, the
prevention of a new recession in the real estate market,
the remaining funds of the banks and, consequently,
the return to normality of liquidity provision to the economy by the banking system.
2 Our current promises to the Troika are exchanged for new bonds subject to the new calculation of repayments and liabilities.
SECTION 4 - Tax rates
The debt peonage is sustained by the absurdity of high tax rates in an economy where turnover (and therefore public revenues) are declining.
MERA25 will legislate:Reduction of the maximum VAT rate from 24% to 15% and 18%, depending on whether payments are made electronically/by card (15%) or by cash (18%)
Progressive business tax with a reduction of the tax for (a few) large businesses from 29% to 26%, for medium-sized businesses to 20% and for small businesses to 15%
Abolition of 100% prepayment of taxes
Abolition of the solidarity tax for incomes below 30.000€, maintaining the tax-free threshold and reducing the rates for incomes from 12.000€ to 15.000€.
The tax cut will increase consumers' disposable income, thereby increasing demand and limiting recessionary pressures,
while the tax cut for businesses will give them a liquidity boost and attract new investment.
A new special tax on banks (on the model of the British bank levy) amounting to 0.2% of bank debts per year) that will exclusively support the insurance funds
Change in the terms of granting Golden Visa to foreign nationals outside the EU (currently granted to them by a law of the Samaras government if they buy real estate worth 250 thousand euros) so that they are
given only in exchange for investments that create at least ten (10) new full-time jobs, and,
to tax with a new special tax their income from their properties rented out through websites such as Airbnb3
Re-establishment of the SDEO's indiscriminate team and revival of the algorithmic control of tax evasion in 2015, where if not for the capitulation to the Troika and the oligarchy, it would haverevealed hundreds of thousands of tax evaders of the 2000-2014 era. The
reduction of tax rates will increase the disposable income of consumers, and weaken the incentive to evade taxes, resulting in increased demand, recovery of incomes and, ultimately, increased public revenues.
SECTION 5 - Public External Payment System
In 2015 the Troika closed the banks to blackmail the capitulation to the debt peasantry.
In addition, the bankrupt banks act as a cartel that charges exorbitant fees for electronic transactions.
MERA25 will establish a Public Extra-Bank Payment System (PPS) which will allow natural and legal persons to transact with each other, and with the State, without the intermediation of the banking system.
Each VAT number will have a TAXIS account to which the citizen or businessman can credit and debit money electronically.
There are five main benefits of the PPP:Mutual cancellation of debts
Ability of the state to borrow directly from taxpayers in exchange for tax deductions5
The PPP will be an alternative payment system, competing with private banks which will be forced to reduce transaction fees
Ability to create liquidity to finance programs, e.g,6
Reduction of the threat of a Grexit from creditors as the BIS will significantly reduce the cost (and thus the fear) of a Grexit
3 In 2014, the Samaras government launched the Golden Visa program according to which, for example, a Russian or Chinese investor who wants a permanent residence permit in Greece and therefore a residence permit throughout Europe can obtain it by buying a property for 250 thousand euros.As they are not obliged to use the property personally, the new owners live in London or Berlin and rent their Greek property exclusively to foreign visitors through, for example, a property in Greece, In other words, the Greek state provides incentives to reduce the number of apartments to which permanent residents have access, with the bulk of the rent passing from one foreign account to another.4 Example: Let us assume an outstanding debt of €200,000 owed by the state to Alpha Company, which owes €50,000 to Beta Company and a salary of €2000 to Employee X. At the same time, Beta Company owes more than €48.000 to the tax office and €2,000 to Employee Y who, in turn, owes €800 to her friend Z who, in turn, has to pay over €800 in taxes to the state.With the ICSF, the mutual cancellation of debts works as follows: The State registers a credit of €200,000 (simply by typing this number) to Alpha's TIN; Alpha can now use its PIN to transfer €50,000 to Beta's TIN and €2,000 to X's TIN; further, Beta transfers €48.000 back to the tax office and €2,000 to Y, who in turn uses her PIN to transfer €800 to her friend Z, who in turn pays some of the taxes she owes!€200,000 who owes €50,000 to Beta Company and a salary of €2000 to Employee X. At the same time, Beta Company owes over €48,000 to the tax authorities and €2,000 to Employee Y who, in turn, owes €800 to her friend O who, in turn, owes over €800 in taxes to the state. With the ICSF, the mutual cancellation of debts works as follows: The State registers a credit of €200,000 (simply by typing this number) in the Alpha Company's tax identification number. Alpha can now use its PIN to transfer €50,000 to Beta's TIN and €2,000 to X's TIN. Further, Beta Company transfers €48,000 back to the IRS and €2,000 to Y, who in turn uses her PIN to transfer €800 to her friend Z who, in turn, also pays off some of the taxes he owes!
SECTION 6 - Transformation of the Hellenic Fund and the Super Treasury into a Development Bank
The state today is committed to liquidating public property for peanuts thrown into the black hole of debt.
MERA25 will legislate:Provide a banking license to the Hellenic Property Development Fund, turning it into the Development Bank that the country needs
The new Development Bank keeps (what is left of) public property, using it as collateral to raise funds to be directed to finance (a) public investments that enhance (and increase) the public property itself - in partnership with private parties where appropriate - and
(b) private investments
All privatisations are frozen until, at least, the prices at which some assets are sold recover.
Public assets such as energy, water, beaches etc. are excluded from any sale regardless of price and conditions.
The shares of the new Development Bank are given to the insurance funds, thus enhancing their capitalization
.In case a public asset is sold in the future, the following conditions apply:▪minimum investment limit by the buyer ▪collective
agreements and guaranteed rights of employees ▪commitments
for the benefit of local communities ▪retention of
▪retention of a share of shares from the state that will be transferred to the social security funds in order to permanently strengthen them.
5 Why would someone want to transfer euros from their bank account to the FCP, effectively borrowing from the government? Because we all know that we have to pay taxes in the coming years and the state will offer tax breaks to those who transfer money today from their bank account to the FSP. Example: Let's say that a regulation is enacted that €1,000 that a taxpayer transfers into his account in the FTA today will, for example, defray €1,100 in taxes next year. This tax relief is equivalent to an interest rate of 10%, which no bank offers. The government will be able, through the PPP, to discount future taxes and raise liquidity.6 Register limited credits in the accounts of low-income families which can be used (even for card or mobile phone payments) to buy necessary goods. To the extent that everyone, including supermarkets, has taxes to pay, there is an incentive to accept payments through PPPs.
SECTION 7 - Respect for paid work and creative entrepreneurship
Wage labour: for years in Greece the basic conquest of the working class, the right to treat wage labour as something more than a commodity or a service, has been lost.
Regular, dependent paid employment is presented as the provision of services by an external partner working under the notorious "blockchain".
MPA25 is committed to the immediate abolition of this practice that keeps hundreds of thousands of workers in insecurity and higher tax rates.
MERA25 will legislate the immediate and compulsory inclusion in the IKA of all employees who work more than eight (8) hours per week.
Legislate a framework for flexible collective bargaining.
Repeal the recent regulations that, in effect, prohibit the majority of a union's members from deciding to strike
Creative entrepreneurship:
In a country where on average 75% of the profits of small and medium-sized enterprises end up as tax and social security contributions to the state, recovery is a dream of a summer night's sleep.
In addition to the reduction of tax rates and the abolition of prepayment of taxes (see Section 4),
MPA25 will legislate: a "ceiling" for the total insurance and tax liabilities of companies of 50% of their profits
tax and insurance immunity for five (5) years for start-ups.
2.2WORKING WITH THE WEAK: Fighting the Humanitarian Crisis, Labour, Insurance
Humanitarian Crisis:Every society is judged by the way it treats its weaker members.
Over the last ten years, the greatest cost of the crisis has been borne by the weakest shoulders.
This national shame must end.
MPA25 will legislate to directly support economically weaker families by providing a minimum guaranteed income (MGA) to those who are officially below the poverty line as defined in 2010, so that no family has to live below this line.
At the same time, MP25 is committed to the full maintenance of the current disability, child benefits, etc.
In the first phase, the ETR will be paid by registering the required credits on the account of the families concerned within the new FTA system (see Section 5 above).
[To the extent that everyone, e.g. supermarkets, has taxes to pay, there is an incentive to accept electronic payments via FTA.]
In a second phase, a percentage of the increase in public revenues will be used to pay the ETR with the aim of gradually replacing up to 50% of payments initially to be made via PPI with transfers to the bank accounts of beneficiaries.
Employment: Harsh austerity cannot crush people in wage employment without first stripping them of all rights.
Necessary conditions for labour rights to acquire substance and for wage earners to be protected from vulgar exploitation are the recovery of economic activity (hence the reduction of tax rates - see Section 4),
the abolition of block work (see Section 7),
and a minimum guaranteed income for all families (without any reduction of the current disability benefits, child benefits etc. -see above)
and, of course, an increase in the minimum wage.
Without them, the reintroduction of collective bargaining that the government advocates will resemble the useless right of a poor man to buy... yachts and airplanes.
MP25 will establish(a) the gradual increase by 10% per year of the minimum wage until it reaches 800 euros per month, and
(b) flexible but strong collective bargaining, using as a model that of German industry
Social security:Beyond the minimum guaranteed income, which will essentially restore the ESAS for all,
the current government's commitment to new pension cuts in 2019 will be immediately repealed and, instead,
pensions will be boosted by the new bank levy (see Section 4)
while the funds of the insurance funds will be strengthened by the transfer to them of the shares of the new Development Bank (see Section 6).
7 It is noted that the Troika's aim was, and remains, the complete replacement of all current benefits by a minimum guaranteed income - with the aim of reducing the total expenditure on benefit transfers.
3.Green Transition
The recent tragedy at Mati, along with the earlier flooding of Magoula, demonstrates the bitter truth that we are collectively responsible, as a Greek society, for our post-war neglect of Nature and our failure to live in harmony with it.
The post-war model of growth (and in no case of development) was based on the plunder of natural resources.
Even today, when the crisis has limited our interventions in Nature, the over-growth of tourism threatens to destroy all the assets of the place that attract visitors to it.
At the same time, the crisis and the priorities of lenders and the oligarchy are pushing the country to ignore our international duty to limit climate change.
Lenders, oligarchy and local "agents" are demanding daily the handing over of the remaining natural wealth to private individuals which will not only not make us less poor but will make us poorer in the long run - as the natural resources that will be wasted will not be replaced.
We will not allow this just as we will not allow the perpetuation of the serfdom, the desertification of Greece and the burial of Hope!
MP25 presents a Green Transition Programme for energy, transport, industry/manufacturing, tourism, agricultural policy, waste management, etc.
3.1ENERGY:
The potential for growth through the extraction and use of fossil fuels has been exhausted worldwide.
Growth in the future will come from technologies that achieve a zero, even negative, greenhouse gas balance.
MERA25 commits to:A fossil fuel phase-out program by 2040
Expansion of Renewable Energy Sources (RES) with a balance of economy of scale and environmental protection in geomorphology, natural ecosystems, and their natural beauty
Combined utilization of local potential for geothermal, solar, water, biomass, and wind turbines for energy production
Producers of energy from RES.RES can belong to a wide range of producers, which can include from PPC to "energy citizens" initiatives, as in other European countries
Emphasis on local energy production in bioclimatic architecture, and other innovations (e.g. LED technology in public lighting)
3.2TRANSPORTATION:
An essential part of planning human cities and contributing to the global campaign to limit climate change is to gradually reduce the number of kilometres travelled by privately owned conventional cars and trucks by switching to electrification, cycle paths and fixed-route vehicles.
MPA25 launches the renegotiation of the privatisation contract of OSE (aiming at a significant increase in investments in modern electric trains), the
obligation of oil companies to provide fast recharging points for electric vehicles at petrol stations,
the charging of ships docked in proportion to the pollutants they emit,
and the creation of cycle paths on all central axes of cities.
INDUSTRY-INDUSTRY:
We support initiatives to develop crafts and small-scale production and entrepreneurship, with a
particular emphasis on energy, water and raw materials
that make use of the country's history, traditions, culture and natural resources.
MPA25 legislates for exemptions in favour of replacing dirty energy with clean energy
taxing the environmental costs of industries that could be avoided by investing in green technologies
public investment in the cooperation between Greek shipyards and PPC
for the construction of wind turbines to be placed in remote marine areas (as is the case, for example, in the North Sea)
as well as wave energy plants (e.g. in Portugal).
3.4 WASTE MANAGEMENT:
The future requires reduction, prevention, reuse, and sorting and recycling at source.
MPA25 will introduce incentives and disincentives so that:The percentage of waste in the green bin is less than 10%, eliminating the need to find landfill sites
Bio-waste is utilized through biofuel production units, compost and other value-added materials
Recycling is mandatory in all public organizations and gradually in private business premises.
3.5TOURISM:
Greece cannot offer large-scale tourism without destroying what attracts foreign visitors to our country.
Our towns and villages are not allowed to be evacuated by their inhabitants, with houses and apartments being sold en masse to foreign visitors.
MPA25 will legislate:The limitation of the size and number of tourist units
The drastic reduction of permits for the substantial privatization of beaches (e.g. umbrellas, sunbeds)
so that at least 80% of each beach is completely free of commercial activities
Maximum renting of private apartments and houses (e.g.e.g. via Airbnb) 30 days in the November-June period and another 30 days in the July-October period (with a gap of at least 30 days between rentals falling within the two periods)
The imposition of a special tax on shipping companies, per mile sailed by their ships in the Greek seas in the previous year,
which will exclusively finance the annual cleaning of plastic, bags and other waste from the beaches of islands and islets, the seabed, etc.
3.6AGRICULTURE-FARMING-FORESTRY-AGRICULTURE:
As in tourism, the comparative advantage of the Greek agri-food industry is its small scale.
MPA25 will legislate based on:Food self-sufficiency in quality products produced by protecting soils, biodiversity, natural resources
and cultural heritage
Mild fishing, by limiting the number of fish farms and imposing strict rules on feed and density for those that remain
The systematic restriction of pesticides and chemical soil conditioners,
the complete exclusion of GMOs (and the chemical pesticides sold with them) from the multinationals that develop them
The emphasis on organic production
The need for continuous cleaning of forest areas (garbage, flammable materials) by local government and PPC crews (especially in areas near its facilities and cables)
Saving water by reusing it
The utilisation of residues e.g. for bioenergy, fertiliser/compost production.
The restructuring of crops in a way that is consistent with local conditions
3.7 HYDROLOGICAL RESOURCES:
Wherever in the world water has been privatised and managed, the result has been disastrous.
MPA25 proposes a constitutional provision that makes the state solely responsible for water and its management.
It also legislates so that:
To abolish the current model of unlimited waste
To make the maintenance and improvement of the network and the reuse of water a priority
To launch desalination in those islands where local water resources are not sufficient, using electricity produced exclusively from renewable energy sources
To activate local, decentralised treatment plants.
3.8 MAN-MADE & NATURAL ENVIRONMENT:
MPA25 supports the preservation of the remaining open spaces, such as Elliniko, by opposing the construction of pharaonic projects.
MPA25 will proceed with the denunciation of the contract for the concession of Hellenikon as a first sign of writing for the protection of citizens' rights against the greedy oligarchy.
Taking the political cost to clash with small and medium sized businesses who, also, demand the right to privatize public space (either in the context of "legalization of arbitrary buildings" or, e.g, or in theconversion of our beaches into a place for renting sunbeds/umbrellas)
Legislation to ensure that areas such as Mati are not rebuilt as they were, as a sign that Greek society is learning from its mistakes.
Completion of cadastre, land use, forestry maps, maritime spatial planning, coastal areas, and the ratification of the relevant European Treaties.
3.9 ANIMAL RIGHTS:
A society that is barbaric towards animals cannot boast of being humane.
MERA25 will legislate:Prohibiting the keeping of tethered dogs, confinement of animals or birds in suffocating spaces or conditions,
as well as feeding animals intended for our table with feed that goes against nature and their/our health
Morally and materially supporting animal welfare and volunteer organizations that assist in the welfare of stray animals
Preventing the killing of living creatures for entertainment purposes and the gradual transition from hunting to teaching Greeks to visit Nature in order to observe and photograph animals in their natural environment - instead of shooting them
4.Education-Culture-Media
In the time of the collapse of Greek capitalism, public education and cultural actions that, before 2010, were not without a huge blow,
were financed by the state or by state-owned oligarchs.
At the same time, in a country where culture and aesthetics are affected at every moment by media owned by the oligarchs,
whose survival is based on the liquidity indirectly provided by the Troika, it is normal that the reproduction of the Hrododoulos estate is intertwined with the degradation of our cultural environment.
On the other hand, the crisis has brought the flourishing of new cultural, extra-systemic actions that give rise to the hope that, just as the generation of the 1930s "brought" culture out of the crisis, so will the generation of the 1990s.
4.1EDUCATION:
MPA25 believes that the degradation of education and literacy in the "Hellenic serfdom" is so deep, and its roots so strong, that no government can bring about the educational revolution that is needed.
At least eight pathologies require a cross-party approach that goes beyond the partisan debates inside and outside the House:
The atavistic attachment of students and their families to the "institution" of the tutorial, even when it is clear that it offers nothing
Society's addiction to the passive reproduction of information, which it even identifies with the "objective evaluation" of our young people
The relative indifference of our society to the quality of education they acquire from schools and universities in relation to the ardent desire for (ultimately) discredited diplomas and degrees
A society that ignores the crucial difference between information and skill, education and literacy, and knowledge and wisdom
Left-wing student factions insisting on labour rights that are impossible for universities to deliver within a capitalist system that systematically generates unemployment and underemployment (Note: If this were possible, why do they oppose capitalism?)
Conservative student factions that talk about excellence when they invest in the transaction and collaborate with professors and interests that reproduce unreliability
Low-paid professors who support parasitic research projects that ultimately legitimize their low salaries but, at the same time, protect them from competition from professors who would come from abroad if the salaries were higher
Dominance of a perverse concept of meritocracy that, in fact, masks the reality that, in the end, it is the privileged children who thrive on the basis of a brutal class reproduction.
All these pathologies require the creation of a long-term,
non-partisan national council that will plan, and propose to Parliament, periodic reforms in the field of education.
MERA25 will establish a Candidates' Consultative Council & CITIZENS' ELECTED REPRESENTATIVES (INTER-CONFERENCE) EDUCATION & EDUCATION
The FORMATION & EDUCATION will formulate education policy through an ongoing, non-partisan dialogue involving citizens beyond the education guilds or parties
In order to ensure the uninterrupted operation of the MULTI-CONTROL & EDUCATION, its membership will consist of 300 citizens,
of which 100 will be selected by lottery from the active teachers of the country (10 kindergarten teachers, 30 primary school teachers, 30 high school teachers, 30 university teachers),
100 will be selected by lot from the total population of the country (all with rolling two-year terms)
while the remaining 100 will be appointed by the parliamentary parties according to their electoral strength.
The 300 will elect the 9-member Bureau of the DESCRIPTION & EDUCATION consisting of 3 members from each of the three hundreds.
Every quarter, the MORFING & EDUCATION will convene for an intensive three-day conference on a specific topic.
On this issue, policy proposals will be put forward by the representatives in the DESCRIPTION & EDUCATION of the government and the opposition parties (as well as experts who will support their positions), while the members of the FORMATION & EDUCATION DISCIPLE Education will be able to raise questions, counter-propose policies, etc.
At the end of the conference, on the basis of the in-depth discussion, the FORMATION & EDUCATION will take concrete decisions.
The government will then be able to submit them to the Parliament for a vote, if it agrees with them.
Otherwise, if the FORMATION & EDUCATION Committee reaches the same decision after two years then the government is obliged to submit it to Parliament, even if it disagrees, where an enhanced majority will now be needed to prevent the recommendation of the EDUCATION & TRAINING Committee from becoming a law of the state. EDUCATION.
In the framework of the DESCRIPTION & EDUCATION, MERA25 will propose:
The democratic-anti-authoritarian school that cultivates
respect for difference and universal values,
promoting a culture of dialogue and multiculturalism,
constitutional patriotism,
collective identity as the interaction of the Greek with the universal,
while highlighting the specificities of each local area and cultural group (especially "minorities")
The replacement of passive rote learning by active learning methods that keep the student's interest - and the large reduction of classroom-based teaching to be replaced by other types of educational activities
School programme that includes elective courses from early ages
Environmental literacy at all levels, with laboratory and practical training in everyday practices (recycling, composting, water use, carbon free, etc.),
as well as reinforcing the values of sustainability
Abolition of compulsory work at home and all-day school for all pupils
Extension of the Gymnasium by one year (4 classes) and reduction of the Lyceum to two years.
Thus compulsory education will include 2 years of kindergarten, 6 years of primary school and 4 years of secondary school.
The smooth transition from one level of compulsory education to the next
The distinction between general and vocational high schools (two-year duration), with access to high schools open and available to any citizen over 16 years of age.
The upgrading of vocational high schools to ensure the acquisition of technical skills that meet the needs of technical professions - and with diplomas that certify competence for specific professional employment (plumber, electrician, carpenter, etc.)
General high schools that prepare students for university studies
Access to universities through national examinations given 3-4 times a year, in both years of high school, in specific subjects
and that participants will have a score, which they can then improve, and which will be the criterion for admission to higher education (with candidates completing a computerised form on an annual basis as many times as they wish)
The effective autonomy of universities from the state (with the state funding universities on the basis of the number and type of degrees produced by each university and the research output)
Research to be a core component of HEIs, with funding for basic research at some level in all areas
The choice of three productive areas in which to aim for global leadership:(a) digital application software writing (with compulsory coding learning from 1st grade to university),
(b) the shipbuilding and repair sector; and
(c) in the field of green technologies
Ensuring freedom of speech and safeguarding university asylum by creating an Asylum Protection Service in each university, staffed by university employees.
"Accurate" evaluation of teaching staff by colleagues from other institutions/schools (i.e. based on course attendance, and study of research results - instead of questionnaires or quantitative criteria) on the basis of rotating and temporary participation in the new School and University Evaluation Process
The conversion of Medical and Law Schools into exclusively postgraduate schools, along the lines of the US and Australia, with those admitted to them being required to complete another undergraduate programme before joining the Medical or Law School;
in order to release 18-year-olds from the social pressure to become doctors/lawyers because they were admitted to these schools, and to allow other young people who were not admitted to these schools at 18 to be admitted in place of those who decided, after completing another undergraduate degree, not to continue in medical/law school.
4.2CULTURE:
MERA25 focuses not only on "official" culture (quality music, visual arts, theatre, opera, dance, cinema), which of course needs to be supported, but also on cultural works by "amateur" artists and social movements that are usually overlooked and underestimated.
Contrary to the established view that culture is an "industry", MERA25 believes that cultural work cannot be seen through the prism of the labour or commodity market.
Contrary to stereotypes, cultural production, like science, cannot be done democratically:
in order to serve democracy, the artist, the musician, the writer must operate unchecked, as an individual, as an unconstrained creator.
Contrary to cultural nationalism, Greek culture does not belong to the Greeks, as every cultural good is universal:
European internationalism (which is part of the triptych of MERA25) finds its apotheosis in culture.
We live in times when the generalised, systemic crisis has eliminated the possibilities for cultural creators to survive from their work. Art, culture, museums even, are being privatised. Wealthy collectors are buying everything and locking it up in huge warehouses. Musicians see the new Internet behemoths throwing them a few crumbs every time a "user" hears their song or sees their work.
States are cutting back on donations and turning to the generosity of private individuals.
Across Europe, and beyond, art, music, culture, both past and present, are at risk.
Under these suffocating conditions, MERA25 believes in the strengthening of public resources to ensure "space" for the creation of cultural projects
, but also in the disengagement of parties and organized interests from the field of culture.
Creators can neither create for free nor can they be controlled by either the mostly uncivilized oligarchs or the "space" agents.
MERA25 will establish the CULTURAL DISCEP (Consultative Council of Elected Citizens)
The CULTURAL DISCEP will formulate policy on culture (like the ESME on education policy)
In order to ensure the unhindered operation of the CULTURAL DISCEP, its members will consist (in the model of the ESME) of 90 citizens of which: 30 will be selected by lottery among established creators, 30 will be selected by lottery from the total population of the country, while the remaining 30 will be appointed by the parliamentary parties according to their electoral strength (all with rolling two-year terms).
The 90 will elect the 9-member Bureau of the CULTURAL DISCEP consisting of 3 members of each of the three groups.
The GCR will have its own budget, independent of that of the Archaeological Service and the archaeological museums, and will decide on the allocation of public funds to cultural projects.
MP25 will also establish the CREATORS' CULTURAL SOLIDARITY FUND (CDF).
Creators will be able to forward the taxes they pay to the state as a sponsorship to creators from another sector.
E.g. a musician can, if he or she so wishes, claim the conversion of his or her income tax in the form of a sponsorship to, for example, a theatre group or a film director (provided that the sponsored persons did not have income in the previous tax year).
The Fund will be managed by creators, unpaid, who will take over the management of these grants without the involvement of the state.
MERA25 will establish an ORGANIZATION FOR THE PROMOTION OF GREEK CULTURAL PRODUCTS ABROAD as well as the securing of foreign producers in Greece through economies of scale and the provision of one-way services.stop-shop services to foreign producers
MERA25 will protect domestic cultural and artistic production by introducing quotas of domestic content in the media not only with quantitative but also with qualitative criteria (which will be determined by the CULTURE DISCIPLE - see "Culture").see above).
Radio and TV stations will pay a special tax if they do not broadcast certain quantities/qualities of Greek music, films, serials, documentaries, etc.
MPA25 will introduce a special tax of 2% on the sale price of smartphones, tablets, computers to compensate for the monstrous piracy of cultural music and image products via the Internet.
MERA25 will restore the single book price (on German standards) to breathe for those small, quality bookstores that remain alive and will restore VAT at 6% on book production, theatre and dance performances, opera and quality music concerts (to be judged by the GCR - see above).
MERA25 will establish artistic and musical High Schools and Lyceums throughout the country
and will establish Higher Schools of Music Studies - Conservatories and Academies of Performing Arts (Theatre-Cinema-Dance), as Higher Education Institutions,
aiming at the simultaneous training of all those involved in the performing arts, from the actor, the musician and the director to the technician who will be trained in the support of performances-works and in the production of commercial by-products.
4.3MME - Media & Media Entertainment:
"Today a country belongs to the one who controls the media" (Umberto Eco)
The media in Greece has been, for decades, part of the Triangle of Oligarchic Sin: Contractors-Bankers-Bankers-Mediarchists.
At the same time, public broadcasting is controlled by the government of the day, which is almost always in close cooperation with the Triangle.
In the time of the debtlordism, the contractors went bankrupt, and so did the banks.
As was natural, the channels, radio stations and newspapers were all downtrodden.
The media's only source of income was the fat advertisements of the bankrupt banks (and the sinful OPAP) who, thus, completely control the media with money provided by the Troika.
Is it strange that anyone who honored the Greek people's NO to the Troika is demonized by the bankrupt media, who thus repay the "bills" to the bankrupt bankers?
Is it hard to understand how lying and distortion have become high art, not so much to hide the truth (which is no longer hidden) but to enforce their right to the generalized lie that stifles public debate and helps reproduce the Chreodoulos empire?
In order to make access to TRUTH and FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION an inviolable human right and to transform the media from propaganda mechanisms into channels of information and creativity,
MERA25 will institutionalize the Candidates' Deliberative Council & ELECTED CITIZENS OF THE PUBLIC MEDIA (DIASKEP-MME) with a mandate from:
Re-evaluate the criteria for obtaining a television license by imposing and evaluating on the basis of qualitative criteria by the DIACEP-MME - see.
The socialization of ERT, which, in order to acquire a truly public character, should be managed by a Board of Directors elected by and accountable exclusively to the DIAKEP-MME (without the slightest intervention of the government)
The transformation of the National Audiovisual Archive into an independent public body, under the supervision of the DIASKEP-MME, with scientific staff, to ensure the exploitation and preservation of the Audiovisual Archive
The revision of the contract with Digea - Digital Service Provider A.E., which is (a Greek original) both a network provider and a content provider.
5.Health
Like education, the health of Greeks has been hit hard by the crisis.
At a time when salaries, pensions and incomes were collapsing, citizens were asked to contribute up to 50% of the cost of their medicines.
At the same time, as the National Health System is faltering, despite the heroic efforts of doctors and nurses, half of the medical school graduates - whom the country invested so many resources to train - are leaving to offer their services to other countries and peoples.
This is another absurdity, another dimension of the desertification of the country, which MPA25 will not tolerate.
The vision of MERA25 is the same as that of the vast majority of citizens: public, universal, people-centred and free health care, with Primary Health Care (PHC) as the foundation of the NHS and with a generous strengthening of Secondary Health Care.
From the small structures of the National Health System, such as rural clinics, mobile units, to the Health Centres and General Hospitals, and finally the national policies on medicine, mental health and drugs, we seek equal access, high quality services, efficient operation and transparency, far from corporatist obsessions.
MP25 will legislate for a special 2% tax on the turnover of private hospitals and clinics and a new tax on sugar, processed meat and dairy products - resources to be directed to the NHS for co-funding:
Advertisement of all posts of auxiliary doctors to cover fixed needs
Increase in admissions to nursing universities and TEI, direct recruitment of staff
Reduction in the share of patients' healthcare costs to pre-2010 levels
Increase in intensive care units and reopening of those that stopped due to lack of doctors, nurses and machines.
For Primary Care, MERA25 will proceed with the following institutional changes:
Permanent salary and bonus incentives in mountainous prefectures/islands/border regions
Panhellenic single digital patient management system with complete medical records
Digitization of all records over a five-year period.Use of open standards and open code
Evaluation of physicians on a triennial basis and other health professionals on an annual basis
Support of the TOMY plan, development of the team of PHC scientists and expansion with a focus on the urban environment. Ensure their stable funding
Universal implementation of treatment protocols
Completion of the psychiatric reform with emphasis on closing the remaining psychiatric hospitals and prevention and care in the community through the development of PHC
Intensive training of all health professionals in basic nutrition
Central laboratories where PHC laboratory tests will be performed
For secondary/tertiary care, MERA25 will proceed to:
Revision of admissions to health professional schools based on the capacity of HEIs and the operational needs of the NHS in the long term
Administrative affiliation of Military and University Hospitals to the Ministry of Health.
University and Military doctors become full-time and full-time
Appointment of general hospital administrators by APSEP. Annual reviews.
Re-evaluate the efficiency of all hospitals at all levels.
Strengthening and absorption of hospitals
Establishment of a Medicines/Examinations/Interventions Expenditure Control Authority
Lifelong training of all health professionals
Education with state subsidies and not through pharmaceutical and health material companies
Updating of training programmes and strict supervision at national level
Mandatory training in communication skills such as bereavement management and dealing with minorities
Substantial implementation of the screening team in the ICUs of all General Hospitals
Establishment of specialties: epi-genetics, geriatrics, sports medicine
Standardization and promotion of a single free package of anonymous tests for Sexually Transmitted Diseases at centralized TOMS and general hospitals
Establishment of Coordinating Bodies of the Scientific Committees of the HES and the elected NHS Academies per HES
Integration of the Health Regions into the Administrative Regions
Strengthening financing and implementing logistics
Staffing of university clinics - laboratories exclusively by university doctors
Restructuring of the CECI, elected composition with participation of representatives of the RES
MPA25 will establish the free Greek generic and return to the 2010 stakes
On the scourge of drugs that take lives, push young children to rob parents, friends and neighbours, enriching the various mafias, MP25 will legislate:
▪ the legalisation of Indian hemp, and
▪ the creation of many small units in the NHS that will provide heroin and similar opiates to anyone who requests them (anonymously, in a safe and sanitary place) while strengthening the rehabilitation centres for those who choose to do so.
[In this way, the heroin dealers are bankrupted once and for all,
heroin deaths are ended,
ensure that the commercialisation of heroin is brought to an end; and
stop the exploitation of users by dealers and of their relatives, friends and neighbours by users.
6.From Oligarchy to Democracy
6.1 ESTABLISHMENT OF PARTICIPATORY NATIONAL, REGIONAL AND LOCAL COUNCILS COMPOSED OF ELECTED AND ELECTED MEMBERS
MERA25 will legislate Participatory National, Regional and Local Councils, along the lines of the National Council for Education (see 4.1), the National Council for Culture (see 4.2) and the National Media Council (see 4.3)
which combine lottery with parliamentary representation and create institutions of collective decision-making
that the oligarchy will never be able to control
and which enable unbiased social control that allows for socialization (i.e. privatization without privatization).
6.2REFLECTION OF POPULAR SOVEREIGNTY IN THE BASIC STRUCTURES OF THE STATE APPARATUS
During the years of our serfdom, the already oligarchic regime found an excellent opportunity to abolish, in essence, constitutional legitimacy, to cede sovereign rights to the Troika (and through it to the domestic oligarchy) and to put Greece in the process of Kosovification.
The first concern of MP25 is the recovery of the people's sovereignty over the important institutions that, during the years of the Memoranda, were ceded to the Troika: the "Independent" Public Revenue Authority, the "Hellenic Financial Stability Fund", ELSTAT, the Hellenic Financial Stability Fund (HFSF), the Hellenic Financial Stability Fund (HFSF), the Hellenic Investment Fund (HFSF), the Hellenic Investment Fund (HFSF), the State Treasury (HFSF) and the State Treasury (HFSF).
MPA25 is committed to legislate immediately to change the statutes and the legal framework for the operation of these four institutions/authorities, with
Abolition of any involvement of creditors (e.g. EuroWorkingGroup, Eurogroup, European Commission, European Central Bank, IMF) in the appointment of Board members and Chairpersons, which is transferred to a new form of Participatory National Councils (see 6.1 above) which combine drawing lots with parliamentary representation
Full accountability of the Boards of Directors of these institutions to the new Participatory National Councils and, of course, to the Greek Parliament.
6.3CONSTITUTIONAL REVISIONS
The current Article 110 of the Constitution provides for a difficult revision process in which citizens have no real role.
On the contrary, the revision of the Constitution is the exclusive prerogative of politicians, their constitutionalists and the parliamentary parties, who debate and decide in the absence of the citizens.
In practice, under the current Article 110, a parliamentary majority is required to decide whether the next Parliament, after the elections, will revise the Constitution and in whatever direction it decides.
That is, a party can promise that if the people give it a majority in the next elections it will change the Constitution in the A or B direction, without any commitment to this and given the programmatic inconsistency of the parties.
The Constitution must be the basic charter, the social and political contract that determines how popular sovereignty is exercised and how a society has decided to be governed.
In the present Constitution of Greece, the people have no right to have a say on its content and whether it needs to be changed and in what direction.
MP25 will legislate to declare article 110 of the Constitution as revisable so that the next Parliament will delete paragraphs 5 and 6 and revise paragraphs 2, 3, and 4 of article 110 as follows
Paragraph 2: The need to revise the Constitution is established only by the citizens.
The revision procedure (amendment, addition, or repeal of an article of the Constitution) is initiated only if any group of citizens submits a specific proposal to the President of the Republic or to Parliament having collected at least 80,000 signatures in support of its proposal and within a period of not more than 18 months
.Paragraph 3: Their validity is confirmed and a referendum is called on a date not earlier than six months and before the expiry of one year.
If the proposal is accepted by a simple majority of the citizens who voted in the referendum, then it is added to the Constitution of Greece.
The result of the referendum is binding and no minimum participation threshold is required for it to be considered valid
Any successful proposal to revise the Constitution is published in the Government Gazette within ten days of the referendum and comes into force immediately upon its publication.
6.4 LOCAL GOVERNMENT
Local government is by far the place where direct democratic processes are most feasible and can allow citizens to influence the quality of their lives.
The protection of the environment and public health, social solidarity, the provision of recreational, sporting and cultural facilities are issues that determine the quality of life of the inhabitants of a region to a very large extent
and are issues that are particularly effective to be addressed at the level of local government.
MPA25 favours decentralised management of municipal problems and opportunities.
Kallikrates has brought together large geographical areas, essentially removing the possibility of self-determination for small communities.
For this:
MERA25 proposes the redefinition of the country's self-governing map based not only on demographic but also on geographical criteria in order to ensure the effective self-government of all regions.
Some issues requiring economies of scale can be effectively addressed by establishing inter-municipal councils of larger areas with specific responsibilities.
MP25 proposes to transform ENFIA into a tax that is entirely attributable to municipal authorities, which choose its level and progressivity through local, democratic processes in the framework of Participatory Municipal Councils (see 6.1)
where residents will participate in decision-making and participatory budgeting (e.g. as in Barcelona).
MPA25 will establish local and regional DIASKEPs (Elected Citizens' Consultative Councils) for municipal or regional districts, and each school complex, which
will determine the use of spaces (green spaces, recreation - e.g. playgrounds -, culture and sports)
and which will be selected by citizens and elected representatives of the municipal and regional councils corresponding to the specific geographical area.
Municipal social services play a very important role in maintaining and developing the cohesion of the social fabric.
MPA25 will legislate to strengthen solidarity institutions, such as social grocery stores, medical clinics and pharmacies, and preventive medical care.
Regarding the electoral system,
MP25 will introduce simple proportional representation for the election of Municipal and Regional Councils, which will then vote for the Mayor and the Regional Governor -
moving local and regional government away from the model of Presidential Democracy to that of Parliamentary Democracy.
6.5 PARLIAMENTARY AND CORPORATE IMMUNITY - JUDICIAL SYSTEM
MP25 will propose the immediate abolition of parliamentary immunity and protection of current and former ministers.
It is not possible for the citizen to be less protected than the MP and the MP less protected than the minister.
MPs and ministers to be treated exactly like citizens.
MERA25 will establish a Political and Big Business Crime Prosecution Corps that will act independently of the executive with great technological competence.
No judicial system can work when every trial is held two and three times.
In this way the lower courts are humiliated and the higher and higher courts are overburdened to the point of paralysis under the weight of a mountain of cases.
MP25 will launch a drastic reduction of double and triple trials.
The first instance is reinforced with specialised staff and resources so that decisions are documented and appeals are decided in an expeditious procedure by specialised assistant judges at the second instance.
Thus, the right of appeal is maintained for all cases but most appeals are decided by fast-track procedures.
MPA25 will introduce new participatory institutions and selection procedures for senior judges with the aim of completely separating the executive from the judiciary
6.6HUMAN RIGHTS
Issues of public order and repression:MERA25 will replace the anti-terrorism laws (in particular 2928/2001, 3251/2004) with a modern framework for dealing with organised crime, respecting the rights of the accused and their fair trial.
Minorities:MERA25 is committed to(a) the immediate ratification and full implementation of the Council of Europe's Framework Convention on the Rights of National Minorities, always in the context of the Lausanne Treaty (24.07.1923) which is non-negotiable
; (b) ensuring decent living conditions for the Roma through extensive housing programmes and adequate access to education, health and employment services, without discrimination and exclusion; and,
(c) as regards the minority of Thrace, the creation of a system of election/selection of muftis by an electoral body of clergymen from the minority itself and, consequently, the appointment of those chosen by the State.
Also, abolition of any judicial/jurisdictional competence left to the muftis, and henceforth, compulsory resolution of all civil disputes by the Greek Judiciary for all minority citizens, regardless of gender.
Criminal issues and prisons:MPA25 will work to limit the over-criminalisation of simple offences as a means of state repression,
and to limit the felonisation of misdemeanours,
the radical reform of the prison system, as well as
the expansion and implementation of alternatives to detention and alternative ways of serving sentences.
Conscientious objectors:
until the abolition of compulsory military service, MPA25 will place the institution of alternative community service under civilian authority outside the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Defence and will equate the duration of alternative service with military service.
Also, all prosecutions of conscientious objectors will be stopped and the fines of all conscientious objectors will be cancelled.
Quota:MP25 will implement the UN Quota Directive in all work sectors in line with European legislation.
Sexual and gender rights:
MERA25 will recognise the right to civil marriage regardless of the gender of both partners, with full rights to adopt children
and improved legislation to recognise the gender identity and change of state documents of bi-sexual people based on their social gender.
Combating gender-based violence:MERA25 will establish a special department in the Ministry of Citizen Protection that will receive complaints from citizens about the way homophobic and sexist attacks are handled by citizens and security forces and will issue an annual report on the proper implementation of the legal framework that already exists by the competent authorities -
It will expand the Anti-Racist Law by enriching it with anti-sexist provisions, anti-transphobic and anti-homophobic provisions and corresponding penalties for assaults and harassment -
Establish a Public Audit Mechanism of the Ministry of Education staffed by appropriately trained social workers with direct access to the educational premises to address abusive and offensive speech and behaviour of teachers.
Citizens with disabilities:MPA25 will consolidate all disability benefits into one and turn it into a special social pension of a level that allows decent living according to special needs.
At the same time, access to rehabilitation centres and integration of pupils with special educational needs in general education schools (providing integration classes, specialised teachers, second teacher in the classroom) will be provided.
We will also redefine the operation of the Disability Certification Centres (CDCs) and replace the Table of Disorders classified as irreversible and for which the duration of disability is fixed indefinitely.
7.Greece in Europe
7.1 2015 WILL NOT BE REPEATED!
The economic, institutional and social changes proposed by MP25 (see 2.1 & 2.2) are the necessary foundation of any responsible proposal for the future of the country either inside or outside the eurozone; as their implementation will equip Greece with the minimum necessary to stop suffocating.
But responsible proposals are not enough in today's EU.
No sensible economic and social policy proposal (e.g. a reduction in tax rates) will be successful if it requires the prior agreement of the Eurogroup.
Whichever government comes to the Eurogroup with reasonable, responsible proposals will be confronted with the well-known Wall of Denial of lenders who are not interested in the recovery of the country (not even in getting their money back),
as their interest is focused on the perpetuation of the power and patronage complex they have built over the last decade on a pan-European scale, centred on the Troika and the Eurogroup.
2015 will not be repeated.
The SEVEN TIMES, as well as measures to combat the humanitarian crisis and protect wage earners and the weakest will be implemented without negotiation.
And when they start receiving orders and threats from Brussels-Berlin-Frankfurt, the answer they will receive will be RESPONSIBLE DUTY:
Immediate legislation and implementation of the SEVEN TOMES
As long as the EuroWorkingGroup & Eurogroup refuses to accept the SEVEN TOMES as the new development framework for the country,
the Greek government will follow General De Gaulle's "empty chair" tactics in EuroWorkingGroups, Eurogroups and Summits.
If the lenders indulge in the policy of Enhanced Asphyxiation,
repayments to the ECB, IMF and ESM-EFSF are unilaterally suspended
Domestic transactions continue unhindered through the electronic transactions of the banking system (POS, debit cards, web-banking) as well as with the full development and activation of the Public Out-of-Home Payment System (see 2.1)
Existing-available liquidity is directed towards selective imports that the country needs and towards strengthening export sectors and businesses
The country will thus be kept within the Eurozone for as long as necessary until "official" Europe chooses between
(a) the huge cost of Grexit or
(b) accepting the SEVEN TOMS that will maximize our ability to recover and, thus, repay them a larger share of the debt.
7.2 OUR POSITION ON THE EURO
Greece should not have entered the eurozone.
The Eurozone (as designed and as it still functions) was doomed to trigger banking crises that turn the European Union into an iron cage of self-fuelled, class-unfriendly austerity, resulting in its political and moral devaluation.
However, after the creation of the eurozone, the cost of exit is high both for the exiting country and for the rest of Europe - which risks, in the case of the deconstruction of the euro, to be dragged into a post-modern version of the 1930s.
This is why, between 2016 and 2017, DiEM25 developed the economic and social policy programme NEW AGREEMENT FOR EUROPE (see next section):
The aim of the NEW AGREEMENT is to point out the cuts that can work immediately and therapeutically in the Eurozone, transforming it from an Iron Cage of Austerity to an area of shared prosperity.
DiEM25 submits the NEW AGREEMENT FOR EUROPE to the European citizens' judgment in the next European elections, with the EPP25 submitting it to the Greek voters.
But, in the meantime, as far as the eurozone's most ailing and collapsed country - Greece - is concerned, our position is simple: the extension of the debt-loan system until 2060 (and... we'll see!) is a much greater threat to Hellenism than the threat of Grexit.
The parties of the Memorandum Arc (ND, PASOK, Potami, SYRIZA) may disagree with each other on how desirable the Memorandum "commitments" were, but they agree that the worst that can happen to the country (they call it a "disaster") is an exit (or expulsion) from the Euro.
Others (e.g. the L.A.E.) consider such an exit (Grexit) the optimal solution.
MPA25 disagrees with both of these rankings:Grexit is neither the worst nor the optimal development!
More specifically, we rank the three possible developments as follows:MPA25 considers the implementation of our programme within the eurozone (with the progressive European forces co-operating within the framework of the NEW AGREEMENT FOR EUROPE) as the optimal development.
We accept as a second good (and bad!) development the expulsion of the country from the euro after the unilateral implementation of the present programme
We consider the perpetual reproduction of our debt serfdom within the euro (which is guaranteed by the non-implementation of the present programme and the policies of the current Memorandum Arc) to be a terrible development.
7.3 THE NARRATIVE-PROPAGANDA OF THE MEMORANDUM ARC
"There they go again", we can already hear them taunting, "they want to bring us back to 2015. Again proud negotiation that risks Greece's place in Europe."
They will call us naive, if not traitors to the nation, accusing us of putting the country "back on the road to adventure."
But they forget that:Adventure was not Kugi and Messolonghi, Gorgopotamos or the Polytechnic.
Adventure was the Turkish occupation, the Occupation and the Junta!
The conflict with the Troika and the oligarchy is not an adventure.
Adventure is the adherence to the Memorandum commitments,
the ridiculous tax rates, the
even more blatant fiscal targets,
the institutional abolition of trade union rights,
the continuing regime of Poorhouseocracy, and the "joke" about exiting the Memoranda because the 3rd Memorandum loan was exhausted and the Troika is renamed... "Enhanced Surveillance".
Adventure, in conclusion, is the permanentization of the Chreodoulo estate!
The fury that the Triangle of Sin (contractors-bankers-MME), and the Memorandum Arc that expresses it politically, has in store for us is enormous, predictable and, in the end, supportive of our project.
We understand that the memorandum "liquidity" (from the Troika or the "markets" under the supervision of the Troika) is necessary for them, as they derive their power from it
We recognize that the Memorandum process supports their power mechanisms built on the basis of our Debtor's Serfdom
We understand that they feel the need to demonizeRESPONSIBILITY to save themselves by sinking the country - like foolish viruses killing the organism in which they live
We see with compassion the psychological need of the submissive to rabidly hate those who do not submit.
For this reason, stoically and dispassionately, we welcome their anger, hatred and derision, taking them as signs that we are on the right track.
8 E.g. Some in ND, PASOK, even in SYRIZA, consider them as the only "serious" development programme.
Others (e.g. the majority of those who have remained in SYRIZA) described them as a "necessary evil".
7.4WE ARE NOT STAYING IN EUROPE.
WE ARE THE PROGRESSIVE EUROPE!
As the flesh and blood of the authentically pan-European, internationalist progressive movement DiEM25, MERA25 points out the extreme anti-Europeanism of those who identify Europe with the Unholy Alliance (of the deep Northern European Establishment and the oligarchs of the South) that is destroying it.
The so-called Europeanists who scare the Greeks that "Europe" will punish them if they dare to implement the SEVEN TOMES of MP25 that common sense demands, obviously have a very bad opinion of Europe!
Europe, which DiEM25 is fighting for, is one with us and is fighting against the Unholy Alliance that is destroying Europe today.
MPA25 will not accept policies that condemn Greeks for the benefit of alleged European interests.
Nor will it ever propose policies that aim to benefit Greeks at the expense of other peoples of Europe or other fellow human beings wherever they live, wherever they come from.
The policies we propose will always be in line with those proposed by DiEM25 for the benefit of all European peoples at the same time
- policies that will allow Greeks to breathe in a European Union that is morally recovering, and as a source of solutions, in the eyes and minds of European democrats.
As an internationalist front, MPA25 sees the interests of Hellenism as fully aligned with the needs of our persecuted fellow human beings from all over the world.
(E.g. We will never accept European policies - such as the scandalous EU-Turkey agreement - that harm the humanism of Europe and the soul of Greeks.)
Many say that deconstructing this authoritarian EU may be the solution.
It's not!
No matter how shaky the foundations of the EU are, no matter how much it was founded as a cartel of industrialists and bankers, no matter how authoritarian it is, the deconstruction of the EU giganticizes intolerance, reinforces deflation, and premiumizes the most misanthropic political forces of our continent.
This is why, today more than ever, progressive democrats are required to act as radical Europeanists.
Others insist that the deconstruction of this authoritarian EU is inevitable.
They may be right.
The European Union will either be democratised or it will dissolve.
In both cases, Greece must stop suffocating.
Greek democrats will fight hand in hand with the democrats of the rest of Europe, whether the European Union breaks up or not.
This is the project in which MERA25 is involved, choosing the strategy IN & INSIDE: Within the EU. Against this EU!
7.5 THE PROPOSALS OF MARA25-DiEM25, AND OF "EUROPEAN OPENING", FOR THE SURVIVAL OF THE EURO CRISIS AND THE DEMOCRACY OF EUROPE
Progressive, democratic Europeanists must answer a simple question: why is the European idea dying?
The answer is clear: a lack of good quality jobs for the majority of young people, pushing them to emigrate or accept a life without prospects, and a sense that (as Schaeuble has clearly admitted) democracy can change nothing in Europe.
Therefore, anyone who is interested in saving Europe from the establishment that is destroying it and the new Nationalist International that wants to deconstruct it, is called upon to put forward proposals for the immediate creation of many millions of (good quality) jobs and for the democratisation of the EU.
DiEM25, of which MERA25 is a part, has submitted our proposals in the form of the New Deal for Europe, which now constitutes the Manifesto of EUROPEAN OPENING - our single, pan-European ballot paper with which MERA25-DiEM25 will participate in the European elections of May 2019.
In short, our three main proposals (as MERA25-DiEM25-EUROPEAN OPENING) are as follows:In the short term, a pan-European investment programme of 500 million euros per year for five consecutive years to be invested in the Green Transition across Europe (see 3 above).
The money will be raised through the European Investment Bank (EIB) by issuing the required bonds by the EIB, while the European Central Bank will declare that if the yields of these bonds exceed a threshold, it will buy them until they fall.
Finally, the management of these investment funds, and the selection and management of construction and energy projects, will be entrusted to a new European institution to oversee and manage these projects.
European Council agrees to use the profits of the European System of Central Banks to finance a pan-European anti-poverty programme
Launching of constitutional assemblies all over Europe, first in the regions, then in the capitals and finally in Brussels, where all the proposals of European citizens will be settled as to the content and provisions they would like to see in a Democratic European Constitution of the Democratic Federation.
which is the only alternative to the painful deconstruction of the present oligarchic, deeply undemocratic EU.
8.Greece in the World
Greece's relations with the world were, since antiquity, of key importance in the development of Hellenism and its recognition as a global power of civilization.
Hellenism grew stronger every time it entered into dialogue and exchange (cultural, population, commercial, etc.) with other peoples and cultures.
The policy of MERA25 regarding Greece's position in the world takes into account this tradition and follows the axes of our Founding Declaration which, among other things, states our vision for one Greece and one Europe:
● Peaceful, which de-escalates tensions, promotes common culture as a geopolitical tool for resolving differences, and acts as a bulwark against the forces of destabilization, expansionist tendencies, and any kind of irredentism on European soil,
● Open, because it knows that walls, barbed wire and border fences are not appropriate for proud peoples with self-confidence and dignity
● Social, which recognizes that the culture of a society is reflected in the way it treats its weaker members, the "other", the "different"
● Ecological, which sets as an objective of its foreign policy respect for the planet's ecosystems, protection of biodiversity, and the global transition to green forms of energy, transport and production
● Decentralized & Pluralistic - a Greece and a Europe of regions, nationalities, different philosophical beliefs, different languages and cultures, self-determination of individuals and groups
8.1 TWO BASIC PRINCIPLES OF FOREIGN POLICY
The two basic principles of MERA25 in the field of foreign policy are that:We never equate governments with peoples
and we always confront authoritarian and aggressive governments through an attack of friendship towards the peoples,
while trying to strengthen the democratic, progressive movements of these countries,
while weakening the regimes and governments that threaten both these peoples and Greece.
We recognise the right of self-determination and self-determination for all communities and state entities, Europe-wide,
distinguishing this right from any kind of irredentism that jeopardises Peace and good neighbourly relations - and which irredentism we deplore.
8.2GREECE-TURKEY RELATIONS AND RELATIONS IN THE WIDER EASTERN MEDITERRANEAN REGION
Turkish regimes create artificial tensions as a distraction to their internal problems.
The authoritarian Erdogan regime did not avoid the same route.
We must show composure and prudence without feeding the nationalist narrative of the Turkish regime, which imprisons large masses of the Turkish people at the expense of the Turkish people and, of course, at the expense of our country.
In this light, any anti-Turkish crowns from Greek sources (governmental or otherwise) are a godsend for the Turkish regime, which uses them to imprison even tighter portions of the Turkish people.
The position of MERA25 is that anything that makes it difficult for Turkish democrats to act harms Greece.
And whatever facilitates the action of the Turkish democrats benefits Greece.
In this light, the rejection by the Greek side of proposals for cooperation with Turkey that would benefit the Turkish people is a great gift for Erdogan and the Deep State.
For example, the agreement on the joint exploitation of the hydrocarbons of the Eastern Mediterranean with Israel (at the time of the massacre and the slow ethnic cleansing of the Palestinians in the occupied territories), excluding Turkey,
gives Erdogan the right to present Greece to the Turkish people as his enemy, thus increasing the tension in the Aegean.
MPA25 notes that tensions in the Eastern Mediterranean region are rising dangerously, and not only because of Turkey's well-known tactics.
The Trump administration is aiming at the collapse of the Iranian regime at a time when, unfortunately, the only states that remain in operation and retain the ability to intervene in the region (especially after the collapse of the once formidable Egypt) are Iran and Turkey.
MPA25 considers it absurd and dangerous to tie the country to the chariot of Israel and the American multinational oil companies, while leaving Turkey and other Eastern Mediterranean countries out of the coexploitation agreements off the Mediterranean Sea
- something that inflames tension and reduces our international footing on the issues of the continental shelf in the Aegean and the Cyprus problem.
Furthermore, MPA25 believes that even if there are sufficient oil and gas fields in the Eastern Mediterranean, their extraction will damage Greece in many ways:
(a) it will maximize tensions in the region,
(b) it will create a glorious glory field for the Greek and foreign oligarchy that will make sure to keep the lion's share (as long as the American multinationals do not grab it),
(c) it will whet the appetite of the lenders who will demand the immediate "repayment" of their loans, and
(d) it will have dire consequences for the environment and for delaying our decoupling from fossil fuels - a decoupling that is a cornerstone of the Green Transition programme of MPA25 (see. 3.1 above).
With this in mind:MPA25 is against the extraction and co-production of hydrocarbons in the Eastern Mediterranean, the Aegean, the Cretan or the Ionian Sea.
The future requires an immediate end to dependence on fossil fuels, while the coexploitation of hydrocarbons with problematic regimes would increase geopolitical tensions in the region, to the detriment of our national interests.
MPA25 is oriented towards development through green technologies and innovations in the field of modern technologies in cooperation with all the peoples of the region.
8.3 CYPRUS
MPA25 considers the withdrawal of the Turkish army and the British base from the island as a basic condition for the removal of the last Wall in Europe.
Cyprus must, finally, be returned to the Cypriots - of Greek, Turkish, Armenian, etc. national and cultural identity.
MPA25 notes that there are three factors that stop the resolution of the Cyprus problem:
(1) The Turkish Deep State.
(2) The imperialist ambitions of the US and Britain, which maintain the division so that they remain dominant.
(3) The widespread sense of superiority of a strong minority of Greek Cypriots who, secretly, do not really want to share power with Turkish Cypriots.
MPA25 is in favour of federalisation on the basis of a political union of Greek Cypriots and Turkish Cypriots, with common electoral lists composed of members of both communities with a common political/ideological outlook.
This would help the two communities to unite politically, over and above their ethnic and religious differences.
8.4MACEDONIC
MERA25 notes the following:Ancient Macedonia, obviously, was completely and exclusively Greek - as much as Sparta, Thebes, Athens, Ephesus, and the Greek cities of Sparta, Thebes, Athens, Ephesus were Greek.
The geographical area of ancient Macedonia is not purely Greek today, but is divided between at least three states (with most of it belonging to Greece).
For centuries now, since Byzantine and Ottoman times, Slavic-speaking inhabitants of Ancient Macedonia have identified themselves as Macedonians.
(The vast majority of them today reside in FYROM.)
About 40% of FYROM residents have Albanian ethnic and cultural identity, and do not speak the majority Slavic dialect
The only thing that stopped, and is stopping, a generalized civil war within FYROM, which would be dangerous for Greece as well, is the idea that Albanian and Slavic speakers share a common Macedonian identity
.The right toself-identification as "Macedonian" or "Macedonian" does not translate into a right to identify a state located in a small part of Ancient Macedonia (the FYROM) with Greater Macedonia by monopolizing a name that is Greek
The right to self-identification as "Macedonian" is a given for those living in the geographical area of Ancient Macedonia, but irredentism (leading to expansionism) is condemnable wherever it comes from.
MPA25 welcomes as advantageous for all the peoples of the region, including the Greek people, the complex name of the Republic of North Macedonia, calling on its leadership to immediately abandon any attempt to monopolize the concept of Macedonia and any form of irredentism and hysterical, nationalistic narrative.
At the same time, MPA25 will stand in the way of similar hysterical nationalist narratives in Greece that divide our people and do not allow them to ally with the people of FYROM, despite the fact that our interests are common.
8.5DEFENCE EXPENDITURE
In the region we are in, the defence of the country is a matter of vital importance.
However, equally vital is the defence of the country from the Chreodoulo peasantry which threatens it with desertification and which does not allow the annual expenditure of 2% of GDP on defence to be maintained.
The level of defence spending should be determined by parameters such as the desired outcome, the prevailing geopolitical conditions at the time, and of course the country's economic capacity.
With a view to reducing defence spending, the role of the European Defence Agency and other structures should be strengthened in order to relieve the Member States' budgets.
Also the creation of a common defence policy for the EU countries, with provision for its implementation.
MPA25 proposes responsible governmental disobedience, i.e. the intelligent use of our veto in the EU and NATO, as long as the "big powers" refuse to guarantee the country's borders.
8.6MILITARY SERVICE
From the point of view of the country's defence capacity, and the use of human and material resources in general, compulsory military service lacks logic.
This is, after all, the reason why compulsory military service has been abolished in almost all advanced countries.
The time has come for it to be abolished in Greece so that officers stop acting as paediatricians of soldiers who serve against their will and the armed forces focus on smaller elite but much more effective defence and strike units.
MPA25 will abolish compulsory service, while creating attractive jobs and training opportunities for young people and new jobs in the armed forces in order to overcome the quantitative losses with qualitative improvements
8.7 MIGRANTS IN GREECE
MPA25 notes that:The separation of migrants and refugees is outdated and unacceptable for civilized countries, especially when they have our ancient tradition of hospitality:
When our fellow human beings choose to risk their lives and the lives of their loved ones, in deplorable circumstances, to reach our shores, it makes no difference whether their motivation was the fear of a bullet or the terror that their child would starve to death
The EU-Turkey agreement is the problem of the refugee problem itself, not its solution.
It prevents political refugees and people with high needs from being registered as such and places bureaucratic obstacles on them and on the helpers of these people, keeping refugees, organisations working for them and local communities in uncertainty, not allowing them to plan the integration or not of these people.
Greek society reacted to the humanitarian drama of the last few years with a combination of incredible solidarity for the refugees, desperation of local communities,
and a small number who seized the opportunity to gain power and voice through the cultivation of xenophobia and racism
On the one hand we have the planned impoverishment of these people as a means of deterring new arrivals.
and on the other hand we have an established lack of solidarity towards the inhabitants of Lesvos, Chios, the islands that are receiving the refugee flows, which have been turned into prison islands.
A country like Greece, which has experienced in the skin of its citizens refugees, migration and pride in our Diaspora, has an obligation to create opportunities for immediate, real integration for the migrants living here.
MPA25 will create a nationwide network of solidarity for refugees, with the creation of many, small, human infrastructures throughout the country
for the decent accommodation and living of refugees, for the proper reception of these tens of thousands of people who are currently seeking asylum,
while giving breath to the Aegean islands that government and European policies have turned into concentration camps for souls.
MPA25 will establish a Consultative Assembly of Migrants (ACM) elected by the migrants themselves for their own, organized expression - with democratic procedures that will be taken care of by the Greek state.
Government, Opposition and other institutions will no longer be able to treat migrants as an amorphous, mindless human mass whose views are not recorded and have no ability to intervene in the decisions and policies that oppress so many lives.
MP25 will legislate to provide permanent work/residence permits to anyone who has spent two years in the country as a worker, to anyone who has spent ten years without working, to all children born in the country to the above groups, and to start the citizenship process within two years for those with permanent work/residence permits.
MPA25 will withdraw the country from the unacceptable and illegal under international law EU-Turkey Agreement,
will veto any corresponding decision,
and will oppose any militaristic "solution" (e.g. bombing Syria) that reproduces the refugee problem.
8.8DIVISION
Greece has many times in our history turned away its children, pushing them into emigration.
Today, after a few decades of believing that this flow had stopped, the Khreodoulo peasant regime is driving hordes of young people abroad, contributing to the desertification of the country.
The least that the country should do for these people is to guarantee them political rights.
MPA25 will legislate that the fifty parliamentary seats currently given as a "bonus" to the first party be allocated to a new Diaspora Electoral District.
These fifty seats will be allocated to the following sub-regions according to the percentage of Greek citizens with voting rights residing in them: Western Europe, Eastern Europe, North America, North America, South America, Australia-New Zealand, Asia, Africa
8.9 RELATIONS BETWEEN GREECE AND THE REST OF THE WORLD
Greece must have a multi-polar foreign policy.
As an integral part of Europe, Greece must establish cultural, ecological, commercial/business relations with all the peoples of the world on the basis of internationalism
- the only antidote to both globalisation and isolation.
9.Epilogue: Dignity and prosperity go together!
Greeks today live in a peculiar regime of serfdom
where the only beneficiaries are the parasitic, parastatal domestic oligarchy that identifies with and depends on the lenders,
exploits the Troika process to the fullest extent and, thus,
maintains its power over a people it infects on the basis of the new loans it charges them.
The "power" parties of the Right and the Left, on the altar of compromise with the new regime, sacrificed their own principles:
Both the neoliberalism-conservatism of New Democracy and the Marxism-with-Keynesian elements of Syriza were humiliated in the course of their compromise with the Troika at home and abroad.
In MPA25 we come together from different starting points, as a broad alliance of democrats of the Marxist Left, Ecology, Liberalism, Feminism
- with our common decision to put an end to the serfdom and the peculiar regime that reproduces it.
History teaches us that the best moments of Hellenism come at the height of great crises
- at the very moment when, although everything seems black and dark, Greeks find the courage to reject the fear of defeat, to reclaim hope, and to embrace responsible disobedience to those who imprison them.
With this thought in mind and the realistic, but also innovative, Election Programme of MERA25 in hand, we will fight the election against the only opponent we recognise: the frustration that keeps politicised citizens on the couch, in private life.
TABLE OF CONTENTS1.Introduction: For the Return of Perspective and Dignity2.Escape from the Chreodoula Estate: Economic, Institutional and Social Intersections2.1The 7 Intersections2.2Always with the Weak: Πάταξη της Ανθρωπιστικής Κρίσης, Εργασιακά, Ασφαλιστικό3.Πράσινη Μετάβαση3.1Ενέργεια3.2Μεταφορές3.3Βιομηχανία-Βιοτεχνία3.4Διαχείριση απορριμμάτων3.5Τουρισμός3.6Γεωργία, Κτηνοτροφία, Δασοκομεία, Αλιεία Ενέργεια3.7Υδάτινοι Πόροι3.8Ανθρωπογενές & Natural Environment3.9Animal Rights4.Education-Culture-Media5.Health6.From Oligarchy to Democracy6.1Institution of participatory national, regional and local councils consisting of elected and elected members6.2Acquisition of popular sovereignty over structures of the state apparatus6.3Constitutional Amendments6.4Local Self-Government6.5Parliamentary & 6.6Human Rights7.Greece in Europe7.1 2015 will not be repeated!7.2Our position on the Euro7.3The propaganda narrative of the Memorandum Arc7.4We do not stay in Europe. We are the progressive Europe!7.4.4 We are the progressive Europe!7.5Mera25-DiEM25's proposals for overcoming the euro crisis and democratizing Europe8.Greece in the World8.1Two basic principles of foreign policy8.2Greek-Turkish relations and relations in the wider Eastern Mediterranean region - 8.3 Cyprus8.4Macedonian8.5Defence spending8.6Military commitment8.7Migrants in Greece8.8Diaspora8.9Greece's relations with the rest of the world9.Conclusion: Dignity and prosperity go together!
