A better environment for us and our children
NEW DEMOCRACY
Decision on liability
The protection and enhancement of the environment is a national priority and a guiding principle for the new development strategy.
Greece, fortunately, does not have as extensive environmental problems as other developed countries.
Unfortunately, however, it has never until recently seen an integrated environmental policy implemented.
In the last 5.5 years, a very important project for the environment has been implemented, without exaggerations and heavy-handed announcements.
What had not been done for so many years was finally done: National Spatial Planning.
With new foundations, promoting and completing the Land Registry.
Incorporation into Greek legislation of all Community directives on the environment.
Integrated Climate Change Programme.
Final settlement of the major problem with the sewage sludge of Psyttaleia and other chronic problems.
Carrying out strict environmental controls.
Substantial reinforcement of protected areas.
Quadrupling recycling.
Tripling the installed capacity of Renewable Energy Sources and their further promotion.
National programmes for water management and protection,
for tackling air pollution,
for the management of waste - solid, liquid - and especially hazardous waste.
Biological purification everywhere.
Much has been done to date.
More is needed and will be done.
Today, the big issue is sustainable - sustainable development.
Growth that meets the needs of the present without undermining the future and endangering the generations to come.
Our first choice is to protect the environment.
We are determined to contribute with all our strengths to give our children a Greece with an even better natural environment.
Greece finally has a comprehensive environmental policy
Greece at the forefront of the fight against climate change
We are implementing a comprehensive policy to tackle climate change and are consistent with our international and European obligations.
Today Greece, according to the European Environment Agency, is one of the 4 European countries that are within the Kyoto Protocol targets and among the 4 countries that will reach the Kyoto target by 2012 with the programme they are implementing, without taking additional measures.
So we are contributing our fair share to the global fight against global warming.
Our country is no longer the "black sheep" of Europe
We incorporated 37 Community directives on the environment into Greek legislation, closing all the outstanding issues.
In this way, national legislation is fully modernised and made more stringent.
We received 58 open cases against our country from the European Commission.
Today, we have reduced them to 27, while other countries, especially in the Mediterranean South, have many more.
In the last 5.5 years there have been no convictions with fines for breaches of Community environmental legislation.
From 14% when we received the absorption rate for the Environment Programme, it is now 96%.
There will be full absorption of Community funds, without losses.
Closing decades of open wounds
We have addressed important issues such as the protection of the Kareta-Karetta turtle, the illegal landfill of Kouroupitos in Chania, etc.
We tackled the huge environmental problem in Psyttaleia and built the largest sewage sludge drying plant in Europe!
On the big issue of the Land Registry we have set new rules and new foundations and at last the project is moving forward quickly and fairly.
A major outstanding issue, that of uncontrolled semi-open spaces, is finally being resolved and settled.
We quadrupled recycling in our country
Within four years, the recycling rate of all waste has quadrupled and now exceeds 26% (in 2004 it was 6%).
We created the institutional framework and now everything can be recycled in Greece: packaging, lubricating oils, waste electronic and electrical equipment, end-of-life vehicles, tyres, portable electrical appliances, vehicle batteries and industry, demolition, construction and excavation materials.
At last, strict and intensive environmental controls are being carried out
We have doubled the number of Environmental Inspectors, quadrupled the maximum fines and intensified environmental inspections, imposing severe penalties.
Environmental Inspectors of the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources carried out more than 1000 inspections in industries and imposed fines of about 20 million euros on offenders.
Tackling the problem of waste
We have planned, for the period 2007-2013, wastewater treatment and sewerage projects in 325 settlements, with a budget of around €1.4 billion.
We established the first National Framework for Hazardous Waste Management and implemented new Management Plans for solid and liquid waste.
We are closing and rehabilitating illegal landfills across the country.
Of the approximately 3,000 Unregulated Waste Disposal Sites (UWDs) that existed throughout the country in 2004, more than 2,600 were closed.
We substantially strengthen protected areas
We have completed the institutional framework that guarantees the smooth operation and financing of the Management Entities.
We have adopted all 108 operating regulations for the agencies.
From March 2004 to date, we have established, delimited and established 20 new Protected Areas, such as: the Pindos Mountains, the Amvrakikos Wetlands, the Psalidios - Kos Wetlands, the Messolonghi Lagoon, the Evros Delta and the Nestos - Vistonida - Ismarida Delta, the National Park of Eastern Macedonia and Thrace, the Biotopes of the Viper of Milos, the Lakes Koroneia - Volvi Macedonian Ponds and Lake Kerkini, the Forest of Dadia and Tzoumerka.
Also: the Mount Parnon - Moustos Wetland, the Kotysi Lagoon - Kotysi Lagoon - Strofylia Forest, the Wetlands - Kalodiki Marsh - Kalamas - Acherontas, the Axios - Gallikos - Loudia - Aliakmonas Estuary, the Prespes National Park, Lake Kastoria.
Shielding our forests
We are increasing resources for the protection of forest wealth and restoration from natural disasters.
We protect forest areas from unauthorized construction, by establishing the demolition - without the right of suspension - of unauthorized buildings in areas declared to be reforested.
We protect the country's precious water resources
We have completed the preparation of the National Water Resources Management and Protection Programme and the water resources management studies for the Water Departments.
An integrated spatial planning is developed and institutionalised
The institutionalisation of the National Spatial Plan and the Special Spatial Frameworks is one of the most important structural changes that have taken place in the country in the last decades.
For the first time, Greece is getting comprehensive planning, so that every citizen knows what he or she can do, where and how.
We have already adopted the National Spatial Plan and the Special Frameworks for Renewable Energy Sources, Industry and Tourism, after thorough preparation and extensive and substantial consultation with society and the National Council for Spatial Planning (ESXAA).
The Specific Framework for Coastal Regions and Islands has been completed and put out to public consultation.
Upgrading the environment and quality of life in urban centres
We have developed operational pollution response plans for major urban centres of the country: Athens, Thessaloniki, Larissa, Heraklion, Patras, etc.
The New Regulatory Plan is our strategy for the sustainable development of Athens and Attica over the next 20 years.
We are developing similar plans for Thessaloniki, Heraklion, Patras, Ioannina, Larissa and Volos.
The protection status of the massif of Hymettus is fully upgraded.
With the new Presidential Decree we increase from 65% to 80% the zone A, the protection of which we make absolute, prohibiting any building, and we designate it a NATURA and historical monuments park.
We are moving forward with innovative redevelopments, such as the double redevelopment of Botanikos - Alexandra Avenue and the construction of a new Panathinaikos stadium, redevelopments on Thessaloniki beach, Heraklion beach, etc.
We are doubling the Metro network in Athens and we have finally started the construction of the Metro in Thessaloniki, the most environmentally friendly major transport project in Greece.
We promote the "green" ring road in Athens - and in any other urban centre that the Local Government deems necessary - and we provide incentives for the renewal and withdrawal of the fleet of old and polluting cars and heavy trucks and their replacement with newer, more environmentally friendly ones.
We are promoting cycling as an alternative ecological means of transport by constructing 90 km of cycle paths in 16 municipalities, at a cost of €19 million.
We promote Renewable Energy Sources
Today, compared to 2004, we have tripled the installed capacity in Renewable Energy Sources.
We established the Special Spatial Framework for Renewable Energy Sources, we simplified the procedures for the installation of photovoltaic systems, we accelerated the "photovoltaic on roofs" programme for electricity production, with even simpler procedures, and we announced the promotion of the "Green Island" programme.
The island of A - Stratis will be energy self-sufficient and its needs will be covered 100% by RES.
We take initiatives to save energy
We have launched and are already implementing a special energy saving programme ("EXIKONOMO") for about 200 municipalities in the country, we have subsidised the replacement of old and energy-intensive air conditioners, and we are promoting a large-scale programme for the energy upgrade of homes.
OUR PROGRAMME AND PRIORITIES
Better environment, better future €4.3 billion for the environment through the NSRF 2007-2013
With systematic work, we have proceeded with the preparation of the National Strategic Development Plan (NSDP) for the Environment Sector.
The budget for environment projects funded in the 4th Programming Period 2007-2013 is around €4.3 billion.
And this is the first time this has happened.
The most important categories of environmental projects funded are:
Sewerage and wastewater treatment projects for all settlements with a population of more than 2,000 inhabitants.
These include the major sewerage and wastewater treatment project for East Attica.
Waste management projects.
Major water supply projects, mainly in selected tourist development areas with water shortages, such as Chalkidiki, Corfu, the South Aegean islands.
Important flood control works in the Prefectures of Attica (streams of Eschatia, Rafina, Erasinos etc.), Thessaloniki (perimeter ditch etc.) and other urban areas.
Energy projects such as the district heating of Florina and Ptolemaida etc.
Actions in support of Protected Area Management Bodies (NAGIKA 2000 Network) and other biodiversity protection and conservation projects.
Completion of the National Cadastre
We are already promoting the planning of the next cadastral programmes, with which we aim to complete the National Cadastre by 2020.
With these new programmes, all the remaining areas of the country, which are mainly semi-urban, rural and forest areas, will be included in the National Cadastre.
Full implementation of the National Spatial Planning
We follow the binding timetables set by the statutory National Spatial Planning, such as:
In the next ten years to complete the National Cadastre.
Within four years from the adoption of the National Spatial Plan, the forest inventory should be completed.
Increase the recycling/recovery rate of waste to 60% of its quantity by 2020.
Completion by 2015 of the studies, delimitation and declaration of additional areas as protected areas, covering a large proportion of the Natura 2000 network.
Energy interconnection, within ten years, of all inhabited islands with the central PPC system
A better environment for us and our children
Finally, in recent years, Greece has acquired a comprehensive environmental policy.
With a plan, sensitivity and commitment to the principles of sustainable development.
Our country has ceased to be the black sheep of Europe on environmental issues.
We have incorporated into Greek law all the pending Community Directives, we have closed pending cases and in recent years Greece has not had any conviction with a fine from the EU.
We are giving the country the two necessary tools of environmental policy that it has been lacking for decades: integrated National Spatial Planning, which we have institutionalised, and the Land Registry, which we are advancing quickly and on new and fair bases.
Greece is at the forefront in tackling climate change.
We are one of only 4 EU countries that have already met the targets set by the Kyoto Protocol.
We tackled chronic problems, such as the sewage sludge in Psyttaleia, the protection of Kareta-Kareta, Kouroupitos, etc.
In fact, for the first time in our country, regular and strict environmental inspections are carried out by the Environmental Inspectors of the Ministry of Environment and High Fines are imposed.
We quadrupled recycling and tripled the installed capacity of Renewable Energy Sources.
We do not stop here / Much has been done, more remains to be done.
We continue to implement our programme.
For the first time, the budget for environment projects funded in the 4th Programming Period 2007-2013 amounts to around €4.3 billion.
NEW DEMOCRACY
Decision on liability
[[CHAPTER]]: Social State with Cohesion and Solidarity
NEW DEMOCRACY
Decision on liability
Strengthening the link between Growth, Employment and Social Cohesion is a key priority for the Government.
During its governance, New Democracy has set a strategic goal of creating a competitive and dynamic economy, capable of sustaining growth and creating more and better jobs in an environment of social cohesion.
For this reason, the Government has been implementing since 2004 the National Reform Programme with the main objectives:
increasing employment
, upgrading the knowledge and skills of human resources
the integration into the labour market of young people, women and other vulnerable groups of the population who are chronically affected by unemployment
, combating poverty and social exclusion, with emphasis on the protection of the family.
We support employment and the worker
We have made full use of the Operational Programme "Employment and Vocational Training" by implementing projects and actions worth €2.4 billion:
Employment promotion services were upgraded.
149,000 unemployed, 31581 self-employed, 167763 private and public sector workers benefited from the training actions, while 104,193 people were placed in subsidised jobs.
56,378 new freelancers were supported to start a business,
31,281 women with access difficulties benefited from equality actions
and 63,235 of our fellow citizens from vulnerable groups from social protection and inclusion actions.
We turned the OAED services into one-stop shops for personalised support to the unemployed.
So for the last five years:
Over 260,000 employment and self-employment opportunities were offered through 70 targeted programmes.
Funded training for 100,000 workers per year, mainly in small and medium-sized enterprises.
More than 600,000 unemployed people have benefited from the personalised approach.
30 integrated interventions were implemented across the country and 25 for redundant workers of large enterprises to reintegrate them into the labour market.
In the framework of the National Action Plan for Employment, in the first half of 2009, 90,000 unemployed people were promoted to employment through the OAED alone.
We have provided substantial support to former workers and collective redundancies of companies that have closed due to restructuring or the effects of the global economic crisis.
We ensured the labour market integration, income support and insurance coverage of 2,550 people.
We passed laws to combat discrimination and ensure equal treatment of men and women in the labour market and in decision-making.
We have strengthened by law the operation of the Labour Inspectorate (SEPE).
Modern housing for all workers
From 2004 to the end of 2008, 4,170 houses were drawn by the Workers' Housing Organisation, 1,920 more were auctioned, while 2,410 houses were delivered to its beneficiaries.
Today, the construction of 1,600 houses is underway in various regions of our country.
Another 120 settlements are being studied, with 6,000 new houses to be built by 2013.
51,400 subsidised interest rate loans were granted through banks in the period 2004-2008, with a total subsidy of €444 million.
In addition, 21,850 loans were granted for repairs, extension or completion of housing, totalling €349 million.
We strengthen health and safety in the workplace
We are codifying the 1980-2009 legislation on workers' health and safety.
We are promoting a new, modern and updated National Catalogue of Occupational Diseases, applicable to all workers and all Insurance Funds.
We have incorporated, through relevant Presidential Decrees, Community Directives on the health and safety of workers, as well as working time limits.
We promote reforms for a fair and sustainable pension system
We have reduced the number of insurance institutions and funds from 133 to 13.
The new funds resulting from the merger are already showing a reduction in operating costs of 12.5%.
The time taken to award all kinds of benefits has been reduced.
For the main pension, this time is now between 15 days and 3 months.
Single accounting offices operate in all Funds and consolidated double-entry accounting is applied.
We have halved the rate of growth in health care spending, which in the last decade was about 20%.
The movable and immovable property of the Funds was recorded and distributed.
As of 1/1/2008, the value of these assets amounted to EUR 31.2 billion, an increase of EUR 2 billion compared to 2007.
8 million Social Security Numbers were issued to insured persons.
With the completion of the AMKA, the cross-checking system for insurance and medical expenses will start to operate.
We activated the National Social Cohesion Fund
We have activated the National Social Cohesion Fund to tackle poverty, social exclusion and the consequences of the economic crisis.
To date, two actions, totalling €300 million, have been financed by the Fund.
1,770,000 pensioners, beneficiaries of the ESAS and OGA, unemployed persons registered with the OAED and categories of disabled persons, received an exceptional Social Cohesion Allowance (heating allowance) of between €100 and €200.
We granted an Extraordinary Housing Loan Benefit of 500 euros to 13,500 unemployed OAED and pensioners entitled to the ESAS.
We support the unemployed
We increased the unemployment benefit to €454, up from €311 in 2004 (an increase of 46%).
We adjusted the unemployment benefit to 55% of the basic wage.
Its increments are therefore constantly proportional to the increases in wages.
We increased the basic allowance by 10% for each dependent member, for all beneficiaries and part-time workers without exception.
All unemployed OAED beneficiaries received a double Christmas gift in 2008.
We support pensioners
We increased the Social Solidarity Allowance for Pensioners (ESAS) to €230, up from €141 in 2004 (an increase of 63%).
We are increasing by 60,000 the number of beneficiaries of the ESAS, due to the extension of the income criteria.
We have further strengthened the pensioners by abolishing the contributions to the LAFKA and paid its retroactive payments of 648 million euros (171 million euros for public pensioners and 475 million euros for pensioners of IKA and other insurance funds), which the PASOK government illegally withheld in the past years.
The public sector pensioners who benefited amount to 278,000 and 884,000 for IKA and other funds.
We have doubled the amount that retired seafarers receive as a lump sum, compared to 2004.
We have increased the pensionable pay of civilian public sector pensioners, gradually incorporating the amount of EUR 140.
We granted retroactively the normalization allowance to retired military personnel.
Emergency financial assistance of €300 to €500 was given to 1,670,000 pensioners with a basic pension of up to €1,100. This amount corresponds to an increase of several times the inflation rate.
We support the farmer and the farmer's wife
We have supported farmers' income, with compensation payments of €500 million.
We increased the basic rural pension to 330 euros, up from 201 euros in 2004, an increase of 64%.
Retired farmers receive an additional €1,806 per year compared to 2004.
We have enabled 240,000 farmers insured with the OGA to settle their debts so that they can again obtain a health booklet.
We gave the possibility of early retirement to 45,000 farmers and 1,000 fishermen with an annual allowance of around €4,000-5,000.
390,000 beneficiaries, insured persons and their dependants, benefit from various social programmes of the Agricultural Centre (tourism programmes, theatre tickets, vouchers for the purchase of books, etc.).
Under the OGA's insurance scheme, a farmer's wife is now equal to her husband in terms of insurance and pension rights if she is employed in agricultural work.
Women farmers are exempted for one year from the obligation to pay insurance contributions to OGA from the birth of each child they have more than one.
We support large families and families with three children
We grant a mother a one-off payment of €2,000 for each child she has from the third child onwards.
We grant a monthly allowance of €174 for the third child.
186,000 large families receive a monthly polytechnic allowance of €43 for each unmarried child under 23 years of age.
300,000 families with three children now receive the polygnic allowance.
We provide a life-long pension of EUR 100 per month to a mother with many children.
3,000 multi-parent teachers have been appointed to secondary education, without the APSEP procedures.
Have we exempted three-parent families from the registration fee for passenger cars? for personal family use.
We exempted the three-parent families from the transfer tax on the purchase of a first home (200 sqm + 25 sqm for the third child) by replacing it with a 1% fee.
Since 2005, the OEK has also been providing a rent allowance to people with three children.
Since 2007, it has been offering them the opportunity to participate in its lending programmes for the purchase of housing with interest-free loans with a 25-year term.
At the same time, it subsidises the interest rate on the mortgage loans granted to its beneficiaries from the funds of the banks with which it is contracted.
The interest rate is zero.
Since 2005, we have introduced a reduced military service of nine months for the eldest child of a family with three children.
Young freelancers of large families and families with three children are supported through an OAED programme, with a subsidy of 12,000 euros (instead of the 9,000 euros previously).
We support the working mother
In the context of the insurance reform:
the insured working mother of IKA - ETAM is entitled to a special maternity protection leave of 6 months.
More than 20,000 new mothers have so far benefited from the additional maternity leave with pay and insurance coverage to be close to their children.
The right to recognition of fictitious time has been extended for three years and now applies to all insured persons, in any Main Insurance Institution, except OGA.
The recognised notional time has been increased to a total of 5 years, from the 4.5 years previously in force, and now contributes not only to the establishment of the pension right, but also to the increase of the pension amount.
For the first time, we reduced the contributions of the insured mother by 50% for a 12-month period of employment after the birth of each child.
More than 90,000 working mothers with low family incomes benefit from the €280 million childcare and hospitality programme.
In all OAED programmes it is stipulated that 60% of the beneficiaries must be unemployed women.
We provide increased subsidies of at least 25% in all subsidised employment and self-employment schemes for women with minor children.
We enable young women entrepreneurs who are subsidised by the OAED to set up a business in their home, if they have pre-school children or care for people with disabilities.
We support with special actions the part-time employment of women who want to enter the labour market, with reduced working hours due to family responsibilities.
We have secured €180 million to fund the Home Help Programmes,
the Day Care Centres for the Elderly
and the care of disabled children of unemployed mothers until the end of 2010.
We support vulnerable social groups
We are implementing an integrated Action Programme for the Social Integration of Greek Gypsies, with a budget of 80 million euros.
In this context, 9,000 housing loans of €60,000 each are granted, with favourable terms and with the guarantee of the Greek State.
We have promoted and continue to promote the procedures for the acquisition of Greek citizenship for our North Epirotic expatriates.
We fund the organization of visits of expatriates and expatriates of all ages to our country, strengthening their ties with their homeland.
OUR PROGRAM
Our work continues...
We continue to implement our plan, with three main objectives:
The preservation of jobs.
Supporting the vulnerable and fragile groups of the population through targeted actions.
The creation of new jobs by exploiting new, dynamic sectors of the economy, such as sustainable development.
The total budget of the actions we are planning and those we are already implementing amounts to €3.2 billion, covered by national and Community funds.
The Action Programme enables 1,300,000 workers and unemployed people to participate in training and retraining activities.
Completion of the insurance reform
We are promoting the establishment of a new list of heavy and unhealthy occupations, reflecting real working conditions.
The new list will apply to new entrants to the labour market and not to workers already in the heavy and unhealthy regime.
We are tackling the major structural issue of succession insurance.
We are establishing uniform, specific criteria and procedures for all insured persons, for all funds.
The aim is to rationalise the system, simplify procedures, remove injustices and safeguard the interests of pensioners.
We are promoting a plan to transform IKA into the country's first Digital Fund, so that insured persons and employers can be served electronically.
We promote the separation of the Insurance branch from the Health branch in IKA and introduce specific controls for each branch.
This significantly reduces tax evasion and medical costs.
We promote the reform of the Disability Pension system.
The aim is to modernise the procedure and set specific and objective criteria.
This is to save resources and stop the bureaucratic hassle for the truly disabled.
Social State with Cohesion and Solidarity
We gave a one-off benefit of €2,000 to the mother for each child she has from the third child onwards.
Between October 2006 and August 2009, 45,000 mothers have received this benefit.
1,770,000 of our fellow citizens, pensioners, beneficiaries of the ESAS and OGA, unemployed people registered with the OAED, and categories of disabled people, received an extraordinary Social Cohesion Allowance of 100 to 200 euros, also known as the "heating allowance".
We increased the unemployment benefit to €454, up from €311 in 2004 (an increase of 46%).
All unemployed OAED beneficiaries received a double Christmas gift in 2008.
We granted an emergency financial assistance of €300 to €500 to 1,670,000 pensioners with a basic pension of up to €1,100.
We increased the basic agricultural pension to €330, up from €201 in 2004 (an increase of 64%).
Retired farmers receive an additional €1,806 per year compared to 2004.
We increased the Social Solidarity Allowance for Pensioners (ESAS) from 141 euros in 2004 to 230 euros.
Compared to 2004, the beneficiaries of the ESAS receive an additional €1,246 per year (an increase of 63%).
We are increasing by 60,000 the number of beneficiaries of the ESAS, due to the extension of the income criteria.
We abolished the contributions to the LAFKA and paid its retroactive payments of 648 million euros (171 million euros for public sector pensioners and 475 million euros for pensioners of IKA and other social security funds), illegally withheld by the PASOK government in the past years.
The public sector pensioners who benefited amount to 278,000 and 884,000 for IKA and other funds.
We have solved the great social problem of the mortgage interest rate.
We helped 64,000 of our fellow citizens to get out of the deadlock they had reached.
We are implementing a €3.2 billion National Action Plan for Employment, which will benefit 1.3 million unemployed and workers.
We promote the completion of the Insurance Reform, aiming for a fair and sustainable insurance system. The merger of insurance agencies and funds (from 133 to 13) has resulted in a 12.5% reduction in operating costs.
NEW DEMOCRACY
Decision on liability
[[CHAPTER]]: Equal opportunities, new possibilities for the modern Greek woman
NEW DEMOCRACY
Decision on liability
INTEGRATED POLICY FOR THE MODERN GREEK WOMAN
.. .for women to be equal in Greek society
31,281 women with difficulties in accessing the labour market have benefited, over the last three years, from integrated interventions or positive actions for equality through the Operational Programme "Employment and Vocational Training".
The adoption of Laws 3304/2005 and 3488/2006 is a decisive step in the fight against discrimination.
Laws addressing discrimination in access to employment, vocational guidance, terms and conditions of employment, participation in professional organisations, social benefits.
They also ensure the transition from equal rights for men and women to equal treatment in the labour market and access to decision-making centres.
...to help the Greek mother, especially the working mother
A one-off benefit of 2,000 euros to the mother for each child she has, from the third child onwards.
Between October 2006 and August 2009, 45,000 mothers have received this benefit.
It is estimated that another 1000 mothers will benefit in the two months September - October 2009.
Under the recent insurance reform:
The right to recognition of notional time applies to insured persons insured with any Main Insurance Institution other than the OGA and not only those insured with the IKA - ETAM, as was previously the case.
-The vesting of the right to fictitious maternity leave was extended by three years.
The notional time now also applies to children acquired from 01.01.2000 onwards.-The
recognized notional time has been increased to 5 years in total, from the 4.5 years previously in force.
The 3.5 months of parental leave for child-rearing can also be recognised.
For the first time, the payment of 50% reduced contributions for insured mothers to all main insurance institutions for the main pension sector has been introduced.
The payment of the 50% reduced contributions applies for the first 12 months of employment after the birth of each child.
A working mother insured by IKA - ETAM is entitled to a special maternity protection leave of 6 months, which is granted after the end of the maternity leave.
Pregnant unemployed women are no longer removed from the unemployment register, as was the case until 2004.
The OAED family allowance has been increased by 40%.
For pregnant and mother prisoners who want to work, a preferential counting of the sentence is introduced.
More than 90,000 working mothers with low family incomes and precarious jobs benefit from the €280 million childcare and accommodation programme.
...to ensure new opportunities for all women
In all OAED programmes, 60% of the beneficiaries must be unemployed women, and we have increased the age limits for women with minor children.
We provide increased subsidies (at least 25%) in all subsidised employment and self-employment schemes for women with at least one minor child.
We enable young female entrepreneurs who are subsidised by the Employment Agency to set up their own business in their place of residence, if they are the mother of a child of pre-school age or a carer of disabled relatives.
We support with special actions the part-time employment of women who want to enter the labour market, with reduced working hours due to family responsibilities.
We have secured €180 million to fund the "Help at Home" programmes, the Day Care Centres for the Elderly and the care of disabled children of unemployed mothers by the end of 2010.
...to support the Greek farmer
Under the OGA's insurance scheme, a farmer's wife is now equal to her husband in terms of insurance and pension rights if she is employed in agricultural work.
A Greek farmer, directly or indirectly insured, is entitled to the social and health benefits of the OGA.
The OGA grants a full basic pension to farmers who have the legal requirements but are not insured in the Main Insurance Branch.
Women farmers are exempted for one year from the obligation to pay insurance contributions to the Agency from the birth of each child they have in addition to one (Law 3227/2004).
We support women's rural entrepreneurship:
Since 2004, 54 women's agrotourism cooperatives have been established (whereas in the whole period from 1985 to 2003, about 100 were established).
Under the Business Programme "Rural Development - Reconstruction of the Countryside", the rates of female investment have increased dramatically.
300 women's investment projects were financially supported by the LEADER+ Initiative.
.. . to support every woman in need
The Advisory Centres of the Research Centre for Equality Issues (C.R.E.T.I.), which operate in Athens, Thessaloniki, Volos and Heraklion, were strengthened, while five (5) new Branches were opened in Kalamata, Amfissa, Preveza and Komotini.
In previous years, they provided support and information to 2,820 women from vulnerable social groups.
The two Counselling Centres for battered women of the General Secretariat for Equality in Athens and Piraeus continue to operate successfully.
Equal opportunities, new possibilities for the modern Greek woman
The modern woman has more than one role.
She can be a worker, she can be a mother, she can be an active member of our society.
The role of the state is to ensure that every woman has equal opportunities in employment and social life, new opportunities to fulfil all her roles and - of course - care when she is in need.
With the new policies we have implemented over these 5.5 years, we have empowered Greek women - in urban centres and in the countryside - and made their daily lives easier.
We will continue in the new four years to implement a comprehensive policy for the modern Greek woman.
NEW DEMOCRACY
Decision on liability
[[CHAPTER]]: Building a Better Education for our Children
NEW DEMOCRACY
Decision on liability
MODERN EDUCATION With more choice, evaluation and meritocracy.
With more resources
Over the four years 2004-2008, spending on education increased by €2.4 billion.
Spending from the NSRF programme allocated to Education reaches €3.37 billion, an increase of 29% compared to ERDF I.
From being the European leader in funding education, we are now among the top EU countries in terms of public funding of higher education institutions.
With modern Universities and TEIs
An evaluation system is implemented for the first time in higher education.
A fundamental value for all the educational systems of the advanced world entered the Greek Universities.
A new law on Higher Education has been passed and implemented:
-The autonomy of Universities is strengthened.
Transparency in the management of funds is ensured.
The student's freedom of choice of text is guaranteed.
Democracy is established in the election of the governing bodies through universal student suffrage.
Four-year academic - development plans were established in the Universities and TEIs of our country.
The professional status of 58 university graduates and the professional rights of TEI graduates are established.
With better schools for our children
The number of pupils per class has been reduced from 30 to 25 for primary education and from 35 to 30 for secondary education.
The number of courses examined was reduced from nine (9) to six (6), as promised in the New Democracy's election programme.
Pre-school education has improved. All children aged 5-6 years attend compulsory kindergarten.
Recruitment of kindergarten teachers increased, 135 new kindergartens were built, 124 new full-day kindergartens were created.
New schools across the country. We built 580 new schools and upgraded 375 old schools.
The five-year programme "School Building" (2008-2013) foresees the construction of 1233 new school buildings.
The all-day school was upgraded.
Today 85% of primary schools and 50% of kindergartens are full-day schools.
The learning of foreign languages is reinforced, with the introduction of a compulsory second foreign language for pupils of the 5th and 6th primary school.
Vocational Lyceums (EPAL) and Vocational Schools (EPAS) were established, as well as the rights of EPAL graduates to enter university schools for the first time, competing in equal subjects.
New technologies become part of education
In total, more than €85 million has been allocated to help familiarise students and teachers with new technologies.
Specifically:
126,000 laptops were given, one to each student in the first grade of high school in all schools in Greece.
We enabled 45,000 first-time freshmen to get a laptop computer.
8,000 computers were given to teachers.
5,000 interactive whiteboards were acquired for the 2010-2011 school year.
Today, almost all secondary schools (Gymnasiums, Secondary Schools, Secondary Schools and Secondary Schools) and more than 60% of primary schools
On the side of teachers with sensitivity and understanding
All teachers who have completed 30 months of service on 30-6-2008 are appointed to public education.
Within five years, 2,050 teachers are to be appointed.
Undeclared teachers who have completed 24 months of service and are successful in at least one competition of the A.S.E.P. are appointed.
In 2008, 800 teachers were appointed, while for 2009 it is estimated that more than 1,300 will be appointed.
We keep moving forward and the next day
Dialogue on secondary education is completed
Since January 2009, a broad national dialogue on the reform of the Lyceum and the creation of a new system of admission to higher education has been underway.
The aim of the dialogue is to reach a broad political and social consensus to move forward with the basic reforms needed in our education system.
We continue the necessary reforms in universities
We achieve convergence with the best European and international academic standards and the equal participation of Greek HEIs in the single European Higher Education Area.
We are securing a total of 2,000 teaching staff posts and providing for 2,400 temporary teaching staff posts.
We are securing over I 700 million euros to subsidise the regular budget of universities for the financing of infrastructure and equipment projects, student care and university textbooks.
The upgrading of the academic characteristics of TEIs is progressing
We are securing a total of 1,200 teaching posts and allocating €I billion to subsidise the regular budget, finance infrastructure and equipment projects and student care.
The legislative framework for the operation of TEIs is modernised and full harmonisation of the two parallel sectors of higher education is achieved.
New technologies for education in the new era
From the school year 2009 - 2010, the "Digital Classroom" programme is introduced in all secondary schools of the country.
All pupils in the first grade of the country's secondary schools receive free of charge a laptop containing the secondary school books and supporting educational software in digital format.
Building a better Education for our children
We have significantly increased our resources and are working systematically for an Education that meets modern needs.
The pillars of our educational programme were and are: quality, evaluation, new technologies, emphasis on free choice, meritocracy.
We have moved decisively on education reform, without counting the political costs and extreme reactions.
We make sure our children have better schools.
The number of pupils per classroom has decreased, school buildings and classrooms have increased.
We will continue in the same direction in the coming years.
Our education is getting the quality our children deserve.
NEW DEMOCRACY
Decision on liability
[[CHAPTER]]: THE WHOLE TRUTH ABOUT THE ETHICS DECISION
[[CHAPTER]]: Kostas Karamanlis
1.  Why are you now resorting to elections?
CC: My intention was to exhaust the four-year term. To hold elections in September 2011.
However, the implementation of our economic policy required an appropriate political environment. And this environment did not exist, as the President of PASOK chose to call for elections at the beginning of the year, following his well-known, unacceptable stance on the issue of the election of the President of the Republic. This blackmail trapped the country in a six-month election period, with disastrous consequences for the economy.
The Opposition would encourage demands, reactions and social tension, while the Government would not have time to implement its Plan to support the economy. Based on these facts, I have decided to call for a new popular mandate to implement the necessary policies. And I want you to know that my criterion was and is one and only one: The national interest.
2. Why have you not taken all the necessary measures for five years now?
K.K.: In the past five years we have been pursuing a policy that was undoubtedly in the right direction, which has yielded results.
The proof is that year after year, until the outbreak of the crisis, all the figures were improving. And those relating to the real economy (growth, employment, investment), but also those relating to the fiscal figures.
I have said many times - and I have no hesitation in saying it again - that undoubtedly things could have been done more boldly, more quickly. But what made the big, the telling difference was the great crisis.
I want to say, in other words, that the policies we have been implementing have worked and will continue to work in the perspective of time. What makes things more urgent is that we have the big problem of structural fiscal imbalances. In particular, the excessive public debt that has been building up for decades, and this can no longer be postponed.
That is the truth.
3.  Does the opposition accuse you of being late in dealing with the crisis?
K.K.: Remind everyone that the party he is accusing is the one that, after 20 years in power, has not dared to make any of the necessary structural changes. It is the one that bequeathed to the People the heaviest burdens.
The decrepit Public Sector.
The huge deficit.
The exploding public debt.
So the perpetrators cannot therefore pretend to be the complainants. The reactionaries cannot ask why we have not solved all those things that they have created.
The truth is that over the past few years, there have been important reforms. It is on these reforms that our economy has been built and sustained. Until the time the crisis broke out we had:
A significant reduction in the deficit.
Increasing new investment.
A steady reduction in unemployment.
The truth is that our economy has held up because
we were one of the first to take emergency measures as soon as the crisis broke out.
Guarantee of deposits.
Protection for borrowers.
Framework for the liquidity of the economy.
The conclusion is clear. Those who have seen no crisis cannot now pretend to be the judges. Greeks have both memory and judgment.
4.  Why did you call elections in an unfavourable polling environment for New Democracy?
K.C.: Because I am an old campaigner, at all levels, I know that nothing is discounted.
I know - and I deeply believe - that this is a difficult battle, but it can be won.
And I know I'm going to give it my all, as never before. However, the decision I had to make was not an easy one. But it couldn't be any other. The national interest called for an election, and the national interest is - for me - paramount. Throughout my political career, I have had and still have the national interest above all else.
In this Party, above all, we had and have our Homeland. This is dictated by our historical legacy. And we do not bargain with that legacy.
5.  Why would a young person trust you?
CC: We gave first priority to young people.
Reminder:
The reforms for the new framework for the operation of the Public University.
That Greece is ranked among the top five countries in the EU and OECD in terms of the amount of public funding of higher education institutions.
That now, completely free of charge, all students of the first secondary school are provided with personal laptops, with integrated educational software and digitized all the books of all classes of the secondary school.
That the process for the reform of the Lyceum and the introduction of a new system of admission to higher education has started. In order to emphasize the critical ability of the candidates, to limit paralysis, to make the Lyceum an autonomous, modern educational unit.
The New Opportunities Programmes for the young generation.
The premium for young scientists to start their own career.
Subsidies to small and medium-sized enterprises for the recruitment of young people.
The training actions in IT.
We know that young people are tired of big talk. We know they have serious reservations about a lot of things. We know their bitterness, their doubts, their legitimate complaints. That is what we are fighting for. They know very well that nothing is given away. Nothing is easy. Nothing is taken for granted. They know better than anyone else that victories are won through hard work and struggle.
It's the social networking generation.
Today's generation is the generation of instant information. Fear and disappointment do not suit it. They supported bold policies when some people were locking down schools and closing universities. Abstention and indifference do not suit her. It is not suited to indifference and apathy. They chose the path of struggle, the path of assertion, the path of participation.
Young people will convince those who chose abstention last June and those who ended up voting in protest to think soberly. We may, at times, have made them bitter. We may, at times, have hurt them. We may, at times, have moved too slowly. We have made mistakes. We do not deny it.
I ask young people to continue on the path of giving. I ask them to be at the forefront again. Let us all be together on the path of responsibility.
6.  What are considered the most important achievements of your governments?
K.K.: We have followed, in recent years, a coherent reform strategy. We have been pursuing a strategic strategy in the last few years:
We have drastically strengthened the Social State, the welfare state, the LAFKA, the allowance for mothers of three children, increases in unemployment benefits, the EKAS, rural pensions, interest-free loans for large families. We have increased social spending by more than 60%. That is about EUR 20 billion more.
A wide-ranging infrastructure programme is changing the country's image and improving the daily life of its citizens.
Greece has acquired Spatial Planning and is acquiring a Land Registry. It is a major reform.
We have significantly improved the investment environment and the country is on the road to the "Green Economy".
We have invested systematically in the Knowledge Economy.
Total spending on education reached 4.6% of GDP last year.
We have moved forward with the insurance reform.
Reforms in the wider public sector are also proving beneficial.
We have firmly insisted on the Island Policy and the strengthening of our Shipping.
We supported, using all the possibilities in the rural world.
From 2004 until the outbreak of the global crisis, we had a continuous improvement in all economic variables, but also a steady decline in unemployment. This is an irrefutable reality.
We gave immediate priority, as circumstances dictated, to the liquidity of the economy and to supporting the real economy. We developed, with social sensitivity, but also within the limits of the economy's endurance, targeted actions to protect employment and support the weakest.
We have thus been able to mitigate the effects of the crisis.
7.  Why do you consider the next two years critical?
K.K.: The reform strategy of the last five years has strengthened the resilience of our economy. However - and I stress this - the country will be at a critical phase in the next two years due to the international crisis and the fiscal problems. The strategic choices are twofold: Either we succumb to populism, or we dare to take difficult decisions. During this period we will implement an economic policy based on three pillars:
First: tighter control over public spending, but also greater efficiency.
Second: War against tax evasion.
Third: Structural changes, creating new structures.
Populism will be temporarily pleasant. But only for a short time. From then on, the consequences will be extremely painful for citizens. And of course it will take many times longer than it takes now to get out of the crisis.
On the contrary: If today we dare to take the hard road, if our primary focus is on the necessary breakthroughs and not on trying to appear pleasant, we will certainly get out of the crisis soon. And we will emerge with a stronger foundation. We will emerge, opening up prospects for long-term growth and a truly welfare state.
8.  On what criteria do you think people will vote?
K.K.: One thing is certain: we are called upon today to make the difficult decisions to secure the future of our country and our children.
The dilemmas for citizens are clear:
do we want to reduce the cost of the public sector or drag ourselves into higher taxes and non-payment?
Do we want to ensure tax fairness or disproportionately burden those who pay their taxes?
Do we want to deal with the problems of the Social Security system or leave our children without a pension?
Do we want to stimulate growth and employment or let unemployment become the scourge of our society?
These dilemmas are now becoming timely and simple:
Who can deal more effectively with the international crisis.
Who can lay a solid foundation for the economy.
Citizens are asked to choose policies and a Prime Minister. The maturity of the citizens will vindicate us. With their will we can secure a better outlook. To create the new hope. To build with optimism, with certainty the future of our children.
9.  What is your message for this election?
CC: We have no room for populism.
So this is my clear message,
I will go to every corner of Greece to tell the citizens.
And I think I will convince them of that.
Because it is in the national interest to convince them.
Not to vote for a party. That's their choice.
Convince them that we have to take some difficult decisions now.
And to leave our timeless weaknesses behind and move forward. Let's not let them perpetuate, inflate and potentially undermine our children's future.
10. Is there light at the end of the tunnel?
K.K.: The goal is to reverse the trend within two years. Permanently, structurally. And from there on, the country should make use of the potential it has. And it has big ones.
It is inevitable that an atmosphere of difficult decisions will be created. We dare to take difficult decisions that will get the country out of the impasse of the global situation. We dare to take effective measures to enable us to move forward from 2011 to a new perspective.
With solid growth.
With growing jobs.
With a stronger welfare state.
Our country has enormous potential. And if you want me to go one step further, I trust in the virtues, the strengths of the Greek.
My intention is to complete our Plan and lead our country to a better, promising and promising next day. I am determined to fight for these aspirations.
NEW DEMOCRACY
Decision on liability
NEW DEMOCRACY Liability Decision
[[CHAPTER]]: Changing Greece with projects
NEW DEMOCRACY
Decision on liability
Over the last 5.5 years, we have been working systematically to create modern infrastructure that improves the quality of life of citizens and creates new prospects for growth in every region of the country.
From the very first moment we set three main priorities:
The balanced development of the whole of Greece.
For us there is no "other" Greece, "forgotten" Greece.
Most of the work is done in the Region.
Transparency and efficiency in public works.
We proceeded with the complete reform of the system of awarding and producing public works, so that no one can "give" any project to anyone.
Respect for the environment.
In major projects we have chosen environmentally friendly solutions, while in urban centres we have prioritised public transport.
With the largest infrastructure programme in the country's history, the whole of Greece is becoming one big construction site...
Today, more than 300 projects are being constructed throughout Greece, in hundreds of construction sites.
80% of these projects are carried out in the periphery.
We completed the Egnatia Odos
During the last five years, the largest and most difficult part of the project was constructed at a rapid pace, as the Egnatia Road was transformed into one of the largest construction sites in Europe.
Of the 947 km of the main axis and the vertical axes, 509 new kilometres were constructed in record time, i.e. 53.7% of the Egnatia Odos.
More work has been done in 5 years than in the whole of the previous 20 years.
We are building the "Roads to Development"
We prepared, tendered and constructed the "Development Roads":
Ionian Road (Antirio, Agrinio, Arta, Giannina)
Northwestern Peloponnese Road (Corinth, Patras, Pyrgos, Tsakona)
Eastern Peloponnese Road (Corinth, Tripoli, Kalamata, Sparta)
Central Greece Road Axis E65 (Lamia, Karditsa, Trikala, Kalambaka, meeting with Egnatia in Panagia)
Central Road Axis Raches Maliacos - Kleidi Imathias.
The total budget of the projects is over €9.6 billion and the total length of the roads is 1,417 km.
New modern infrastructure is being created for rapid development and to bring large areas of the region out of isolation.
Tripling the Greek motorways
We transformed the trunk of the "deadly horseshoe of Malakos" into a modern and safe motorway of European standards.
The Agrinio bypass is completed and the Arta bypass is under construction.
Major road projects are progressing throughout Greece:
In the sections Athenaeus - Aeftro and Paradisia - Tsakona, on the road axis Tripoli - Kalamata.
On the road axis Schimstari - Chalkida.
On the North Road Axis of Crete.
We are doubling the Athens Metro network
Today, Athens and Thessaloniki are home to the largest front of Metro projects ever undertaken in Greece and executed in Europe.
Already, 22 new stations with 18 km of new underground line are under construction, while three other major extensions are in the pipeline.
In Athens, works are underway for the construction of 10 new stations with network extension to Peristeri, Haidari, Elliniko and Agia Paraskevi (the station "Nomismatokopio" has already been delivered).
In addition, the network extension to Piraeus includes 6 new stations.
Making the Thessaloniki Metro a reality
The most modern Metro in Europe is currently under construction in Thessaloniki.
A project that for so many years the people of Thessaloniki have heard in words but never seen in practice, is now finally becoming a reality.
It is the largest public project currently under construction in Greece, with a budget of €1.1 billion.
In the first phase, it will extend over 9.6 km with 13 stations and will serve 250,000 passengers per day.
We have also prepared the construction of two extensions, to Kalamaria and Stavroupoli.
All of Greece is one big construction site
Dozens of other important projects are being implemented:
in Achaia, Diakoniaris, Glafkos, the dam of Piraeus - Parapeirou.
The Aposelemi dams in Crete, Sykias for the diversion of the Acheloos, Triantafyllia in Florina, Gadouras in Rhodes and others.
In ports all over the country, such as Igoumenitsa, Patras, Lavrio, Mesta Chios, Mykonos, Souda, Kavala, Kos, etc.
At the airports of Thessaloniki, Alexandroupolis, Ioannina, Rhodes, Rhodes, Zakynthos, Corfu, Anchialos, Araxos, Sitia, Karpathos, etc.
The suburban networks of Athens and Thessaloniki are upgraded and extended and the Thrace suburban railway is launched.
...and the big projects continue in the coming years!
We have prepared the next generation of new projects
We are completing the studies, in line with the requirements imposed by our new institutional framework, and have started the tendering process for the timely construction, without overruns and changes, of new public works worth €8 billion.
80% of these projects are in the periphery.
Indicatively listed are:
Central Macedonia: Thessaloniki External Regional Road, Motorway Kleidi - Polykastro - Euzoni etc.
Eastern and Lycian Macedonia: Expansion of Kavala Port, vertical axis of the Egnatia Highway, Siatista - Ieropigi - Krystalopigi, etc.
Central Greece: Improvement of the road axis Lamia - Itea - Antirrio, upgrading of the road axis Agrinio - Karpenisi, etc.
Lytic Greece: Third section of the new Port of Patras, connection of the city of Preveza with the Ionian Road, connection of the city of Lefkada with the road axis of Aktion - Amvrakia, etc.
Epirus: 3rd phase of the new port of Igoumenitsa, upgrading of the road axes Preveza - Filippiada, Igoumenitsa - Preveza, Aktio - Amvrakia, etc.
Thessaly: Connection of Velestinou with PATHE and Volos, upgrading of the National Roads of Larissa - Kozani, Trikala - Arta, Larissa - Farsalon, etc.
Peloponnese: Road Axes Tripoli - Vytina - Ancient Olympia, Filiatra - Pylos - Kalamata, Sparta - Gythio, Nemea - Nafplio etc.
Crete: Upgrading of the northern road axis of Crete (BOAK) and completion of the southern road axis (NOAK)
Ionian Islands: Upgrading of the Airports of Corfu and Kefalonia, etc.
Attica: New Motorways of Attica, Markopoulou bypass and the Stavros - Lavrio side road network, Elefsina - Thebes - Yliki motorway, etc.
Island Regions: new road axis connecting the city of Rhodes with the Airport, road and port projects in the South Aegean islands, etc.
Metro extensions in Athens and Thessaloniki
In Athens, 9 new stations will be delivered in the coming months, completing the extensions to Peristeri, Haidari, Elliniko and Agia Paraskevi.
The extension to Piraeus with 6 new stations and 7.6 km of underground line and the new Line 4 (Also Vecchio University - Kstechaki - Marousi) with 20 new stations and a length of 20.9 km drastically change the transport map of Athens and significantly upgrade life in the basin.
In the first phase of the extensions of the Thessaloniki Metro the construction of two extensions is foreseen: south-east to Kalamaria (5 km with 5 new stations) and north-west to Stavroupoli (5 km with 5 new stations).
The new Heraklion Airport upgrades the whole of Crete
The importance of this new project that we have put out to tender is very great, not only for Crete, as it will lead to the upgrading of its geopolitical position, but also for our national presence in air transport in the Southeastern Mediterranean as a whole.
Its construction will ensure comfortable service to more than 5.5 million passengers a year.
The total cost of the airport and the road axis will amount to €1.2 billion.
During the construction period, approximately 1,000 direct jobs will be created for 5 years, and 2,500 permanent jobs will be created during the operational period.
Today, we are implementing the largest infrastructure programme the country has ever seen, totalling more than €19 billion!
More, that is, than the total number of projects carried out in the previous two decades.
We are committed to the same pace of progress over the next 4 years.
After all, we have completed our strategic planning and we have already prepared the new generation of major projects worth €8 billion.
New projects are changing the lives of Greeks.
With these projects, we are truly modernising the country by creating the necessary infrastructure throughout the country and, at the same time, we are boosting growth in a difficult international economic climate.
Modernising Greece with new infrastructure projects
We are implementing the biggest ever project programme in the country, worth more than €19 billion.
More than the total of the previous twenty years.
We are tripling the number of Greek motorways and radically upgrading our existing National Road Network.
We are more than doubling the Metro and modernising the urban transport network in Athens and Thessaloniki.
We are realizing decades of unfulfilled expectations all over the country: the Egnatia Road is completed, the Thessaloniki Metro has started, the "deadly" Horseshoe of Malakos has become a modern, safe motorway, the Ionian Road, the Central Greece Road Axis, the Northwestern and Eastern Peloponnese Axis and so many other projects are finally becoming reality.
We are modernising the country's ports and airports.
And we are continuing in the coming years, with the next generation of major projects worth €8 billion.
NEW DEMOCRACY
Decision on liability
[[CHAPTER]]: We are facing the international economic crisis with plan and responsibility.
Ensuring a better tomorrow for all
NEW DEMOCRACY
Decision on liability
For several months now, we have been fighting the battle against the worst economic crisis the world has seen in 80 years.
From the very beginning, we have implemented a coherent and responsible plan to strengthen our country's resilience in the face of this unprecedented storm.
We have taken immediate and substantial measures to support the real economy, employment and our economically weaker citizens.
These measures have helped to limit the consequences.
Greece continues to outperform the EU countries.
Growth, unemployment, deficit.
But the difficult things are still ahead of us.
In the coming years we will have to reduce the debt and the deficit.
Make the necessary and nationally beneficial structural changes.
Our goal is for Greece to emerge from the crisis, strong and optimistic.
Faced with these challenges, the Government of the New Democracy has presented a concrete plan that can lead the country to a new era of dynamic growth.
The difficult road of decisions and reforms in the Greek economy is the only way to a tomorrow of hope and perspective.
And the government of New Democracy is the only political force that can responsibly lead the country on this path.
OUR PROJECT
Supporting growth and employment.
We guaranteed the deposits of all Greeks.
We implemented the Plan to boost the liquidity of the economy, with the aim of reducing the cost of money and facilitating the financing of businesses and households by the credit system.
We are implementing a comprehensive €3.2 billion Action Plan to support employment, which will benefit over I million workers and unemployed people.
We are turning unemployment benefit into an employment benefit to place 60,000 subsidised unemployed people in jobs.
We are facilitating through TEMPME the lending of 80,000 SMEs, with a total loan amount of €9.5 billion.
A €1.05 billion programme has been launched through the NSRF 2007-2013 to support SMEs.
For the first time, freelancers (doctors, lawyers, engineers, accountants, etc.) are being supported for the first time with actions worth €250 million for the purchase of equipment.
We have activated the new operational programme "Competitiveness", with actions amounting to €3.2 billion.
We have launched a new programme to facilitate lending to businesses facing problems due to the crisis.
The total amount is €2 billion.
We have moved to decouple the declaration of VAT from its payment, in order to support small and medium-sized enterprises and the thousands of workers they employ.
We supported the market with targeted measures (replacement programme for old air conditioners, car purchase).
We are implementing targeted actions to support the critical sectors of tourism, exports, construction, and the agricultural sector.
Through the Investment Law, we are supporting over 6,000 investments, totalling €12 billion, creating over 28,500 new jobs.
Projects with public-private partnerships are progressing rapidly.
A total of €5.7 billion has been approved, of which €500 million worth of projects are expected to be implemented in 2009.
We have activated the 2007-2013 NSRF, which will invest at least €36 billion of national and Community resources.
In 2009, it is estimated that expenditure will amount to around €3 billion.
We are implementing the largest ever public works programme in the country, worth €19 billion.
And we are moving on to the next generation of major projects worth €8 billion.
Responsible fiscal policy
We have reduced the number of insurance organisations and insurance funds from 133 to 13.
The new funds resulting from the merger already have a 12.5% reduction in operating costs.
We have reduced by 10% the flexible expenditure of all ministries.
This measure will save around €500 million.
We are limiting recruitment in the public sector, with the exception of the health and education sectors.
A 10% cap on spending on project and fixed-term contracts in the public sector, signed in 2009.
We apply strict control on the spending of the OTAs of hospitals and insurance funds.
We are fully implementing the integrated procurement system in the health sector.
This programme is expected to save at least €500 million per year for the next three years.
We gave a viable solution to the problem of Olympiacos, which was costing taxpayers I million euros a day.
We are stepping up efforts to tackle tax evasion.
The tax collection mechanism has been activated and has started to produce positive results.
With the implementation of the Administrative Reform Programme we are reducing the cost of bureaucracy by 25%.
We are changing the philosophy of state procurement by adopting the leasing method in order to save the state significant resources.
We are using the expertise of the market to make more effective progress in the collection of established debts, which currently amount to €20 billion.
Of these, half are considered recoverable.
Our target for 2009 is to collect at least 1.8 billion of this and to continue at an even faster pace in the coming years.
We have taken a series of fair and necessary measures, asking for the contribution of the more affluent citizens in the effort to tackle the crisis and solidarity with the economically weakest.
In replacement of a series of taxes on real estate, we introduced the Single Real Estate Tax (SRT) with a low rate of 1‰.
All small owners were exempted from the RTD, since there is a tax-free limit of 200,000 euros.
Therefore, they do not pay a single euro of tax.
For the first time, businesses, local authorities, the Church and banks are taxed on all their real estate.
Supporting the economically disadvantaged
We have taken protection measures for borrowers in difficulty.
In total, 213,000 civil servants received, as part of the income policy, a one-off one-off payment of €300 and €500, a multiple of inflation.
Emergency financial assistance of €300 to €500 was given to around 1,670,000 pensioners with a basic pension of up to €1,100.
This amount corresponds to an increase by a multiple of inflation.
We are increasing by 60,000 the number of beneficiaries of the ESAS, due to the extension of the income criteria.
We granted an extraordinary social cohesion allowance ("heating allowance") worth 100 to 200 euros to 1,770,000 of our fellow citizens, pensioners, beneficiaries of the ESAS and OGA, unemployed people registered in the OAED and disabled categories.
All unemployed OAED beneficiaries received a double Christmas gift in 2008.
We granted 1,000 euros in emergency aid to unemployed people.
An emergency housing loan allowance for a main house, amounting to €500, was given to 13,500 unemployed OAED and pensioners entitled to the ESAS.
We doubled from 20% to 40% the percentage of interest deductible from taxable income on loans for the construction or purchase of a house until the end of 2010.
We have supported farmers' income, with compensation payments of €500 million.
OUR PROGRAM
Principles and rules everywhere for the rationalisation of the state Strict control and absolute transparency.
Freezing recruitment in 2010, except for those absolutely necessary in the Ministries of Health and Education, and strictly limiting recruitment for a further two years.
Freezing pensions and salaries in the public sector in 2010, but with special care for low-wage earners and low pensioners.
No new allowance for two years, abolition of fictitious overtime, 30% cut in overtime and travel expenses at home and abroad.
Implementation, as of 1/1/2010, of the announcement for the creation of a Single Authority responsible for the payment of salaries of all public servants.
Establishment of a new salary scale for new entrants to the public sector.
Cutting the parliamentary allowance and the salary of members of the Government, Prefects and Mayors for two years.
Establish explicit principles, procedures and rules for the preparation and implementation of the Budget.
Accelerate the implementation of Programme Budgets, for greater transparency in financial management and more accurate presentation of expenditure in each area of action.
Mandatory preparation of detailed annual balance sheets by each public body and organisation.
War against tax evasion
Creation of a Single Database for all tax and insurance obligations of every citizen and business.
Consolidation of collection mechanisms for taxes and social security contributions.
Creation of a database of outstanding total liabilities to the state, where all those with serious tax or insurance arrears will be recorded.
Installation of an online system to connect the cash registers and invoicing mechanisms of all businesses with the Ministry of Economy, in order to put a definitive end to the phenomenon of fake invoices and VAT theft.
Mandatory electronic submission of tax returns by all businesses.
In this way, bureaucracy is significantly reduced and more productive hours are saved for businesses.
Establishment of living presumptions to deal with those who, while living richly, declare defiantly low incomes.
Reforming the system of self-taxation, with the aim of ensuring equality and social justice.
Structural changes for a strong and competitive economy
Opening of a number of closed professions, with the aim of reducing prices for the consumer, enhancing the competitiveness of the Greek economy and increasing employment.
Lifting the "cabotage" to boost cruise tourism, attract new investment and create new jobs.
New rules to further simplify business start-up procedures.
The stages for their start, from 14 to 18, become 4.
Abolish the Book and Data Code and replace it with a simplified modern system of rules.
Strengthening labour market flexibility to support sectors in crisis or areas of high unemployment.
The introduction, for certain categories of unemployed persons, of compulsory participation in a training programme of the OAED as a condition for the payment of unemployment benefits.
Suspension of the payment of unemployment benefit in case two successive job offers are rejected by the OAED.
Reducing the number of heavy and unhealthy occupations for new insured persons, so that they reflect real working conditions.
Stricter application of the criteria for granting disability pensions and comparison of the relevant quantitative data by region.
Electronic cross-checks to drastically reduce tax evasion.
Separation of the Health and Insurance sector in IKA
Installation of an electronic system for the control of prescription and pharmaceutical expenditure.
The new system will mean savings of up to €2 billion per year for the state budget.
Implementation of the new procurement system in the NHS.
Establishment of an Integrated Primary Care System to decongest hospitals and bring health services closer to the citizen.
Drastically downsize public sector agencies to reduce waste, improve service delivery and enhance fiscal transparency.
Strengthening control procedures on the expenditure of the Insurance Funds and the local authorities, in order to ensure transparency and sound financial management.
Continuation of privatisations and strategic alliances, with the aim of strengthening the competitiveness of Greek enterprises in the new international environment.
Radical reform of the administrative structure of the state, with the creation of fewer and stronger municipalities, the stimulation of decentralisation and the establishment of a second-tier regional government.
Investing in digital education to enhance it.
Reform of the Lyceum and introduction of a new system of admission to higher education.
We are facing the international economic crisis with a plan and responsibility.
We are securing a better tomorrow for all.
We guaranteed the deposits of all Greeks.
We are implementing a comprehensive €3.2 billion Action Plan to support employment, which will benefit over I million citizens.
We support 80,000 SMEs with low-interest loans totalling €9.5 billion.
We are implementing €1.3 billion of actions through the FP 2007-2013 to support SMEs and for the first time also freelancers.
We are implementing targeted actions to support the critical sectors of tourism,
of exports,
the agricultural sector,
of the constructions
and the car.
We are implementing tough measures to cut public spending.
We are stepping up efforts to tackle tax evasion.
We have supported, with exceptional support, the income of 213,000 low-paid public sector workers and 1,670,000 low pensioners.
We granted an emergency social cohesion allowance ("heating allowance") to 1,770,000 of our fellow citizens.
We are pushing for decisive changes and introducing strict rules everywhere, to make the state more economical.
We are planning new structural reforms for a strong and competitive economy.
NEW DEMOCRACY
Decision on liability
[[CHAPTER]]: Growth, competitiveness and entrepreneurship for the Greece of tomorrow
NEW DEMOCRACY
Decision on liability
From the first moment we took over the governance of the country, we have sought a new development model.
Our goal is self-sustaining, balanced and sustainable growth that reaches the whole country.
Growth that creates jobs and bears fruit for all citizens.
In this context, our policy is based on four pillars:
Smooth market functioning, with rules that ensure transparency, healthy competition and consumer protection.
Supporting entrepreneurship and competitiveness.
Stimulating market liquidity, with a focus on small and medium-sized enterprises.
Strengthening Greece's international energy position and our energy security, with emphasis on green energy.
Linking research to production and investing in innovation for more competitive products and better services.
TO EPΓO MAΣ
Rules for the smooth functioning of the market
We have upgraded the role and effectiveness of the Competition Commission.
Since 2004, it has imposed fines of €245 million, compared to just €14 million since its creation in 2004.
We banned the collection of overdue debts by so-called collection agencies and put an end to practices that offend the dignity of the citizen.
The irrevocable court judgments concerning the banks' abusive terms and the "late letters" are universally applicable.
We have set up the Market Surveillance Service, which carries out cost controls and has already imposed its first fines.
We named companies that resort to obscene practices.
We have taken measures on the milk market.
We have created the conditions for the absorption of Greek milk and for a significant reduction in milk prices by the industries.
Result: For the first time, since April, the price change index for 160 everyday products, in other words about two thousand codes, shows a decrease.
Supporting entrepreneurship and competitiveness.
Measures to stimulate the market and support SMEs.
We are implementing generic guarantee schemes, through TEMPME Since the
launch of the action in January, almost 50,000 businesses have been financed, with a total loan amount of over €4.6 billion. More than 200,000 jobs have been secured through this programme, as the retention of staff is a condition of inclusion.
We are making full use of the CIP resources. The absorption rate is now 107% for the whole CIP (2000-2006).
In 2004, after four years of implementation of the CIP, the absorption rate was only 14.7%.
Through the Competitiveness Operational Programme (OP), 22,600 investment projects were financed and 4,000 businesses were supported.
Advisory services were also provided to over 90,000 businesses through the Business and Technology Development Centres (BTCs).
We are continuing to implement the NSRF 2007 - 2013 at an even faster pace.To date,
€1.2 billion worth of actions have been activated, of which €930 million is for the support of small and medium-sized enterprises.
705 million of funds have been activated to support small and medium-sized enterprises, in particular in the manufacturing sector.
A further €91 million is expected to be channelled to businesses by the end of the year.
Actions are underway with a total public expenditure of €130 million to help SMEs invest in innovation.
A new €106 million programme to support small and medium-sized enterprises in the trade and services sectors is launched.
We are implementing 2,500 projects and actions under the Digital Agenda.
We are implementing the €450 million Broadband Development Plan.
Greece has achieved one of the highest broadband growth rates in the last three years, while the cost of broadband has fallen by up to 85% since 2004.
We reduced tax rates for businesses from 35% to 25% for companies and from 25% to 30% for EU companies.
We have upgraded the country's business environment:
we have reduced the cost and time for setting up Limited Liability Companies.
We have simplified procedures for the establishment of manufacturing companies and the licensing of health care establishments.
We have solved the chronic problem of the transfer of business licences.
We have modernised the legislation concerning the dynamic bakery sector.
We established the European Company.
We have reformed the framework for the operation of Public Limited Companies (PLCs).
We modernised the Chamber of Commerce legislation and established the General Commercial Register.
We have drawn up a new Bankruptcy Code.
We have given a substantial role to EMMEX, which, in the period 2004-2009, implemented grant programmes amounting to EUR 480 million, compared to only EUR 55 million in the period 2000-2003.
We modernised the law on support for trade and the operation of shops.
Greece on the global energy map
We have signed an intergovernmental agreement with Russia for the construction of part of the South Stream gas pipeline within Greek territory.
The Greek-Russian company that will design, build and manage the pipeline is already being recommended.
Turkey-Greece-Italy Gas Interconnection Pipeline (ITOI):
in November 2008, the section connecting Greece and Turkey was inaugurated and we are moving forward to complete the rest of the pipeline.
We have laid the foundations for the construction of the Greece-Bulgaria gas pipeline, with the possibility of connecting to the gas systems of Romania and Hungary.
We signed an agreement to establish the international company that will build the Burgas-Alexandroupolis oil pipeline.
We speed up the construction processes of the project, ensuring the participation of the local community.
Investing in green energy
We have tripled the installed capacity in Renewable Energy Sources compared to 2004.
We have simplified the procedures for the installation of photovoltaic systems.
We have boosted the development of investment in the geothermal sector.
We have accelerated the "photovoltaic your roofs" programme for electricity production, with even simpler procedures and financial incentives for citizens.
We are implementing, in cooperation with KEDKE, a special energy saving programme ("ExoEconomo") for about 200 municipalities in the country.
The programme will bring a savings rate of up to 30% in buildings and open spaces in urban municipalities.
We subsidized the retirement of old air conditioners.
With this initiative, more than 140,000 old air conditioners were replaced and recycled, tripling the initial targets.
Greece was one of the first countries in the EU to incorporate the EU Directive on Combined Heat and Power (CHP), enabling energy producers to make investments in this area.
Linking research to production.
Investing in innovation for more competitive products and services.
We created the first cluster in Greece.
It is the Corallia initiative, in the field of microelectronics, supported by the ERDF, under the 3rd CSF.
A total of 70 companies, 3 research departments of multinational companies and 36 university laboratories and electronics institutes from all over Greece are participating.
Under the NSRF, we have activated actions that strengthen the link between research and production.
Among others, these include the "Cooperation", "Young Innovative Enterprises", "SME Groups" and "Innovation Vouchers" programmes.
The total public expenditure of the projects announced so far in the field of Research and Development exceeds €200 million.
OUR PROGRAM
Actions for the smooth functioning of the market
We are completing the Electronic Price Observatory.
It is a nationwide network for collecting, processing, analysing and comparing prices of products and services.
Purchase of petroleum products: We install cash registers at petrol stations by 1/1/2010.
We are introducing cost controls, sealing establishments where violations are found and installing fuel vending machines to facilitate consumers.
We are creating, in 2010, a dedicated consumer support office for banking products.
We incorporate the EU Consumer Credit Directive, so that consumers can compare and choose the most advantageous banking service, either in Greece or in another EU member state.
We are further modernising the existing public procurement framework.
We plan to simplify tendering procedures, enhance transparency and the rational management of public money.
Supporting entrepreneurship and competitiveness
We are promoting a new draft law on business parks to boost industrial and entrepreneurial activity.
We further simplify the process of setting up, transferring and winding up a business.
We are reducing the steps required to set up a business from the current 14-18 steps to 4.
We are creating a one-stop-shop in the country's Chambers of Commerce, reducing bureaucracy.
We are upgrading the electronic General Commercial Register.
We introduce a Single Fee for the establishment of a company, which includes all the necessary fees, taxes and contributions.
We are promoting a bill on the country's quarries and mines so that entrepreneurs are clearly aware of the legal framework governing the sector.
We promote the merger of the Hellenic Organization for Standardization (ELOT), the National Accreditation System (NSID) and the Hellenic Institute of Metrology (HIM), in order to create an integrated, unified and reliable accreditation and quality system.
Strengthening Greece's international energy position
We continue and intensify our policy of diversification of energy sources and routes.
We are strengthening the country's energy security and upgrading Greece's position as an international energy hub.
Accelerate work on the completion of the South Stream gas pipeline by 2015.
Schedule the construction of the Greek-Italian section of the ITGI gas pipeline to be operational by 2014.
Move forward with the construction of the Greece-Bulgaria gas pipeline.
We are advancing the construction of the Burgas-Alexandroupolis oil pipeline by 2013.
We are advancing the construction of a second electricity interconnection line between Greece and Bulgaria.
Green energy
We are promoting a new Draft Law on Renewable Energy Sources.
We are further simplifying licensing procedures and providing new incentives for the installation of wind turbines.
Ai Stratis becomes the first pilot Green Island, powered exclusively by RES.
Based on this first example, a study will be carried out for the implementation of similar projects in the future.
We are creating a cluster of companies active in RES.
The aim is to have access to infrastructure, support mechanisms, funding and tools to enhance their growth and competitiveness.
Energy saving
The "Energy Saving at Home" programme, for the energy upgrade of homes.
More than 100,000 households are expected to be supported with €400 million, while tax incentives are also provided for all citizens.
Third Party Financing (TIF), in energy projects.
It provides incentives for citizens and entrepreneurs to install energy efficiency improvement projects through third-party financing.
Creation of a Green Fund to finance actions to promote green energy.
We are developing a new, revised policy for hydrocarbon exploration and extraction.
We are promoting new legislation to enhance transparency and more effective implementation of environmental legislation.
We are using NSRF resources to roll out the gas network in the country.
In 2009, 850,000 households are expected to be connected to the network, which is expected to reach I million by the end of 2010.
We aim for a liberalised and competitive gas market, with modern and high quality services.
We are moving forward with plans to find a strategic investor in DEPA.
We seek to modernise PPC and promote cooperation with private investors in order to become a strong energy player in the wider Balkan region.
Research, innovation, quality enhancement
We are increasing spending on Research and Development.
For the 2007-2013 programming period, expenditure is almost three times higher than for the 2000-2006 period.
We are reforming our national research system.
The aim is to achieve better results for citizens and society.
We are launching new actions under the NSRF to link research to production.
We are strengthening the existing Regional Innovation Hubs and plan to create 4 new ones in the country's regions.
We are moving forward with the creation of the Innovation Zone in Thessaloniki, which will be a powerful pole of innovation and regional development.
Growth, Competitiveness and Entrepreneurship for the Greece of tomorrow
We have upgraded the Competition Commission and strengthened its work against cartels and practices that distort competition.
We named companies that resort to obscene practices.
We have so far supported 50,000 SMEs with low-interest loans of €4.6 billion through TEMPME.
We have thus secured more than 200,000 jobs.
We have made full use of the resources of the 3rd CSF and we are continuing with the implementation of the NSRF 2007-2013.
We reduced the tax rates for corporations from 35% to 25% for LLCs and from 25% to 30% for E.U.s.
We are putting Greece on the global energy map, with major international energy projects and agreements.
We tripled the installed capacity of Renewable Energy Sources compared to 2004.
With the withdrawal of old air conditioners, over 140,000 old air conditioners were replaced and recycled.
We are implementing €200 million of actions to link research to production and boost innovation.
We further simplify the process of setting up, transferring and winding up a business.
We are promoting a new Draft Law on Renewable Energy Sources.
We are promoting a programme for the energy upgrade of homes, which will support over 100,000 households.
We are increasing spending on Research and Development.
NEW DEMOCRACY
Decision on liability
