STRONG GROWTH SELF-RELIANT GREECE
Our plan
UNITED WE CANOur plan1 | Strong Growth with Investments2 | Many, new, better jobs3 | Less Taxes - More Income4 | New Social Contract for Workers, State, Businesses5 | Value in Real Estate6 | Supporting the Family, Addressing Demographics7 | Solidarity to those in need8 | Quality Public Health9 | Security for All10 Border Security, 11 | Modern public services and science12 Environmental protection and sustainable development13 Effective and citizen-friendly state14 Revitalization of agriculture and livestock15 Completion of our national infrastructure16 Greece regains a voice in Europe and the world
DEVELOPMENT
Our plan
FOR STRONG GROWTH THROUGH INVESTMENT
Strong growth is the only solution.
So we are ending over-taxation and introducing incentives for new investment, targeting hundreds of thousands of new and well-paid jobs in the private sector.
For young people, the partially employed, the long-term unemployed, but also for every worker looking for a better job.
To this end:We are reducing the corporate tax rate from 28% to 20% within two years and the dividend tax from 10% to 5%.
We are introducing special incentives to attract investment, with a doubling of the time for loss relief and the possibility of a 200% write-off for new investments.
We are improving the business environment by radically simplifying and introducing explicit deadlines in licensing procedures, by introducing electronic signatures for citizens and businesses, and by fast-tracking investment appeals to special court chambers.
We are restoring liquidity, through the reduction of the Greek state's borrowing rates (already starting to fall after the European elections), which leads to the reduction of interest rates for Greek businesses,
by addressing the problem of "red loans",
the repayment of public debts to individuals
and the full utilization of the Public Investment Programme.
We are reforming the state so that it is strong, but with an executive and regulatory role
and to resist the ideologies and the guilds, which sometimes discover forests at airports and sometimes see it as a party spoils system.
NEW JOBS
Our plan
HOW TO CREATE MANY NEW, WELL-PAYING JOBS
With investments and the strong growth they generate.
Private investment, through a clear licensing and land-use plan, a
friendlier business environment,
lower and fairer taxation,
increased public investment, the
use of Community funds and public-private partnerships.
In which sectors will they take place?
In tourism and shipping EUR 20-25 billion.
In tourism alone, large investments of €11 billion are currently stuck.
In the primary sector and food processing €15-20 billion.
In energy (RES, new gas pipelines, etc.) and the environment €9 billion.
In Research and Technological Development, industry, logistics and through Public-Private Partnerships, €10 billion.
In the construction and infrastructure sectors where the margins are even greater.
Two indicative examples:First, in infrastructure, our plan foresees 43,000 jobs for large or small projects.
Second, in the housing market, which supports hundreds of professions.
With our comprehensive plan (reduction of ENFIA, tax rebate for energy, functional and aesthetic upgrading of buildings, support for golden visa and nom/dom programs, VAT and capital gains tax suspension for 3 years) we estimate that 37,000 jobs can be created.
The minimum wage, with the growth clause we foresee, will reach 730 euros in three years.
TAXATION
Our plan
FOR FEWER LOADS AND MORE INCOME
A growing economy is an economy that provides more disposable income for all.
With fairer taxation that unleashes productivity and creativity, so that every Greek can ensure the highest possible quality of life for himself and his family.
To this end:We maintain the tax-free rate and reduce the introductory tax rate for individuals (employees, freelancers and farmers) from 22% to 9% for incomes up to €10,000
and establish a new tax scale with a lower top tax rate.
We are phasing out the business tax and the special solidarity contribution.
We establish an increase in the minimum wage at twice the rate of GDP growth.
We estimate that the minimum wage will thus reach €730 by 2022.
We are gradually reducing contributions to the main pension from 20% to 15% over the next four years.
We are reducing VAT by introducing two basic rates of 11% and 22%, from 13% and 24% today, while maintaining the over-reduced VAT rate at 6%.
WORK
Our plan
ON LABOUR AND THE PROTECTION OF LABOUR RIGHTS
To turn the country around, with strong growth and social cohesion, a new social contract between workers, state and business is needed.
The state offers a good business environment and low taxes and companies are punctual in all their obligations, pay their employees well and make them stakeholders in the profits and growth of the business and take care of the environment.
To this end:We incentivise the private sector by reducing taxes and simplifying bureaucratic procedures.
We guarantee strict compliance with labour law by using e-government and carrying out targeted and more effective checks.
We establish a white register of companies and lower contributions for companies that are socially compliant and respect labour legislation.
We provide incentives for companies to give their employees additional benefits such as free transport to work, extra insurance benefits, profit-sharing and special share schemes.
IMMOVABLE PROPERTY
Our plan
TO RESTORE THE VALUE OF GREEK PROPERTY
For decades, the house was for the Greeks the goal of life, a basic way of saving and the legacy they left to their children.
And its construction was a key driver of the economy, feeding hundreds of professions.
Our goal is to give value back to the real estate of Greeks and life to a crucial sector for the development of the country with less taxes and substantial incentives.
To this end:We reduce the ENFIA by 30% within two years for all owners.
We establish a 40-50% discount for all energy, functional and aesthetic upgrading, maintenance and utilization of buildings.
People will spend the money,
keep the invoices and have the tax credit that they can use to cover any tax liability over the next three years.
We are drastically simplifying property transfer procedures by reducing the 23 documents by a third initially and gradually ensuring that they will all be available electronically.
We suspend for three years the capital gains tax on the sale and purchase of real estate and VAT on construction activity.
DIGITAL
Our plan
FOR YOUNG FAMILIES AND WORKING PARENTS
Young families and working parents have had a difficult time in recent years.
Some young people have left and are raising their families abroad.
At the same time, births are falling.
Demography is becoming a major threat to the economy, to society, to our very national existence.
Supporting young families and working parents is an absolute priority for us.
To this end:We are establishing an allowance of €2,000 for each child born.
We increase the tax-free threshold by €1,000 for each child.
We restore the benefits for families with three children and large families to the level before the reductions of 2018 (Law 4512/2018).
We pledge that no child will be left out of daycare.
We extend the opening hours of kindergartens and strengthen all-day schools, which operate until 18:00 with a substantial programme of activities and studies, so that children's schedules are better aligned with the needs of working parents.
SOCIAL COHESION
Our plan
FOR SOLIDARITY TO THOSE IN NEED
We stand by those who need it most,
because there is no development without social cohesion and social cohesion without social solidarity; To
this end:We are increasing the budget for the Minimum Guaranteed Income to 1 billion euros, so that it is granted directly to 800 thousand of our fellow citizens who really need it.
We are increasing the budget for unemployment benefits by €200 million and redefining the award criteria so that many more people receive them.
We are promoting a digital skills programme for 50,000 long-term unemployed.
We are promoting equal opportunities policies for people with disabilities, with measures such as the introduction of the speciality of personal assistant and the strengthening of "independent living".
We establish curricula for special education school structures adapted to the type of disability and the special educational needs it entails.
We use, in cooperation with the local government, available properties that are not being used to be given to mitigate the problem of homelessness.
HEALTH
Our plan
FOR QUALITY PUBLIC HEALTH FOR ALL GREEKS
Quality public health requires organised prevention, efficient management of public structures, additional staff where needed, full use of information technology and modern medical technology and good citizen service with priority given to the most vulnerable groups.
To this end:We are establishing a new programme of free screenings for all, covered by EOPYY.
Citizens are informed (by SMS or email) about the necessary preventive examinations according to their age group and are automatically referred to state or private facilities.
We start by screening for breast, cervical and colon cancer.
We extend the duration of repeat prescriptions for chronically ill patients and establish 24-hour appointments with EOPYY doctors for sensitive groups (disabled people, people over 65, etc.) and home distribution of medicines to specific groups of patients (disabled people, cancer patients, etc.).
We give you the opportunity to freely choose your family doctor.
We are strengthening hospitals, with 1,500 nursing trainees per year, introducing the acquisition of a specialty immediately after graduation,
recruiting 2,000 nurses in hospitals in large urban centres and filling all organic positions over four years.
We introduce vocational orientation in public hospitals.
We use modern medical technology everywhere, electronic health records, with the use of telemedicine, and the corresponding information systems, a 24-hour telephone line for medical support and guidance from specialists, etc.
We implement the anti-smoking law immediately and fully.
SAFETY
Our plan
FOR ALL GREEKS TO FEEL SAFE IN OUR HOMES AND NEIGHBOURHOODS
We are making neighborhoods safe again, and putting an end to "homelessness".
So that citizens feel confident and safe in their homes, at work, in their daily commutes and activities.
For this purpose:
We are re-establishing the DELTA team as soon as possible and reinforcing the DIS team by recruiting 1,500 new police officers.
We are stepping up patrols in neighbourhoods, with uniformed policing, on foot and on patrol around the clock.
We are providing police officers with new equipment.
Within six months all police officers will receive new bulletproof vests and we are moving within a year to supply 1,000 new patrol cars.
We immediately repeal the Paraskevopoulos law, in order to stop the mass release of people convicted of serious criminal offences.
We are reintroducing maximum security prisons (type C) to stop all kinds of gangs from operating inside the prisons.
We are strictly enforcing the law on damage to public property to stop vandalism of the metro, buses and public buildings.
We immediately abolish the university asylum, so that public universities can be transformed from places of lawlessness back into cells of knowledge and research.
BORDER GUARDING
Our plan
ON THE MANAGEMENT OF OUR BORDERS AND THE MANAGEMENT OF MIGRATION
We are radically revising our migration policy, with priorities for effective border management, fast-track asylum procedures and the immediate return to the countries of origin of those who are not entitled to asylum,
while those who remain in our country will live in conditions of humanity and dignity.
To this end:We use modern technical means to guard the borders and intensify patrols - land and sea - in cooperation with the European Union.
We establish closed temporary first reception and accommodation centres, where the examination of asylum applications is completed within a maximum of six weeks, both at first and second instance, with exclusive territorial competence.
We impose transparency in the management of national and European money allocated to migration.
Local communities are actively involved in the control of funding.
We are intensifying the control of legal documents throughout the country.
We ensure humane living conditions in all reception centres with special care for families with children and other vulnerable groups.
We are creating special reception classes in schools for the smooth integration into the educational system of children who remain in our country as recognized refugees and until their return is possible.
We are seeking to secure the corresponding funds from the European Union immediately.
EDUCATION
Our plan
FOR PRIMARY SCHOOLS AND UNIVERSITIES THAT PREPARE OUR CHILDREN FOR TOMORROW'S WORLD
We invest in modern, upgraded public education.
We free the school from the suffocating embrace of the Ministry so that the teacher can have more freedom.
We are introducing a modern operating framework for Higher Education Institutions to make Greece an international educational centre
and at the same time create many jobs in cutting-edge sectors around education.
To this end:We are preparing new curricula that give teachers much more freedom to enrich and adapt teaching to the needs of students.
We are creating a public Model School in each regional unit, where all students can access through exams.
We establish school-based vocational guidance from secondary school.
We are creating Model Vocational High Schools in representative regions of the country, working with the local economy and entrepreneurship.
We are introducing a new framework for the operation of higher education institutions that provides for effective administrative institutions, curricula without the suffocating control of the Ministry of Education and evaluation at all levels.
We seek to attract new resources for Higher Education Institutions, beyond state funding and greater interconnection with the labour market.
Lifelong Learning Centres (former liberal studies workshops and former KEKs) are assessed on the basis of graduates who are certified and absorbed into the labour market.
A FRIENDLY STATE
Our plan
FOR A MODERN, EFFICIENT AND CITIZEN-FRIENDLY STATE
We are committed to a modern and efficient state that looks after taxpayers' money and provides much better services.
A state based on e-government, evaluation and meritocracy. That sets targets and measures results.
A state that is above all friendly to the citizen, whom it serves and serves.
To this end:We are redesigning procedures so that citizens can carry out many of their transactions electronically, anytime from home.
We are creating a central hub (portal) where everything that those who deal with the public sector, ordinary citizens, employees, businessmen, foreign investors and visitors to the country will be gathered.
We trust civil servants by transferring responsibilities to civil servants, by reducing political positions (secretaries etc.) by at least 20%, and a new framework for the selection of heads of the public administration, with an emphasis on accountability and modern management by competent civil servants.
We establish objective and meaningful evaluation for all to reward the best and help everyone to improve their performance.
No civil servant will be dismissed.
We transfer state responsibilities to Local Authorities that are closer to the citizens and their needs and at the same time we ensure the necessary resources for local authorities by strengthening fiscal decentralisation and their effective financial autonomy (transfer of ENFIA).
We are expanding the cooperation between the state and the private sector, by outsourcing activities where the private sector can deliver them more efficiently and at lower cost, and by more Public-Private Partnerships (PPPs).
ENVIRONMENT
Our plan
ON THE PROTECTION OF THE ENVIRONMENT AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT
The natural wealth of our country is our great competitive advantage.
The only smart development policy for Greece is one that respects the environment and quality of life.
It is our obligation to future generations, but it is also a unique opportunity to make our lives better.
To this end:We are adopting a new energy policy to reduce emissions (80% reduction of carbon dioxide by 2050), shift to renewable energy sources and phase out lignite.
We are implementing a new waste policy by promoting recycling at source, reusing materials, reducing single-use plastics and processing waste residues for energy production.
Utilising public-private partnerships for fast and cost-effective results.
We promote a modern, intelligent and environmentally and citizen-friendly spatial policy that puts a definitive end to anarchic building.
We are completing the spatial and urban planning.
We link land use to tax activity codes (IDCs) and classify industrial activities based only on their environmental impact.
We prepare organised plans for the prevention and response to fires in forests, but also for their active, productive management and we combine forest protection with the economic sustainability of mountain areas.
We are reorganising civil protection, with more flexible structures, better coordination, early planning and immediate activation of the Early Warning System.
AGRICULTURE & LIVESTOCK
Our plan
FOR THE REGENERATION OF AGRICULTURE AND LIVESTOCK FARMING
Our farmers and livestock farmers are struggling to keep the agri-food sector alive in the face of enormous difficulties.
High taxes, lack of funding, excessive production costs and lack of access to international markets.
We support them by encouraging the creation of new clusters and with additional help from the state
for higher productivity and to fight unfair competition from illegal imports.
To this end:We introduce a new law on cooperatives and reduce the tax rate to 10% for producer groups and cooperatives.
We ensure stable resources from the new CAP for all.
We are designing special programmes to support farmers and livestock farmers who use new technology and actively participate in training programmes to make their farms outward-looking and competitive.
We are stepping up controls and tackling illegal imports of products.
We ensure that inactive resources - facilities, infrastructure and land - that are currently stagnating in the hands of the state and other bodies (e.g. EL.G.O.-Dimitra, liquidator of the Agricultural Bank) are put back into production as soon as possible.
We give an executive role to the Ministry of Rural Development, and we put the veterinary and agricultural services at the service of farmers and livestock farmers, with substantial support for them and not just recording and measuring subsidies.
We provide additional incentives for the creation of new clusters.
INFRASTRUCTURE
Our plan
FOR THE COMPLETION OF OUR NATIONAL INFRASTRUCTURE
We are implementing a single national infrastructure development plan to improve everyday life and
create many quality jobs.
The plan invests 12 billion in national projects, with the aim of creating at least 43,000 jobs
and an additional 1.4% GDP growth per year.
To this end:We are completing the main road network on the mainland - E65, Patras Pyrgos - as well as the Northern Road Axis of Crete, leaving no city in Greece unconnected to the major motorways.
We are proceeding with the immediate implementation of the planned Metro projects in Athens (completion of Line 4 and its connection with Lines 1 & 3) and Thessaloniki.
We are creating an alternative motorway that directly connects Elefsina with Yliki, upgrading West Attica by decongesting traffic on the Kifissos and seriously reducing air pollution.
We are investing in fast rail, with the completion of electrification, telecommand and signalling systems on the main railway line (Patras, Athens, Thessaloniki, Evzoni-Promahonas) and the new lowland Thessaloniki-Kavala line.
We are completing critical energy infrastructure, reducing energy costs for all.
We introduce innovative methods of maturing and financing projects (innovation proposals), which allow for faster and more cost-effective implementation.
INTERNATIONAL ALLIANCES
Our plan
FOR GREECE TO REGAIN ITS VOICE AND CREDIBILITY IN EUROPE AND THE WORLD
Greece's orientation towards the hard core of developed countries and our active and reliable participation in the most powerful international alliances is our firm and non-negotiable objective.
The same applies to the use of our authorities abroad to promote public and economic diplomacy, improving the country's international image (nation branding)
and promoting its economic extroversion.
To this end:We are restoring the country's economic credibility, with strong growth that makes our debt sustainable and Greece self-reliant.
We are setting up a National Security Council for foreign policy, defence and crisis management, along the lines of other countries such as France and Israel.
This body, which operates under the Prime Minister, identifies risks to national and regional security, recommends policies and supports the Government in crisis management.
We are creating a single body for economic and trade diplomacy and outward-looking policy more broadly.
This body results from the consolidation of individual public structures, has administrative autonomy and cooperates with the private sector to promote the extroversion of the Greek economy.
We are implementing coherent international communication campaigns with immediate priority to the campaign for the real, true Macedonia, with the aim to restore the reality and promote the "brand Macedonia" and Macedonian products.
The coming elections are crucial and the dilemma is simple: will a new, brighter era begin or will we get back into adventures?
The answer is up to you.
By your choices, but above all by your participation. On July 7, don't let others decide for you.
Kyriakos MitsotakisNOMEN CAN#metonkyriako
