1. Get rid of the debt burden
2. Tax wealth
and eliminate unnecessary spending
3. A protective shield to get society out of the crisis
4. Sustainable growth through productive, social and environmental reconstruction
5. Stable employment with decent wages and full insurance
6. Radical reform of the state.
Democracy everywhere.
Equal rights for all
7. A strong welfare state.
No one is alone in the difficult turns of life.
8. Health cannot be a commodity. It is a social good and a right for all
9. Protect Education and culture from the policy of the Memoranda.
10. Independent and peaceful foreign policy
INTRODUCTION
And the second Memorandum government has come to an end.
As much as they wanted to avoid elections, popular outcry forced them.
On 6 May we have the opportunity to say a resounding "No!", to repeat with our vote the cry "Leave!" heard in the squares of the cities of Greece.
The partners of the two-party system and their peers in the leadership of the European Union and the International Monetary Fund are trying to terrorize and blackmail the Greek people in view of the elections.
They're doing the same thing everywhere, all over Europe.
We are told that the dilemma is a Memorandum or exit from the Euro and the European Union.
The dilemma is false.
They themselves have admitted that their own costs will then be much higher.
What they want to impose in Greece and in Europe is a regime of limited popular sovereignty, with parliaments as docile instruments of ratification of decisions taken elsewhere, with parties accepting from the outset to implement the decisions of others.
We are not a docile political force.
We have no dependencies, we do not obey the financially powerful and political terrorists, foreign or local.
That is why we do not accept blackmail, we do not accept the reduction of popular sovereignty.
All of us who formed the SYRIZA Unitary Social Front want to overturn the morbid political situation imposed by the partners of the two-party system and their satellites.
It wants to overturn the regime that has been imposed on us through mobilisations and the vote of the people.
The two partners of the two-party system, PASOK and ND, are trying to intimidate us: "Memorandum or disaster!", they tell us.
But three years of Memoranda have taught us: this policy leads directly to poverty and destruction.
Greece under the Memoranda will be in a decade a country with great poverty, miserable education for the many and expensive schools for the few, a destroyed productive fabric and devalued knowledge and skills of its workforce, degraded health services for the people of the people and luxurious private clinics for the few, with the natural and urban environment at the disposal of every aeronautical investor.
Citizens feel humiliated to see the country under surveillance and popular sovereignty abolished.
For many, even basic survival is now an issue, and that is the prospect for the vast majority.
This is what fuels and fuels the anger and the longing to punish those responsible.
But punishment is not enough.
We need a solution and a way out.
The way out is left!
SYRIZA-United Social Front has made commitments in Parliament, in the trade unions, in the workplaces and education, in local government and in popular mobilisations [commitments].
These are the commitments we are ratifying ahead of the upcoming crucial elections:
We commit ourselves - with the daily support and mobilization of the people//|-
to cancel the Memoranda, the Loan Agreements, the guardianship regime of the European Union and the International Monetary Fund
and to stop the destructive course that is destroying society and plundering the country.
We are committed to embark on a new painful but necessary course of recovery and reconstruction of Greek society and economy
based on social and environmental criteria and guided by the needs of the many instead of the interests of the few.
We are committed to promoting, as a matter of absolute priority, measures to relieve the vulnerable, the unemployed, the low-paid, the homeless, measures to defend public goods, so that our people can emerge from the crisis on their feet.
We are committed to stopping the undemocratic slide
and to giving a voice to those who do not have one today.
We are told that there are no resources.
They're lying!
Resources can be released by:Suspending debt servicing, negotiating the cancellation of a large part of the debt and servicing the rest with a growth and employment clause.
Adequate taxation of wealth, large estates and incomes
.Reduction of armaments
.Fighting corruption.
These are necessary conditions for the reconstruction of the country, in order to produce new wealth.
The two partners of the two-party system are struggling to obtain, both together or with their satellite groups, a majority in the next Parliament, in order to implement what they have agreed with the Troika.
They need to fail.
"But then there will be chaos and ungovernability!", they say.
This is not true.
With any result there will be a government.
The question is whether the perpetrators of the crisis, New Democracy and PASOK and their satellites, will govern to continue what they have done so far.
We say no! Enough is enough!
All of us together, with our mobilisations, we have already brought down the first government of the Memorandum.
With our vote we can provide a solution.
To block the majority of the Memorandum parties and their satellite parties, to
marginalize the murderous neo-Nazi far-right
and to create a new social and political majority.
These commitments, this immediate programme, this funding, can only be imposed in full if the parties of the Memorandum are defeated.
and their satellites and if there is a new majority that will bring about a government with the Left as its core and leading force.
That is why SYRIZA-United Social Front has insisted and will insist on claiming the coalition of the Left.
This total policy change also needs support outside the borders.
That is why we insist on seeking coordination and cooperation with the mass movements and the Left throughout Europe.
This economic and social system has failed and must be overthrown!
All the promises of the PASOK and ND governments for prosperity, full employment, a welfare state, education and high quality health care have been broken.
The promises made by their counterparts in other European countries were equally betrayed.
All the measures taken in recent years have always been to the detriment of labour and for the benefit of capital.
More work for less money, less pension and less social benefits, but more profits for business and less taxes for the rich, that was, crisis or no crisis, the direction of politics, whoever was in power.
The economic crisis that is now overwhelming capitalism all over the world was the culmination of shattering illusions.
And this crisis is being used for new measures against labour, for the demolition of every social welfare institution, for the transfer of the tax burden even more on the shoulders of the poorest, for the handing over of the environment to fast-track investments.
So that the exploitation of labour and nature by capital is even more efficient.
More and more people are seeing that private capitalist initiative and speculation is an inhuman and inefficient principle of running society.
They see that the operation of private banks only benefits the bankers and harms society.
Even the big industrialists and big bankers themselves are calling for state intervention in the economy with injections of billions missing from health, education and pensions.
They are of course asking the state to intervene to clean up their businesses and make them robust again,
so that they can profit before they create new crises.
The exit from the crisis, in order not to leave behind ruins, needs bold steps and measures that will prevent the perpetrators of the crisis and destruction from carrying out their harmful activities.
We seek to make the production and distribution of wealth a matter for the whole of society, to
make large capitalist property public
and to run the economy democratically.
Socialism with the full flowering of democracy and freedom is our goal.
We are not alone in Europe
We are proud to belong to the large political family of parties and organisations of the Left in Europe.
The Left is the political force that first, and for a long time alone, stood in solidarity with the Greek and other peoples of our continent who are being tested.
Today, in all the countries of Europe affected by the crisis and the common policy of the Grand Alliance of Conservatives and liberal Social Democrats who together managed the construction of the European Union, the people are resisting.
Radical leftists, left socialists, left socialists, communists, left ecologists, trade unions and social movements are building fronts to overturn this policy.
Academic institutions, social organisations, intellectuals all over the world warn that the policy being implemented is leading the economies of the countries of Europe into a deeper crisis, democracy into contraction, the environment into destruction, the European Union into disintegration and, above all, the popular classes into poverty and misery.
Under this pressure, even within the social democratic parties, which supported this policy, there are voices today talking about "regulation", "state intervention", "measures" to curb the rampant speculation.
The realisation that the European Union under the leadership of the Grand Alliance of Conservatives and Social Democrats is increasingly becoming an undemocratic mechanism of capital domination is gaining the minds of millions of European citizens.
Today it is now certain: the union of the states of Europe cannot continue on this path.
The unification of Europe needs a new start with social sensitivity, ecological care, peaceful foreign policy and democracy.
And this is something that the political forces that are in power today cannot and will not do.
Today the whole eurozone is being shaken.
The new agreements are leading the EU in an increasingly authoritarian direction, and it is becoming clear that this neoliberal structure, function and policy of the EU must be reversed.
Already in major countries such as France, the new pact for the euro is being challenged, in Germany itself the government is struggling to get it through parliament, while in Ireland the people will be asked to decide in a referendum.
This must be done in Greece as well.
Our success in Greece, therefore, will not mean isolation, as the partners of the two-party system and the representatives of the Troika tell us in order to scare us,
but it will become a trigger for developments and changes, it will give courage and strength to the other peoples of Europe
and we will find supporters and allies.
Our aim is to break with the neoliberal policy that dominates the EU
and to build a pan-European front to fight for a different Europe, a Europe of peace, labour, social rights and ecology, gender equality, democracy and solidarity, a socialist Europe.
10 points for exiting the crisis
1. Getting rid of the debt burden
We are told that the public debt does not allow the state to pursue a social and development policy.
This is not true.
It is only true because the government of the bipartisan partners puts paying the lenders above the needs of the people.
This must and can change.
The public debt of the country is a class debt.
It's the taxes that the rich didn't pay.
With permanent exemptions and reliefs for high incomes and capital gains, tolerance of tax evasion and tax theft, kickbacks from the corrupt, overruns in public works and looting of public funds, excessive military spending and pharaonic events like the Olympics, huge fortunes were created, public enterprises were bought up and a public debt was accumulated that cannot be serviced.
Debt is not a Greek peculiarity.
It is an element of the capitalist crisis on a pan-European
and global scale and a result of the neoliberal policies of the last twenty years.
It is an expression of inequality in relations between the countries of the European Union.
Together with the forces of the European Left, the trade unions and the solidarity and demand movements, we can fight for a just pan-European solution.
We are calling for a pan-European conference to tackle the debt of European states.
We demand a different role for the European Central Bank, which should finance, either directly or through a European public bank, the budgets of the states and European public investment programmes.
We demand a Europe-wide ban on bank speculative derivatives.
We demand Europe-wide taxation of corporations, financial transactions, high incomes and large estates.
The public debt today is the lever for the imposition of all the measures that are strangling us.
These same measures do not reduce but inflate the debt.
In ten years it will be at least as much as it was at the beginning of the Memorandum.
The cancellation of part of the agreed debt is accompanied by such measures that instead of benefit there is damage.
Tens of billions will be given to the banks, insurance funds will lose their reserves, higher education institutions and hospitals will lose their property.
This agreement divests any remaining public property and gives the creditors control of the state's revenues.
Their service always comes first.
The economic and political forces in Greece and the Eurozone that, rhetorically, set as a priority the treatment of public debt, in reality seek only the dramatic reduction of incomes (wages, pensions, etc.) and the demolition of labour achievements and social rights.
The sacrifices they are asking for on the debt issue are neither about saving the country nor about debt sustainability.
The "bailout" programmes are lead life-savers designed to increase the profitability of capital and its power over labour and to perpetually reproduce the dependence of states on the international banking system.
This vicious circle must be broken.
The solution is one: selective cancellation of most of the debt, whether it is held by financial institutions or states,
suspension of the servicing of the rest until there is an economic recovery,
and servicing it on more favourable terms and with a growth and employment clause.
In order to achieve this result, every means, including stopping payment, needs to be used.
2. Tax wealth and abolish unnecessary spending
We are told that there are no resources for a policy shift like the one we need.
This is not true.
In Greece, all of us who work produce over 200 billion euros every year.
These are ransacked by a few.
Resources can be found by radically reforming the tax system, by
imposing as much as necessary on high incomes and accumulated wealth
, and by reducing expenditure that does not serve the people's interest.
Change the tax scale with a significant increase in rates for high incomes up to 75% for incomes above 500000 euros per year.
The tax rate for large companies should be raised to at least the level of the euro area average.
Introduce a financial transaction tax and impose a special tax on luxury and conspicuous consumption.
Abolish the special tax immunity regime for the financially powerful, such as shipowners and the Church.
Record accumulated wealth, whether in Greece or abroad, in an inventory of assets, and ensure adequate taxation of large estates above 1 million euros.
Lift banking and commercial secrecy to ensure transparency in transactions and fight tax and contribution evasion.
Prohibit any kind of transaction through offshore companies.
Reform and modernise the state's tax and audit services.
Additional resources can be found by making effective use of every Community euro, not only in terms of absorption rate but also in terms of multiplier benefits.
By claiming the German occupation loan, reparations and compensation for the victims of the occupation.
By reviewing all military spending
and abolishing all spending that is not necessary for the defence of the country, starting with NATO spending.
We are told that tax evasion and tax avoidance cannot be tackled and large estates cannot be registered.
This is not true.
These are things that the parties of the interconnectedness and clientelism do not want and cannot do.
Their political existence is based on the favour and funding of the financially powerful.
Even today, in the heart of the crisis, while they are cutting electricity to poor households, they are encouraging the concealment of income, the evasion of VAT and social security contributions and not collecting taxes of past years, while they do not hesitate to reduce even further (from 24% to 20%) the tax rate for the profits of large companies.
What is needed is the will of political forces that do not serve big economic interests and are not financially dependent on them.
An inventory of assets can be established immediately with the mandatory listing in tax returns of all assets, whether in Greece or abroad,
and the confiscation of those not declared.
Tax and contribution evasion can be caught by using new technologies and the accumulated knowledge of tax and social security workers.
By these means, tens of billions can flow into public coffers every year.
Resources that can be used to relieve the people who are currently being crushed,
to produce new wealth and to fundamentally reform Greece.
3. A protective shield to get society out of the crisis
We are already in a humanitarian crisis.
The unemployed and underemployed, micro-pensioners, over-indebted households, low-wage earners, homeless people urgently need measures to survive.
A programme of immediate implementation is necessary for reasons of basic social solidarity.
The entire state apparatus must be mobilised immediately to deal with the danger of mass impoverishment.
The minimum wage should be immediately restored to the level provided for in the National General Collective Agreement.
Buildings owned by the State, the Banks and the Church should be utilized, to be properly remodeled to house the homeless.
A morning and midday feeding programme for children in public schools should be implemented immediately.
All health services to provide medical, dental and eye care to the unemployed, homeless and low pensioners, without any charge or participation of the patient.
To regulate the loans of over-indebted households with a grace period, an extension of the repayment period and a reduction of the interest rate.
The instalment should not exceed 30% of income.
Cancellation of part or all of the debt if the debtor is below the level of decent living.
Increase and extend unemployment benefits to all insured persons and grant them for the entire period of unemployment.
Provide special assistance for those who are not registered in the unemployment insurance scheme.
Take immediate steps to reduce the prices of basic goods with a corresponding reduction or, where necessary, even zero VAT.
There should be special utility tariffs for vulnerable categories of citizens.
The small property tax should be abolished immediately.
There should be a plan to gradually restore the purchasing power of wages and pensions.
4. Sustainable development with productive, social and environmental reconstruction
The last two decades have been critical for the economic situation in Greece, as in all the countries of the European Union.
The single market and the single currency abolished any possibility of protecting domestic production, either through tariffs or monetary policy, and imposed the fiercest competition.
Everywhere there have been privatisations, flexible labour relations, wage and pension cuts.
Especially in the weaker countries, like Greece, de-industrialisation and the destruction of entire industries was rapid.
In our country, the policy of the Memoranda gave the coup de grace, leading to a permanent and deep recession, unemployment and reduction of incomes.
Not only is the situation not reversing under the memoranda and the agreements signed, but it will deteriorate rapidly.
Development within the framework proposed by the two-party system is based on the absolute freedom of capital, on the selling off of public wealth, on the even greater exploitation of labour, on the cancellation of any social clause, on the surrender of the environment to the profitability of capital.
With these measures, we are told, "the Greek economy will become competitive" and "foreign investment will come in".
But Greece has always had very low labour costs and a deficit in its foreign trade,
labour and the environment had little protection compared to other European countries
and foreign investment did not come.
Therefore, the degradation of work and the destruction of the environment is not the solution.
The solution lies in choosing a radically different path so that within a decade Greece can be transformed.
For this to happen, we need a radical reversal of the political balance
and a new majority based on the forces of labour, youth and culture, the creative forces of our society.
An important tool for the new path is a reformed financial system with publicly owned banks.
If the great crisis that broke out in 2008 proved anything, it is that private for-profit banks are harmful to the vast majority of people.
The partners of the two-party system in Greece spoke with pride about the privatized banking system, about its expansion in the Balkans, about the granting of loans to make up for the income lost by the workers, about the "new banking products".
Today, this financial system, which would fill the gap left by de-industrialisation and the contraction of agricultural production, which would bring investment, create jobs and, with mortgages, give everyone a home, is a plague on society.
What has been given to the banks in cash and guarantees by the state is many times its value, and now the partners of the two-party system are planning to give them even more.
The financial system can and should be made public and fundamentally reformed into a new banking system, with democratic and transparent administration and management with employee participation and strong control rights.
This is what we mean by the slogan: Nationalization-Socialization of Banks.
Depending on their mission, banks can be owned by different public bodies, both state and non-state, such as cooperatives, with the guarantee and protection of the state.
Their exclusive concern will be to protect savings and channel resources into development on social and ecological criteria and prohibit any other speculative activity.
With public investment activity, with the assistance of the public banking system, small and medium-sized enterprises that are currently crushed by the lack of demand and liquidity and by the competition of big capital can be revived.
Supporting small and medium-sized enterprises with strict social and ecological criteria is a crucial factor for the reconstruction and production of domestic added value and innovation and for the creation of new jobs.
There can be no productive reconstruction without public investment and large public enterprises.
We need to return to the state the enterprises and organizations that have been partially or totally privatized (PPC, OTE, OSE, OSE, ELTA, EVDAP, Transport).
Maintain or return to public control and responsibility key productive units critical to the development of the economy, such as ports, airports, motorways, shipyards, mineral and energy wealth.
We are told that public enterprises and organisations have fostered corruption and clientelism.
It's not true.
Corruption and clientelism were bred by the partners of the two-party system.
In this way they consolidated their power and destroyed enterprises and organisations that had been built with the resources and efforts of the workers, and destroyed the agricultural cooperatives.
We do not want to return to this situation and this is another reason for the defeat of the partners of the two-party system.
Public enterprises and organisations, in order to serve the new development path, need to be restructured, managed and operated with public, social and labour control and absolute transparency, integrated in the overall democratic planning of the economy.
The concept of this new policy is the development of public and cooperative entrepreneurship which can and should be extended to the whole range of production and marketing.
In this way, new cooperative, socialised, participatory structures can be developed, aiming at a truly sustainable development, not based on virtual growth and speculation,
but on a more balanced and democratic management of common resources, in a more symbiotic relationship with nature.
With these means and tools, productive reconstruction can be planned and carried out.
Our logic is different from the one that prevailed in previous years and led to the disaster.
The criterion for us is not the profit of the capitalists, it is the employment and income of working people, the satisfaction of social needs, public goods.
With this orientation, the rich resources of our country can be exploited and wealth can be produced for the people who live from their work, for social security, for education, health and culture.
Serving social needs, public health and education at all levels, from nursery to university, the development of culture, the restoration and protection of the natural and built environment, care and support for the disabled, helping immigrants to integrate into our society, prevention and rehabilitation services for people addicted to substances, all this is not just expenditure.
It is also wealth creation.
Greece can produce, both in agriculture and in industry, in an environmentally friendly way, high quality food for domestic consumption and for export.
The development of organic agricultural production with the assistance of the state, the universities, the Agricultural Bank and democratically organized cooperative banks can revitalize the countryside, the mountainous and island regions, and protect the rural landscape that has been shaped by centuries of hard work.
Especially for the economy of the outermost island regions, it is necessary to maintain the reduced VAT rate.
Our country can develop its tourism industry without destroying the environment with golf courses and huge hotels.
The long hours of sunshine, the wind blowing on the islands, geothermal energy can be sources of clean energy
and, with proper planning, can replace fossil fuels.
But entrusting soft energy to private capital, instead of protecting the environment, destroys it with huge wind and photovoltaic parks, with no concern for nature and the needs of people.
The exploration and exploitation of mineral wealth and fossil energy sources, for as long as and to the extent that they are needed, must be planned by the state under democratic control
and in consultation with local communities.
To do this, public institutions for the management of mineral wealth and energy resources and public research institutions are needed.
The principles of absolute validity for us in the exploration and exploitation of natural resources are environmental friendliness
and the peaceful settlement of disputes with neighbouring countries through mutual compromises for mutual benefit.
The public sector, with the huge demand it is developing, can set ecological and social criteria for the selection of its suppliers, as well as for any economic activity that is supported or subsidised.
The restoration and protection of the environment itself is a source of wealth and job creation.
and creates jobs.
But this cannot be done by the market or the pursuit of profit.
They are already taking advantage of the crisis internationally to reduce the resources allocated to the environment and to control the environmental impact of economic activity.
A major effort and international cooperation is needed to
restore the balance in our seas that are dying from pollution and overfishing.
Reclaim our forests that have been burned or built on and effectively protect them.
There should be a plan to replace fossil, polluting and thermal energy sources with a medium-term goal of full replacement by soft energy sources and with specific short-term measurable targets.
Reform production in the direction of saving energy and raw materials, replacing short-lived goods with long-lived goods and reducing transport.
To effectively solve the problem of domestic, industrial and agricultural waste and refuse.
5. Steady work with a decent salary and full insurance
The unprecedented attack on workers in recent years has created a completely new situation.
The so-called labour market has turned into a jungle where the right of the employer, who now has absolute authority over everything, literally applies.
Labour law and especially collective bargaining law has been dismantled.
Income from work has taken a huge hit with dramatic cuts, increased taxation and higher taxes.
The trade unions are fighting a merciless war.
The country's valuable workforce is being devalued by the huge increase in unemployment.
In this way, a generalised model of degraded, insecure, deregulated and poorly paid work has been created.
The whole of Greece has become a special economic zone in the name of a supposed competitiveness, which hides the real aim: to overcome the reduced profitability of capital.
What they really want is for Greek employees to compete with their colleagues in other countries with lower and lower wages, fewer and fewer rights.
We are told that this will bring investment, growth and jobs.
The truth is that with every new measure they take against labour, with every passing month unemployment increases, the recession grows.
But also, the constant devaluation of the education and skills of workers and their position in the production process reduces productivity and the quality of the product produced.
SYRIZA-United Social Front believes that the continuation of this unacceptable situation leads to the disintegration of social cohesion and to a trap of anachronism and decline of the Greek economy and society.
The process of devaluation of labour must be reversed immediately.
What we need is a democratically regulated, stable, well-paid work regime, with an enhanced role for workers in the work process, with guaranteed health and safety conditions.
For a labour model that will strengthen social cohesion and compete with the anti-labour and regressive model of neoliberalism with high quality work and high productivity.
To this end, we need immediately:Repeal of the Cabinet Act of 14/2/2012, which reduced the minimum wage by 22% (32% for young people up to 25 years old) and abolished collective agreements.
Restoration of all provisions that were in force for collective agreements, the OMED and arbitration.
Immediate settlement and no dismissals of public sector contract workers.
Drastic restriction of fixed-term contracts only to cover identified temporary and exceptional needs.
Drastically limiting part-time work with a view to its complete abolition.
Extended labour and wage protection for part-time workers.
Abolish the hiring of workers and rotational work and conclude open-ended contracts with those who are under this regime.
Prohibition of work with a service voucher (blockchain) and project contracts, when they imply an employment or generally dependent employment relationship.
Cancellation of the regulation on the comprehensive arrangement of working time.
Abolition of the labour reserve in the public sector.
Equal employment and wage rights for men and women.
Restoration of the limits that applied to collective redundancies and the provisions on redundancy payments.
Equalisation of compensation for termination of the employment contract of workers with that of employees.
Equalisation of compensation for termination of the employment contract of workers with that of employees.
Ensuring equal treatment at work for migrant workers.
The use of illegal - "black labour", the violation of insurance and labour legislation, collective agreements, trade union rights and the violation of legal or contractual working hours is a dual offence for employers, with prosecution and a minimum two-year prison sentence.
Undertaking or participating in a public project in any way requires a letter of guarantee to satisfy statutory wage or insurance claims of employees.
Codifying labour legislation and speeding up the time for adjudication of labour disputes by establishing labour courts.
Strengthening of the Labour Inspectorate, with adequate staffing and a sound logistical infrastructure. Expand the competences of labour inspectors (investigative tasks).
SYRIZA-United Social Front strongly supports, even in the period of crisis, that stable work as constitutionally guaranteed in the public sector with permanent employment, in the public sector with permanent employment, in the public sector and in the banks with labour regulations and with the permanent contract provide security to the worker, limit his dependence on political and other expediencies and at the same time make work more efficient.
Only in absolutely certain, specific cases can seasonal work be justified, which also needs strict regulation.
The wage must allow the worker to live with dignity.
The amount of the allowance needs to take into account the cost of living, education and qualifications, position, family situation, unhealthiness and the risk of work.
With the single pay scale in the public sector and the activation of collective agreements, we must be able, without irrationality and fragmentation, to reach, within two years, the level of wages that was guaranteed in 2009 and since then, collective bargaining can operate freely everywhere.
The labour model we propose requires a high employment rate, which means that the first concern, far from accounting concepts, is to meet the huge needs that exist in particular in social services, education and health.
6. Radical reform of the state. //| Democracy everywhere. //| Equal rights for all.
The period of the PASOK government and the PASOK-ND-LAOS coalition government under the Prime Minister of Loukas Papademos led to the deterioration of the democratic constitution, to contempt for the Constitution.
In order to implement the political imperatives of the European Union's leading centre and the economic imperatives of the Troika, the constitution was violated and the procedures of the Parliament were degenerated.
The police repression and the authoritarianism of the state took on an extent the country had never known since the dictatorship.
The media, especially the electronic media, have been aligned in a campaign of manipulation, terror and disciplining of the people.
We were told that private broadcasting would be a tool for pluralism.
We now know that it is the cruelest complex for the abolition of pluralism, corruption and serving selfish interests.
Democracy is degenerating into a formality, an "empty shirt".
The manipulations especially of the European leadership and the enforcement of its decisions, when the Greek political leadership was incapable of passing this policy, humiliated the Greek people and wounded their dignity.
Previously, changes in local government under "Kapodistrias" and "Kallikrates" had already transformed its institutions into instruments for implementing government planning and executing government decisions.
The possibility of citizen participation has been reduced by the huge size of the municipalities and the reduced powers of the communities.
The effective abolition of trade union rights and the role of trade union organisations of employees has deprived hundreds of thousands of people of the possibility to elect their representatives with competence and power and to participate in the shaping of their working conditions.
At the same time, bureaucracy, corruption and clientelism continue to permeate large parts of the public administration and create suffocating conditions for the exercise of even the most basic rights of citizens.
There can be no productive reconstruction without the participation of citizens, with an authoritarian system of government and administration, with police democracy, surveillance of citizens, and a state of emergency in the streets and squares.
The principles of a new framework for the organisation and operation of institutions, public administration and local government should be equal access of citizens to institutions and administration,
the guarantee of social, political and individual rights, including real gender equality
and equal treatment of migrants,
democratic planning and control,
public accountability at all levels and in all areas, without exceptions and "statutes of limitations" that legitimise both corruption and irresponsibility.
We demand the expansion of the scope of democratic participation and its extension to all decision-making processes.
Full freedom of expression.
Fighting the manipulation of the people by the media by limiting the jurisdiction of the owners and increasing the rights of workers, journalists, technicians and administrators.
Frequencies are social property and cannot be ceded to private interests.
We demand the democratisation of the political system.
The constitutional safeguarding and protection of public goods (education, health, environment, environment, welfare) and public property,
the separation of church and state,
the constitutional safeguarding of the electoral system of simple proportional representation in all elected bodies, from the organs of self-government to the Greek Parliament.
Local government institutions need to be reformed in order to increase the possibilities for decisive citizen participation at the local level.
In order to be able to produce substantial work, local government needs guaranteed resources and administrative independence.
The introduction of the possibility to call binding referendums at all levels by popular initiative can provide greater opportunities for popular participation.
In particular, participation in the European Union makes it necessary to institutionalise the compulsory recourse to the popular verdict on crucial issues of constitutional order and popular sovereignty, such as the European Treaties.
Parliament needs to be given greater powers of control over government and administration.
Transfer to Parliament the power to dissolve itself and call early elections.
To give MPs more control over the government and effective legislative initiative.
To reconstruct the Budget Implementation Monitoring Office and give it the necessary infrastructure, more powers and independence vis-à-vis the government majority and the government.
To place critical services, such as the Statistical Authority, the Police and the Coast Guard, the NSA under the supervision of bipartisan parliamentary committees
Parliament should have the power to discuss and approve the framework and the general direction of the government's representatives in the institutions of the European Union.
To abolish all parliamentary privileges not related to the exercise of parliamentary duties, in particular the parliamentary pension, the special allowance for participation in parliamentary committees and the police guarding of MPs.
Members must have all the means to carry out their duties without their office conferring any particular financial or other benefits.
Abolish the law on ministerial responsibility, in particular the short statute of limitations,
and give the judicial authorities the power to prosecute members of the government.
The Public Order and Security Services obey the logic of repressing popular mobilisations, with Hun-inspired special units, military structure and training and the cultivation of anti-democratic attitudes among their personnel.
Instead of developing and implementing modern methods of crime prevention and suppression, they carry out sweep operations against migrants, homeless people and drug addicts and violate the rights of citizens by monitoring their every move with cameras.
The existence of neo-fascist pockets and the organisation of provocations make their activity dangerous for democracy.
Their armed presence at rallies and demonstrations, but also in the streets and squares of cities, is not aimed at fostering a sense of security, but at intimidation.
The democratisation of the Security Corps with the safeguarding of the labour and trade union rights of the employees there is a prerequisite for the exercise of civil rights, but also for the effective prevention, deterrence and prosecution of crime.
The security of citizens requires democratically organised services
with properly trained staff.
It is needed:
Public order services should be civil services.
Demilitarise the Police and the Coast Guard in terms of their organisation, training and appearance.
Stop training in military facilities.
Dismantle the special forces aimed at suppressing popular mobilisations.
Ban the carrying of weapons and the presence of undercover police officers at demonstrations and rallies.
Stop hiring police officers and port officers other than graduates of productive schools.
Those who are otherwise recruited should be given the opportunity to be trained in productive schools and, if they are not successful, transferred to other public services.
To radically change the curriculum of the productive schools of the Public Order Services in favour of theoretical courses, such as Law, Psychology, Sociology, with emphasis on contemporary social issues, such as immigration, drugs and social exclusion.
The defeat of the two-party partners and their satellites will also prevent the reactionary change of the Constitution they are preparing.
It will prevent the constitutionalisation of austerity and
the constitutional cession of national wealth to the creditors.
Instead, it will pave the way for the creation of a popular movement for a democratic constitutional revision that will strengthen the guarantee of political and social rights, especially workers' rights and popular freedoms, and protect public property and public goods.
The curtailment of political and social rights is characteristic of the policy of the Memoranda.
Arbitrary zones and rights-free spaces are being expanded or created.
A regime of authoritarianism is imposed in the workplace and in the learning environment, authoritarianism in the Armed Forces goes far beyond the necessary discipline, and the regime of special military judicial authorities still exists.
In prisons and detention centres, in places where migrants and refugees, especially undocumented people, live, in streets where homeless people or addicts are found, there is a need to develop social care and equal rights.
No one is allowed to live without rights, especially the most vulnerable groups of the population.
We are fighting for the broadening of the concept of asylum and its quick granting,
for the granting of travel documents to those who wish to travel to other countries, for the
abolition of the Dublin II Treaty, for the
social integration of migrants
and the guarantee of equal rights.
We seek to create open spaces for refugees, with social and legal protection services, instead of the concentration camps that are being prepared:
the decoupling of the granting of residence permits from the existence of a certain number of badges.
Facilitating family reunification.
Prosecuting only the employer in cases of uninsured migrant labour.
Facilitating naturalisation, especially for migrant children.
The abolition of all restrictions on access to the institutions of public health and education.
Today, following a wide-ranging international debate, it is common ground that the criminalisation of drug use should be abolished, with safeguards to combat trafficking.
However, the Greek state refuses to implement anything beyond repression.
The minimum that is needed and can be done immediately is:Public treatment facilities everywhere
Generous funding for all rehabilitation organisations.
Taking over the costs of rehabilitation from the social security funds.
Adoption and mandatory implementation of laws for the reintegration of recovered users.
There is a need to abolish the imprisonment of minors.
Until its complete abolition, it is necessary to separate juvenile and adult prisoners.
Prisons cannot be uninhabitable.
Members of Parliament, independent authorities and social actors should have access and the right to scrutiny.
Permits, education, semi-freedom, semi-freedom and conditional dismissal must be a right, provided the legal conditions are met, and the arbitrary rejection of such requests must cease.
Free sexual choice, without fear and shame, is a human right that must be guaranteed by the state without discrimination in terms of cohabitation and civil marriage or civil partnership.
Conscientious objection must be protected.
Abolish the conscience check committee and create adequate opportunities for community service.
Disability is a multifaceted and complex condition.
People with disabilities have to face and remove barriers every day: to self-care and independent living, to their physical and mental health, to work, to education, to leisure.
Education in special, properly staffed schools,
but also the gradual integration of as many people as possible into the general public education system with the appropriate infrastructure must be a constant concern of the state.
The General Building Code needs to enforce accessibility for people with disabilities in all buildings, especially public and newly built buildings.
An adequate network of early diagnosis of disability and rehabilitation centres needs to be established.
7. A strong welfare state. No one is alone in the hard times of life.
A weak, fragmented, and ineffective welfare state has developed in our country.
The attack of the last two years led to its complete demolition.
Social care has turned into miserable charity.
The social responsibility of the state becomes an individual responsibility.
They tell us that in this way they are ensuring the sustainability of the welfare system.
This is not true.
In fact, they want to shrink state spending on the social security and welfare system in order to preserve the tax privileges of the few, while pushing those who can into private for-profit insurance systems.
The social protection system is not a burden or a space for speculative activity as neoliberalism treats it.
It is a prerequisite for citizens to have a sense of security so that they can create and participate in social and political life.
The Social Security System does need to be reformed, but in the opposite direction from the present one.
The main prerequisite for its consolidation and sustainability, however, is the fight against unemployment and the insurance of all workers, so that there is a steady flow of contributions.
The legalisation of migrants and the guarantee that their contributions will be paid, even if they leave, will contribute decisively to the financing of the social security system:
the abolition of anti-insurance laws.
The necessary resources must be secured through contributions and state participation
and there must be a system to combat contribution evasion and theft.
Ensure, through a long-term settlement, the return of its reserves that have been squandered or removed, as was recently the case with the "haircut" of government bonds.
This is how a social security system can work, providing full pensions at thirty-five years, based on two pillars of main and supplementary pensions, paying 80% and 20% of salary respectively, while ensuring more favourable arrangements for disability, maternity and childcare, heavy and unhealthy work.
The unemployment protection system needs a radical overhaul with measures to ensure that the unemployed, especially the long-term unemployed, can live a decent life.
The extension of unemployment benefits to all, both natives and immigrants, until they find a job, and its gradual increase to 80% of the last wage for the first two years,
special welfare for young people who have never found a job and the seasonally unemployed, as well as
special welfare measures, such as public transport tickets, admission to cultural events, rent subsidies and a ban on evictions, the suspension of loan servicing are necessary measures especially in periods like the present one when unemployment threatens the working class and youth with impoverishment.
The social welfare system needs to ensure that people who are vulnerable for whatever reason are not left helpless.
This includes people with disabilities, single-parent families, the elderly, households without income.
The various fragmented regulations and provisions need to be consolidated into a national system with guaranteed resources from the state budget.
A minimum guaranteed income, shelter with heating, lighting and telecommunications, food and clothing, transport, home help, legal protection and representation can thus become the rights of all citizens.
At the same time, especially in times of crisis, there is a need to encourage the building of social solidarity networks which, without replacing the obligations of the state, complement and reinforce collective forms of action.
8. Health cannot be a commodity. It is a social good and a right for all.
The reduction of total public (state and social security) health expenditure to half - 3% of GDP and below, when in the European Union the corresponding expenditure is more than double - is a declared goal of the partners of the two-party system and the Troika.
This is the purpose of all the changes that have been implemented or are being promoted in the health sector (hospital mergers and closures, EOPYY, medicine).
At a time when the crisis and poverty are pushing people en masse to the public health system (30% increase in attendance), it is being dramatically dismantled and shrinking.
With the drastic cuts in hospital budgets and the unpaid debts of the insurance funds, there is a clear risk of a total collapse of the public health system in a few months.
Hospitals are already closing or under-performing.
The available beds are limited.
The huge shortages of staff, materials, equipment and the over-rationalisation of health workers' work create conditions of precarious operation of hospitals and patient care.
At the same time, the transformation of the public hospital into a commercial enterprise is accelerating, with the central aim of increasing the "own" revenues from its economic activity (concession of public beds to private insurance companies, evening clinics, re-pricing of medical procedures, the KEN, the entry of private doctors),
while "fillets" are granted to speculative funds.
These policies directly threaten the very health of citizens, as has been shown in other European countries (Latvia, Romania, etc.) where, when the same measures were applied, morbidity and mortality rates increased.
Our two-party partners tell us that the merger of the health branches of the insurance funds and the establishment of EOPYY upgrade primary health care and create an integrated network of Primary Health Care.
It's not true.
In fact, even these inadequate IKA structures are being dismantled.
Nine million insured are "squeezed" into a system with fewer doctors, reduced benefits, a greater financial burden on patients and a deficit budget, which will certainly lead EOPYY to bankruptcy and the inability to meet the needs of the insured within the year.
Under the pretext of fighting corruption and waste in the pharmaceutical sector, they pass on the cost of pharmaceutical expenditure to patients.
Hundreds of medicines are excluded from the prescription lists, while the only criterion for medication is the cost of the medicine rather than its suitability.
The small neighbourhood pharmacy is also a victim of this policy, which is being wiped out for the benefit of the big drug chains.
The "unloading" of the responsibility of welfare from the Ministry of Health, the merger and abolition of welfare structures, the reduction of welfare benefits, the underfunding of psychosocial care units and rehabilitation units, foreshadow the worst for the most vulnerable social groups.
Immediate needs and fronts of struggle in the health sector are:Not to merge and not to abolish any public health unit.
Everyone who lives and works in the country should have free access to public hospitals without any financial burden for examinations and hospital fees.
Fill the staffing gaps by recruiting health workers of all specialties and not create more with the planned redundancies.
Abolish the contribution to medicines and examinations immediately for low pensioners, the unemployed, students and sufferers of chronic diseases and gradually for all.
Access to adequately tested medicines based on their suitability for the health needs of citizens and not on the accounting concept of lowest cost.
To support vulnerable social groups (disabled, mentally ill, elderly, poor, drug addicts, etc.) by funding social structures and upgrading care services.
SYRIZA-United Social Front does not accept or support the current morbid and inefficient NHS that is suffering patients and health professionals.
It demands a new integrated, well-staffed, free and universal health system, to which
every person in need will have access, regardless of their economic and social situation or nationality.
In our understanding of health there is no room for business for profit.
The main factor that will lead to the contraction and eventual elimination of private sector activity in the health sector will be the universality and quality of the public sector.
A prerequisite for the realisation of this objective is the adequate funding of health care from the state budget, which should be the main source of funding for the system, and rational and transparent management.
The main elements of our proposal are:To gradually and in a short period of time increase health spending to 6% of GDP.
The establishment of an integrated system of primary health care and post-nursing rehabilitation, which will constitute the basic pillar of the new truly public health system
The upgrading of hospital care with technological equipment and sufficient permanent health personnel.
The all-round upgrading of the EOF, the organisation of a national pharmaceutical industry for the production of essential medicines and health care materials, the establishment of a public body for their supply - storage and distribution.
9. Protecting Education and Culture from the policy of the Memoranda.
Education is the irrefutable proof that the crisis and the debt are being used as an alibi by the partners of the policy of the Memoranda.
For decades now, both parties have been trying to alter the public character of education, to limit the state's obligation to provide full and free education at all levels.
In no other period of modern Greek history has education as a public and social good been so questioned and undermined.
The state is significantly reducing funding for education.
Individuals enter at all levels.
The main purpose of education is the ability of the graduate to meet the criteria of the labour market, i.e. employers.
We are told that this is how education is linked to production and that this is the best way to ensure young people's professional rehabilitation.
It's not true.
Mono-skilled school, vocational training school or university graduates, trained to accept the social hierarchy, serve the temporary needs of enterprises and relieve them to some extent of the costs of training their staff.
But this is at the expense of a broad education, which is the only one that allows for adaptation and continuous training.
Moreover, this deprives society of people of high educational level who will be educated and will only exist in the schools of rich countries.
Education is limited to a small elite.
This is a step backwards compared to the very recent past.
It deprives young people of the joy of knowledge and society of the possibility of development, innovation and intellectual life.
We, on the contrary, believe that without a high level of education, society is threatened by stagnation and economic and cultural decline.
That this is why we need high quality education for all and for all and therefore it cannot be a commodity.
We seek, therefore, to abolish all private and business activity at all levels of education.
We seek a democratic education system free from the evils of exclusion and social discrimination, inequalities and racism.
We reject educational systems that reproduce the distinction between "above" and "below".
We aim at an education that abolishes the distinction between manual and intellectual workers within a single educational structure.
We reject the neoliberal doctrines that turn the weakest social strata into "employable" low-skilled, flexible and exploitable workers.
We envision an education that is not bound by the demands of capital's profitability, but satisfies people's needs for knowledge and intellectual creation.
This also favours the two-way feeding of education and production.
Speculation is not part of our aspirations for education.
Only a uniform public and free system of education at all levels, including vocational education, can ensure high-quality education and training and the reduction of class discrimination until its complete elimination.
The priority now is to cancel the plan for school closures and mergers that increases the number of students per class, increases the distances from home to school and puts a strain on students, parents and teachers.
Together with the stakeholders of the educational community and after a dialogue with the participation of teachers, parents, pupils and students, scientific associations and institutions, it is necessary to design a progressive educational reform with an upgraded role and position of teachers.
Its basic content is a uniform fourteen-year compulsory education (2 years of pre-school and 12 years of general education) with a broad programme of courses and activities.
For primary education we seek:
The operation of an all-day, well-organised school.
Tackling illiteracy and school drop-out.
The restructuring and enrichment of curricula with courses and activities in environmental education, gender equality education, health education, music and sports, human rights education, the value of peace, solidarity, etc.
The continuous integration of the achievements of Pedagogy in the textbooks, in the structure and content of courses and teaching methods in collaboration with teachers.
The institutionalization of the Unified Lyceum of theory and practice with the abolition of the current split into General Lyceum - Vocational Lyceum - Vocational School is our priority for secondary education:
The decoupling of the Lyceum from the system of access to higher education and the abolition of parapedia.
The creation of a cycle of exclusively public and free post-secondary Technical Vocational Education
free access to Higher Education for all, without class and economic barriers
the substantial support and upgrading of minority schools
For a unified higher education, we propose:The upgrading of curricula and the protection of degrees
The defence of the public good of democratic, free university education.
The strengthening of the academic character and the absolute autonomy of higher education institutions.
The suspension of the implementation of Law 4009 until its final withdrawal and the restart of the dialogue on education.
The safeguarding of academic autonomy and freedom in research and teaching, as well as the principles of ethics, concerning the functioning of collective bodies, the role and position of university teachers.
FOR CULTURE
The prevalence of the logic of profit, combined with the flattening dominance of the neoliberal version of cultural management, has resulted in the gradual withdrawal of the state from all sectors of cultural production
and the assignment to private individuals of the responsibility and privilege of planning and implementing a cultural policy that is market-oriented.
In Greece, the humiliating benefits from the public budget for the arts, letters and cultural heritage are a feature that distinguishes all post-communist governments, but especially the governments of the last two decades.
For the implementation of an integrated and effective cultural policy, it is necessary to:Organically link education to the cultural scene.
Sufficient public funding.
Ensuring the necessary infrastructure for cultural creation.
Pluralism and freedom of expression.
Regional cultural policy.
Decentralising cultural services, reducing inequalities in access to them, supporting local artistic creation
10. Independent and peaceful foreign policy
At the same time that the old Western world is being shaken by crises, the new forces that have emerged on the international political scene continue to strengthen their position.
China and India are deploying and Russia is spending gigantic sums to confirm its position as the world's second military power.
On the part of the Western powers, the US-led alliance seeks to reaffirm its leading position in the world, based on undisputed military superiority, while economic superiority is at least limited.
The pressures against Iran, Israel's continued aggressive and expansionist policy and the open sore of the Palestinian issue make the Southeastern Mediterranean and the Middle East maintain their position as the most combustible region in the world.
Turkey's claim to a hegemonic position in our region, albeit at a distance from US policy, contributes to this.
In the same region and in North Africa, popular uprisings against authoritarian regimes have changed the situation.
What all these movements have in common is the claim for social justice, democratic freedoms, but also national goals of the Arab world, such as the liberation of Palestine.
The ongoing civil war in Libya, even after the assassination of the dictator Gaddafi, shows how correct was the Left's categorical rejection of NATO intervention, even if it was mandated by the UN, and that this intervention, like the previous ones in Iraq and Afghanistan, was not aimed at peace, the liberation of the Libyan people and the cessation of oppression by the dictatorial regime.
Exactly the same is true in the case of Syria, but this does not diminish the need for solidarity with peoples suffering under dictatorial regimes.
The foreign policy of constant adaptation to the plans of the most powerful, which the Greek governments have applied so far, has failed.
The economic and fiscal crisis is forcing Greece to reduce its claims to leadership in the region.
Nevertheless, and despite the forced restriction of arms expenditure,
Greece's remaining in NATO, but also its very humble attitude within the Alliance, maintains the risk of involvement in military adventures.
Greek foreign and military policy continues to be complicit in the war in Afghanistan and Greek military forces participate in joint European Union and NATO corps for interventions and wars.
Particularly dangerous is the military alliance with expansionist Israel, on the one hand the result of the adaptation to the wishes of the most powerful imperialist centres and on the other hand the Turkish-Israeli cold war,
which the Greek governments are short-sightedly seeking to exploit.
Our policy contains
Disengagement from international or bilateral agreements and activities linked to the so-called "war on terror", which serve only the logic of curbing democratic rights, suppressing movements and resistance and the hegemonic plans of the US and the dominant powers of the EU//|.
The withdrawal of Greek military forces from missions that constitute interventions of imperialism in foreign territories, especially from Afghanistan and the Balkans.
For the Greek Armed Forces, the principle must apply: no soldier outside the borders of Greece.
The termination of military cooperation with Israel and the renunciation of any plans for a military attack on Iran and Syria.
Support for the struggle for the creation of an independent Palestinian state on the 1967 borders.
The closure of all foreign bases in Greece.
Immediate abolition of the bases of Souda and Aktio.
We do not want Greece in NATO, nor NATO in Greece, and we are fighting for its dissolution.
The firm position against the presence in any way (installation, stationing or transit) of nuclear weapons and other weapons of mass destruction in Greece and the Eastern Mediterranean region
The principle of a multidimensional independent foreign policy based on the defence of peace.
The exclusion of war, the use or threat of use of force from relations between states.
On this principle, we seek the development of inter-state relations, good neighbourliness and equal cooperation in all areas, the mutual, balanced and stable de-armament through appropriate agreements.
Greece's relations with all states, especially our neighbours, must be based on respect and the pursuit of mutual benefit, the inviolability of borders and the territorial integrity of all countries.
In this context, we support the need to define, after negotiations between neighbouring states, the Exclusive Economic Zones in our region.
In this context, we support dialogue with Turkey and the effort to find a mutually acceptable solution to the name issue of FYROM.
We support the policy of the Republic of Cyprus for the reunification of the island into a single bizonal federation with a fair settlement of the territorial and property issue, as well as the return of all Cypriots, if they so wish, to their homes.
They will not blackmail us, they will not scare us. Together we can defeat them!
All of us together, with our mobilisations, we have already brought down the first government of the Memorandum.
With our vote we can provide a solution.
To prevent the parties of the Memorandum and their satellite parties from gaining a majority and to create a new majority and a new government with the Left as its core and leading force.
We have committed ourselves - in parliament, in the movements, in the trade unions - that we are fighting to overturn the Memoranda and the Loan Agreements.
We are committed to rejecting the new Pact for the Euro.
The reversal in Greece will send a strong message to Europe that the people are not being blackmailed.
It will be a message of hope for European workers.
There are still forces on the left and in ecology that hesitate or refuse. //|We insist:
Let's unite and defeat them!
If not now, when?
If not us, who?
