PRESS OFFICE OF THE CENTRAL COMMITTEE 145 Heraklion 145-142 31 PERISSOS Tel: 210-2592418 fax: 210-2592388e-mail: mailbox@gt.kke.gr, http://www.kke.grΚΑΛΕΣΜΑ of the Central Committee for the Election of July 7
KEKE STRONG - YOUR STRENGTH FOR THE NEXT DAY
Workers, farmers, professionals, pensioners, young people, young people In the elections of July 7, the KKE calls on you to decide on the basis of what the people really need for the next day.
THESE ELECTIONS WILL DECIDE HOW STRONG WILL BE THAT FORCE THAT IS FIRMLY AND PERMANENTLY BY YOUR SIDE, IN THE FACE OF ADVERSITY, THAT NEVER GIVES UP THE FIGHT.
IT IS JUDGED HOW STRONG THE KKE WILL BE, IN ORDER TO STRENGTHEN THE POPULAR RESISTANCE, THE COUNTER-ATTACK, THE HOPE, THE PROSPECT OF SOCIAL PROSPERITY.
We can face the next day with optimism
if we have a consistent, fighting and uncompromising force in Parliament and in the popular movement.
The fairy tale of the "post-memorandum era" and "fair development", which SYRIZA advocates, or "sustainable development", which the New Democracy promotes, does not concern the everyday life of the people.
The problems, the suffering, the insecurity are here.
Because all the causes that brought us to this point and every government policy that reproduces and reinforces them remain.
Because the vast majority of the memorandum measures are being incorporated and a new cycle is being added based on the EU agenda.
The dilemmas "political change and stability", put forward by the New Democracy, and "progress or restoration of maintenance", put forward by Syriza, are false,
because both serve the same unpopular strategy.
They are parties that express the defence of the interests of big capital against the needs of the people.
As well as the other parties that claim a post-electoral upgraded role in the political system.
For the people, the real dilemma of the elections is one:
Whether the next day the force that fights for rights, inside and outside the Parliament, that paves the way for a radical overthrow, will grow stronger.
The conservative policy, with any unpopular government, self-reliance or cooperation, is neither willing nor able to be opposed by parties that have been tested in governmental positions all the previous years and today are or tomorrow will be in the role of the opposition, following "right-wing" policies, even under the mask of "left" and "progress".
They cannot organise and promote in the least the struggle and the demands of the people both inside the Parliament
and especially outside it in the streets of struggle, where everything is finally decided.
The conservative policy is supported and reproduced by the other opposition parties,
regardless of any criticism of the government.
The KKE: It fought against the anti-people's governments, with either ND or SYRIZA at its core,
organised and supported the struggles and demands of the wage earners in factories, tourism, transport, construction, schools, hospitals, farmers, pupils and students, people with disabilities.
It is the real opponent of the present path of the monopolies, the EU, NATO, which the other parties serve, regardless of their individual differences.
That is why it is the one that informs the people and opposes the dangerous plans of NATO, the USA, the EU, in which our country is involved, with the agreement of the other parties.
It is the Party that stands and will stand by the unemployed, the dismissed, the breadwinner, the professional, the scientist, the farmer, the youth, the pensioner, those under the threat of seizures and auctions.
It is that which has been the real, militant, popular opposition everywhere.
It puts forward proposals for real relief for workers, the unemployed, the self-employed,
farmers,
young people, women, pensioners.
We will continue to do this with the strength of the working people's movement, the Social Alliance.
We will demand:Increases in wages, pensions, free upgraded social benefits for all.
Restoration of Collective Labour Agreements,
increase of the minimum wage to 751 euros.
Steady work with rights, abolition of flexible working relations, health and safety conditions at work.
Recruitment of permanent staff in the structures of public health, education, local government organisations, social services and organisations in general.
Conversion of fixed-term contracts into open-ended contracts in the public and wider public sector.
Repeal all the laws that liberalise redundancies, abolish the Sunday holiday, liberalise working hours.
Public universal compulsory Social Security, no worker uninsured.
Restoration of the 13th and 14th pensions.
Retirement at 60 for men, 55 for women.
Abolition of the ENFIA.
No more taxes.
Freezing debts for the entire period of unemployment.
Prohibition of auction of main residence for debts up to 200.000 euro.
Unemployment benefit for all unemployed people at 80% of the basic wage.
Day nurseries for all children. Abolition of food subsidies.
Re-integration of self-employed professionals, craftsmen and traders to the tax-free threshold, as it applies to employees and farmers.
Abolition of the tax levies, such as the business tax.
Deletion of interest and fines as well as 30% of the remaining debts to the tax authorities - banks - municipalities.
Similarly, for their personal insurance debts to the EFKA, the cancellation of interest, fines and debts for the health contribution, while at the same time providing pensions without cuts.
Reducing the cost of agricultural and livestock production.
Lowest guaranteed prices.
Protection of production from any disaster and full compensation to farmers - livestock farmers.
Increased spending on welfare, benefits and disability pensions.
Work for all able-bodied disabled people.
Complete and free treatments, medicines, tests and technological aids for all disabled chronic sufferers.
Public and free facilities for diagnosis, education and rehabilitation of children with disabilities and learning difficulties.
Especially for women: 1,000 euro maternity allowance, maternity leave for all employees, with full pay and insurance, regardless of employment relationships.
Maternity leave allowance for self-employed women and farmers.
Exclusive public free care and education for all pre-school children.
A network of free children's camps.
Measures and creation of the necessary infrastructure for seismic shielding, flood and fire protection in all regions of the country, etc.
It is the KKE that fights not only to take back all that we have lost,
but also for everyone to have a job capable of ensuring a life with satisfaction of needs,
with modern rights, with leisure time, as the new technologies in the service of the people reduce the necessary daily working time.
It fights for the organisation of society and the economy, where the worker will not be exploited, but will have a decisive, dominant role in the organisation of production, in the distribution of wealth, so that the overall quality of life for all rises.
There is another sure way for the working class, our people!
Elections will not overthrow the rotten exploitative system.
But they can strengthen the people's movement today, putting a brake on the worst and opening the road to reversal.
Today's barbarism is not a one-way street.
Greece has an experienced workforce and scientific potential.
It has enormous potential for industrial
and agricultural production, which can ensure the welfare of the people, the satisfaction of modern needs,
while protecting the environment
and generally reducing working hours.
These, however, are either subordinated to the profitability of capital, or remain unused,
because they do not constitute "comparative advantages" in capitalist competition, i.e. they do not lend themselves to large and quick profits.
These possibilities are also undermined by EU restrictions and allocations.
Society can live without the capitalists,
to set in motion production, services with other social relations, socialism.
This is the plan of the KKE that can be put into practice
The changes needed by the working class, the small and medium-sized peasantry, the self-employed and scientists will come from below.
With strong organization and struggle everywhere.
By building their Social Alliance.
By allying with the KKE, regardless of individual disagreements on programmatic issues.
The workers' - people's movement must and can both in Greece and throughout Europe organise its counter-attack: For the overthrow of the power of capital in every country,
for social ownership
and central planning with workers' - people's participation in the organs of management and power,
for disengagement from imperialist alliances of the EU and NATO type.
It is through this path that the conditions for radical changes and reversals for the benefit of the people's interests will be created.
It is through this road that the working class, in alliance with the popular strata, will be able to conquer its own power, workers' power.
The "many" should build their own state to
replace the present hostile and rotten bourgeois state, the dictatorship of capital.
Turn your backs on the false dilemmas, on the blackmail, on the promises without impact SYRIZA, ND, KINAL have various variations of the same unpopular - reactionary "plan".
In their government programs they include and specify:The implementing laws of the 3 memoranda that they voted and implemented.
The enduring memoranda and the EU surveillance mechanisms.
Bloody surpluses until 2060.
The demands of big capital, dubbed "reforms".
The dangerous commitments with the country's participation in NATO - EU.
SYRIZA, ND, KINAL share the same plan, which says that the solution, the way out for the people will come through the famous recovery of the capitalist economy.
This recovery implies and requires: Greater flexibilisation of labour,
work until old age,
further commercialisation of health,
education and
welfare,
auctions of people's houses,
silence in the workplaces,
new privileges for capital,
such as dozens of tax breaks for shipowners, big capital,
everything that these parties voted for together.
This is what the EU "Trojans" demanded before, this is what the so-called "markets", the investors, demand today.
The Commission's "post-memorandum" reports show what awaits the people the next day under any government.
All of them are committed to this plan.
This is what all governments in the EU, right-wing, social-democratic, far-right, so-called "left-wing", all agree on.
That is why all of them, regardless of their colour, provoked popular protest.
Their bickering about the "7-day work week" or the "Pension Pinochet" attempts to hide the fact that these proposals are already EU guidelines, implemented in all member states.
Just look at what is happening in the sectors of Commerce, Tourism - Food, Health, Telecommunications, which concentrate a large number of workers, young people and women.
They have been promoted in our country by all governments, including that of SYRIZA (Katrougalos law, abolition of Sunday holidays, etc.).
This is what the Southwest is stepping on, to cynically formulate the claims of capital.
Their argument about the so-called "middle class" is also hypocritical.
They call those who are just above the poverty line "middle class", to hide the fact that they have together crushed the whole of the popular strata by levelling down wages, benefits and pensions.
The Southwest's plan for "less taxes" is not about the people,
but about reducing taxes on capital.
It's the other version of everything that Syriza has implemented.
The New Democracy plan will not save the "middle class", i.e. the self-employed in commerce, services, transport, scientists, farmers and others, because they are destroyed by the law of capitalist competition, "the big fish eats the small fish", which is also served by the government's policy of "reforms".
ND agrees with the EU and SEV that small businesses, essentially the self-employed, are a "structural" problem for the Greek economy.
Through blackmail, terrorism and false promises, both call on the people to choose the dose of austerity, memoranda, crumbs and investment projects for some temporary jobs, with very low wages, messy hours.
The logic of "be patient, accept sacrifices, don't ask for too much, give up claiming what you have lost, so that together we can support the recovery of profits and investments, in case there is a crumb left for us",
is a minefield for the people.
The other side of this coin is also the more active involvement of our country in the plans of the US and NATO, in the energy competitions that are escalating in the wider region.
This policy also brought about the US-NATO-style Prespa agreement.
This policy brings major new dangers for the Aegean and the Cyprus problem, in the logic of "co-management" promoted by NATO and the US.
It brings above all great dangers for the peoples in the region, more generalized warfare.
It is a huge lie that if Greece is the "good son of the imperialists", then it will protect its sovereign rights, it will have peace and security.
This has never been confirmed.
ND and PASOK before were the main preachers of this position, SYRIZA became even bigger in the last 4 years.
The economic crisis, unemployment, austerity, poverty are not the evils brought about by over-indebtedness and waste, mismanagement and the technocratic Germans imposed on the EU institutions.
All these are products of the rottenness of capitalism.
It is not the fate of the peoples.
There is another way to develop production, to organise the economy and society.
Capitalist development with the intensification of exploitation, with alternatives to the management of poverty and unemployment, is not a one-way street.
There is the path of resistance, of counter-attack, of struggle to bring the people to power, to become the organiser and master of the wealth they produce, to satisfy modern popular needs.
Don't give any indulgence to ND and PASOK.
Don't go back to old tried and failed options.
Use your experience of the illusions, false expectations and the policy in favour of the interests of big capital implemented by SYRIZA.
In these elections it is mainly the opposition in Parliament and among the people to the conservative policies of all the bourgeois parties that will be decided.
It is being judged whether the KKE has greater power to take the lead in organising the struggles, to bring out the power of the people, to press effectively, to demand, to extract conquests.
To reveal and present proposals in Parliament
for the real support and relief of the people,
against parties and governments whose only concern is how to squeeze the people.
The vote that is also scattered "to the right and left", without any real impact on the movement and in Parliament, ends up being a useless vote for the forces that really want to resist, to organise the popular counter-attack.
Don't scatter your vote to disposable parties
You have seen how the political system uses disposable parties.
After the would-be - in every election and period - systemic useful people have played the role of support, dike and relief, they fade away or return to their womb.
This is what happened with Potami, the Union of Centrists, ANEL, formerly DIMAR and LA.O.S.
This is now happening with parties such as the far-right party of Velopoulos' "Hellenic Solution", which is
preparing to play the role of the supposedly "serious Golden Dawn" in the political system.
This is also done with others, such as Baroufakis' Mera 25, to play, as others have done in the past, the role of a dike to radicalism, of the supposedly "realistic subversion" within the EU and the Euro,
which was tested in the first 6 months of SYRIZA's government and went bankrupt, while today he declares himself available again for cooperation with ND and SYRIZA.
They are deeply systemic parties, which is why their over-promotion by the media of the big capitalists is no accident.
To isolate the Nazi criminal Golden Dawn
The goal of isolating Golden Dawn from the broader popular strata must continue even further ahead of the national elections.
The Greek people and the youth should throw the Nazi murderous patchwork out of the Parliament.
And this battle to isolate the Nazis can only be fought with a much stronger KKE.
Because only the KKE strikes at the cause that gives rise to fascism.
At the same time, a blow must be struck, now that it is at the beginning, to the more general process of reshaping the nationalist far-right space with the emergence and strengthening of new formations and parties.
We can change the negative correlation!
Yes, there is a negative correlation in Greece and Europe.
Yes, the workers' - people's movement has not entered a counter-attack phase.
Yes, in broad sections of wage-earners, self-employed, young people, there is a predominance of reduced demands, defeatism, fatalism, which integrates, passivises, leads to abstention from the popular movement.
But today, broader layers of the people are much more positive towards the KKE, they follow its positions, they are concerned,
even if they have not yet decided to take a more important step.
They have not yet believed in their power, with their active participation in the workers' - people's movement, the Social Alliance.
But in these conditions, there is the constant force called the JRC.
There is the alliance with the KKE of people who fought together in the previous years in the labour and peasant movement, people from art, culture, sport, from the Armed Forces and the Security Forces, many of whom previously made other political choices.
This alliance has nothing to do with the transfers between the bourgeois parties that we have witnessed recently.
It expresses positive processes within the movement and not in the parliamentary backstage.
But there are positive processes in the workplaces, in the neighbourhoods, with the pioneering action of the communists, against the parties and governments of capital, the EU.
These processes must not be reduced, suspended, as we approach the parliamentary elections, under blackmail, terror and false dilemmas.
The next day must also find new forces on the road of organising the counter-insurgency, on the road of political and mass struggle.
We can and will change this correlation!
We are aware of our responsibilities to contribute more decisively to the reconstruction, militancy and massiveness of the workers' - people's movement, to the organization of the daily struggle of the people, to the creation of a great Social Alliance:
To prevent new measures.
For the real relief of the workers, the
unemployed,
the people's households, the
pensioners, the
youth,
all those who suffer.
For the satisfaction of modern popular needs.
To be vigilant and ready for the dangerous US-NATO plans and antagonisms in the region.
In order to have a real popular opposition within the people and within the Parliament,
against any next unpopular government that will emerge,
but also to put up a real wall against fascism - Nazism, nationalism and racism, in
order to open the way, with the people as the protagonist of developments.
Workers, workers,
young people,
we address those who voted for us in the European, regional and municipal elections, especially those who voted for us for the first time,
and we call on them to continue with even greater determination and conviction the step they have taken, confirming their choice in the national elections,
but also to meet in the movement, to walk hand in hand in the struggles.
We address all those who - with a "heavy heart" - voted in the European elections for the parties that disappointed them
or those they had rejected in previous years, voted for them without enthusiasm and without great expectations for something better.
We appeal to those who chose not to go to the polls, we invite them to reconsider.
On July 7, their indignation should not turn into another abstention,
but into active participation, for a strong KKE everywhere.
We appeal to all those who feel left-wing, progressive, democrats
and have not forgotten, have not altered, along with the four years of SYRIZA's government, their values and ideals, their goals and hopes, have
not surrendered them all to the system of all kinds of barbarism, exploitation, to the EU and NATO staffs.
They know that the concepts of "left", "progress", "democracy" are concepts identified with the unyielding class struggle
to improve our lives, with high ideals and values for the progress of society, with the
abolition of the exploitation of man by man and not to go back to the Middle Ages.
They are at the same time incompatible with deception, mockery, lying, arrogance.
We appeal to those who are worried about voting for SYRIZA again, in fear of the return of ND.
The result of the European elections came to confirm that SYRIZA, with its governance and its alliances, not only did not "get rid of the old", but "washed it out" and resurrected it, giving it the opportunity to appear justified,
since it too moved in the unpopular footsteps of ND and PASOK.
After all, it is the result of their unified strategy.
Indeed, Tsipras himself says that there can be a coalition with the Right, "if the conditions demand it"...
We address the workers, the working people, the people of toil, who may have given their vote to ND and PASOK/KINAL again, believing that this will punish SYRIZA, but they did not give absolution to the unpopular policy or a blank cheque for the continuation. Deep down they know that these parties will not change.
They will continue to do the same and they know how to do it like the "old caravans" of the system, taking advantage of the pardon card given to them by SYRIZA, the unpopular memorandum laws that it also passed.
We particularly address young people, the "children of the crisis".
You know that the KKE is not one of the same.
It did not suddenly appear in the elections to "pat the back" of the young and young people.
It is not a disposable party, like those that are created to painlessly defuse popular discontent and are promoted overnight to play a useful role in the system and then suddenly disappear, just as they appeared.
You know the KKE and the KNE from school, school, the workplace, the neighbourhood.
They fought with you for every small and big problem concerning education, professional rehabilitation, leisure time, against the scourge of drugs, for your very lives, they were pioneers in the struggle against fascism and racism.
That's where they have been, that's where they will continue to be.
That is why it is of great importance that the KKE and the KNE be stronger,
so that you also feel stronger and more confident that we can claim a world "in the soil of our dreams".
A vote for the KKE is the only anti-systemic vote for the youth, the only truly radical and subversive vote.
We all know that the hard times are not over because the economy has emerged from the almost ten-year crisis.
The anaemic recovery now under SYRIZA and the "more dynamic" promised by the New Democracy will not bring real support and strengthening of wages, pensions, working conditions, social support for the working mother, because all this does not fit into the fierce competition for capitalist profits in Greece, the EU and the world.
Conquests come only through struggle, but only the KKE supports the struggle, consistently.
The strengthening of the KKE is in your hands!
Now make the strengthening of the KKE your own affair.
So that the majority of our people can smile on election night.
To boost the optimism of our people, to strengthen the struggles, the demand.
We need it to get strength that will return to the people every day.
To finally illuminate our way, the way of the people, with power in their own hands.
Now, all of us are in the battle to strengthen the KKE.
That's the only winning vote!
THE CENTRAL COMMITTEE OF KEUNION 2019
