Rural development is a key aspect of the National Strategy for the reconstruction and sustainable development of the Greek Region.
It concerns the present and the future of thousands of Greek farmers, people who with their daily toil feed our economy and support the social fabric of the Greek countryside.
What we received in 2004
In March 2004, when we took over the government of the country,
The active rural population had decreased by 34%.
Real agricultural income had fallen by 11.2% in 2002-2003.
Agricultural income as a percentage of GDP fell from 10.15 in 1994 to 4.4% in 2004.
The uptake of CIP funds was only 17%.
Between 1997 and 2004, contracts for only 4 reclamation projects were signed, with a budget of €44 million.
No reliable register had been established
Agricultural exports were steadily declining.
policies make Greece better
We are committed to implementing a coherent and systematic agricultural policy to support rural incomes and invest in rural development, reversing their downward trend.
In just 3.5 years, together with the farmers, we have taken steps forward and achieved the first positive results.
22 billion euros have been secured from the EU by 2013 for subsidies and rural development actions.
Real agricultural income increased by 2% in 2005 and 2006.
Compared to 2003, the minimum pension of the OGA is doubled to 330 euros from 1-1-2008.
Debts of 1.1 billion euro are cancelled for 54,000 farmers.
Public expenditure increased by 45% and the absorption rate of Community funds in the agricultural sector tripled.
Annual subsidies (€2.2 billion) and compensations (€700 million) are paid faster
983 large and small agricultural projects are carried out throughout Greece, amounting to €680 million.
Local Rural Development Centres are set up, once the ASEP recruitment competition is completed.
1,150 investment projects were approved for investments in the processing and marketing of agricultural products, with public expenditure exceeding €472 million.
8,000 Young Farmers have been supported with special subsidy schemes.
The area under organic farming increased.
From 0.8% of total arable land in 2003, they have already exceeded 4.5%.
Exports of agricultural products increased by 33%.
We promote programs for the promotion and promotion of our agricultural products in foreign markets.
The preparation of 13 studies, one for each Region, was completed to identify the potential for restructuring crops, improving livestock production and facilitating the marketing of local agricultural products.
Our government priorities
Today, we continue to implement our programme for the development of our country's agricultural sector on a solid basis.
With an emphasis on the needs and problems of the present, but at the same time, with an eye firmly fixed on the challenges and opportunities of the future.
With an emphasis on the needs and problems of the present, but at the same time, with an eye firmly fixed on the challenges and opportunities of the future.
The objectives of the New Democracy government for the next four years are based on the following axes:
Improving competitiveness in the agriculture and forestry sector.
Improving the environment and the countryside.
Improving the quality of life in rural areas by diversifying the rural economy.
Sustainable development in the fisheries sector.
Strengthening livestock farming
Development of sustainable enterprises in the sector of standardisation, processing and marketing of agricultural products.
What we program
The use of €24 billion (€22 billion of Community funds and €2 billion of national contribution) to finance rural development actions and the payment of subsidies to Greek producers.
The establishment of the Forest Inventory.
The organisation of the agricultural sector based on the principles of modern entrepreneurship.
Increasing public investment for projects and actions in the agricultural and livestock sector.
The creation of modern, sustainable and competitive farms.
The production of high quality products that meet the requirements of domestic and international markets.
Improving and utilising human resources, by promoting knowledge transfer and fostering innovation.
The restructuring of plant potential by promoting investment in plant capital and agricultural infrastructure.
The rational management of the country's water resources, as well as the protection and sustainability of land resources.
The sustainable use of agricultural and forestry land
The design and implementation of integrated development actions that will respond to the local needs and problems of rural residents.
Providing development incentives for the development of sustainable enterprises in the sector of standardisation, processing and marketing of agricultural and fishery products.
The promotion of spatial planning and the definition of development zones for marine aquaculture.
The inclusion of reforestation in the 4th Programming Period.
The promotion of operational procedures for the Cooperative Organizations, the Expanded Working Group per product, the land policy, the improvement of controls for the import and movement of agricultural products.
Our choice was and remains the support of the rural world, so that it can move into tomorrow with confidence and self-assurance.
To be able to stay in his own country, to go and to lead, without fail, other people.
Social Security
A society of solidarity and cohesion
Our Government Priorities
Members of the insurance system
What we received in 2004
Our social security system is currently facing weaknesses that have been accumulating for years, due to the inaction and procrastination shown by the PASOK governments.
For reasons of party expediency, they followed the irresponsible tactic of passing the problem on to future generations, without taking any substantial measures to clean up the system.
As a result, in March 2004, we received an insurance system that was broken at every point and undermined the foundations of our economy and our society.
policies make Greece better
In the field of social security, we are implementing a coherent policy, with long-term planning and sound prospects.
Over the last three and a half years there has been systematic and coordinated work.
Housework.
With emphasis on the needs of the insured and especially the low pensioners, but also with a clear orientation towards the consolidation and modernisation of the social security system
Pension O.G.A. In 2003, we found the basic agricultural pension at 170.8 euros and, we are doubling it from 1-1-2008 to 330 euros.
Pension I.K.A. We found the ECSC at 111 euros in 2003 and doubled it to 230 euros from 1-1-2008.
The LAFKA has been abolished and the refund to pensioners of all deductions from previous years has been completed.
The assets of insurance funds have increased by 42% in three years.
From EUR 21.8 billion in 2003, it rose to EUR 28.9 billion in 2005 and EUR 31 billion in 2006.
Total expenditure on social security increased.
For 2007 alone they amount to EUR 10 792 million, compared to EUR 9 663 million in 2006.
This amount is the highest ever given to the social security funds, representing 5,17 % of GDP.
For the first time in the history of the Greek Social Security System, we have proceeded with the complete inventory, recording and publication of all the movable and immovable property of the Insurance Organisations.
We have reformed by law the institutional framework for the use of the assets of the Insurance Funds, enhancing its transparency and efficiency.
In a provision that we promoted in December 2006, it obliges the boards of the funds to submit balance sheets, actuarial studies and business plans, under penalty of dismissal of the administrations if they do not do so.
We consolidate main and supplementary insurance funds.
We found 87 main and supplementary insurance funds.
At the end of the year our goal is to reach 71.
And we keep going.
We resolved the insurance of the Banks.
We are intensifying the fight against tax evasion by reforming the institutional framework.
We are moving rapidly to rationalise spending in the health system by creating, among other things, the post of Inspector General of Health Expenditure.
The National Census of all insured persons continues, so that all Greek insured persons can be assigned a Social Security Number.
We are proceeding with the advertisement of 2,000 positions for permanent doctors in IKA.
Our governmental
Priorities
Pension reform is one of our key priorities for the coming four years.
We are moving steadily in the direction we have been following since 2004, with a plan, responsibility and consistency.
Our programme is developed on three levels:
The level of the main pension, financed by the state, the employer and the employee.
The level of provident funds, financed by the employer and the insured.
The level of supplementary pensions, financed by voluntary contributions of employees to Insurance Funds or Companies. This level is encouraged by the State through tax relief.
The resources to finance the Insurance System are secured by the steady upward trend of the economy, which we have already achieved.
Not with additional taxes and contributions, lower pensions and higher age limits.
We support our plan by further promoting fiscal consolidation, high growth rates and increased government revenues.
Our goal is to build a modern, fair and sustainable Social Security System that will provide security for the worker and a decent living for the survivor.
With dialogue, consensus, but also with determination, we are moving forward with the implementation of our programme:
Establishment of a National Minimum Pension.
Operational and organisational restructuring of insurance institutions to avoid waste.
Rapid promotion of computerisation.
Gradual consolidation of funds and branches in the main and supplementary insurance, as well as sickness funds.
Consolidation brings large economies of scale in the long term and therefore a reduction in costs for the benefit of policyholders.
Effective use of the movable and immovable assets of the Funds.
Decisively tackle tax evasion.
Issue of a Social Security Card to facilitate the verification and cross-checking of data.
Streamlining of the Sickness Sectors, with the full introduction of a system to shorten procedures and provide efficient service to policyholders.
Establishing incentives for those who wish to stay in work beyond the retirement age, in the form of part-time work and partial retirement.
Shielding the disability pension system, in order to eliminate the phenomenon of disability pensions completely in the future
Streamlining of i professions.
Permanent mechanism of the financially secure
Convergence of 5 pensions with the m
A society of solidarity and cohesion
Large Infrastructure Projects
A better life for all Greeks
Our government priorities
For New Democracy and Kostas Karamanlis, the new, better Greece is not made with words but with deeds.
And the New Government has only works to show.
Projects that citizens have been waiting for for twenty years.
Everything always has as its main and final beneficiary the Greek man and woman.
To enhance our security, to improve our lives and our daily lives, to create better conditions for our children's future.
What we received in 2004
In March 2004 we took over a "sinful", inefficient and wasteful system of public works production.
An institutional framework that had been abolished in practice by the European Union and the Greek Justice, with the result that all public works have been stopped since April 2003.
Worse still, there was no programme and studies for the production of new projects.
In addition, many Olympic projects were incomplete and delayed.
Nevertheless, we have proceeded with plan and determination to implement our programme. We have set clear and unambiguous objectives:
To reform the institutional framework for the production of public works.
To execute as many projects as possible, all over the country, with total transparency, high quality, at the lowest possible price and in a short time.
We have worked hard to achieve these goals. And the results of our efforts can be seen by all today.
policies make Greece better
Over the last 3.5 years, by implementing the largest ever public works programme in the country, we are changing the image of Greece.
With projects that citizens have been waiting for decades, we are creating infrastructure for growth and a better quality of life everywhere.
And especially in the Greek Region.
We completed all the delayed and unfinished Olympic projects in a timely and complete manner.
We have reformed the institutional framework for Public Works and imposed a transparent and transparent system.
We achieved an annual tendering rate more than 5 times higher than in the 10-year period 1994-2003.
We are implementing the largest public works programme in the country's history, with a budget of €17.6 billion.
80% of the projects are carried out in the Region.
We are implementing 302 new Public Works across Greece, with a budget of €9 billion.
The "Development Roads" concession contracts with a budget of €8.6 billion are progressing rapidly: Thessaloniki Submarine Artery, Ionian Road, Eastern Peloponnese Road (Corinth - Tripoli - Kalamata and Lefktro - Sparta), Maliacos Raches - Kleidi Imathia, Central Greece Road Axis
(E-65), Peloponnese Regional Road (Corinth - Patras - Pyrgos - Tsakonas), Attica Road Projects, Maliacos Horseshoe.
The Egnatia Road is moving faster.
We have already delivered 197 new kilometres and we have designed, tendered and are constructing, with 46 new construction sites, another 365 new kilometres.
So the East-West axis and the main vertical axes will be completed in 2008, as we had committed ourselves to.
We are building modern national motorways and radically upgrading the rest of the national road network.
The Athens Metro is doubling in size.
We have already delivered 7 stations and 12.7 km of line.
We are building 10 new stations and 8.5 km of line to Elliniko, Haidari and Peristeri.
The Thessaloniki Metro finally becomes a reality, with 13 stations and 9 km of line.
We are upgrading ports and airports, building dams and other important infrastructure projects across the country.
We are preparing the next generation of projects for the 2007-2013 programming period. 80% of the projects will be carried out in the Region.
Our government priorities
Over the next four years we will continue to implement our programme at an intensive pace, with the aim of completing all the projects currently underway within the planned timeframes.
Among other things, we are planning:
Construction of the "Development Roads" with concessions with a budget of €8.6 billion: Ionian Road, Central Greece E-65, Corinth - Tripoli - Kalamata - Sparta, Corinth - Patras - Pyrgos - Tsakonas, Maliakos - Tempi - Platamonas, Thessaloniki Submarine Artery.
Completion of the Egnatia Motorway and its major axes in 2008.
Tendering and construction, with concession contract, of the extensions of the Attiki Odos (New Road Projects of Attica).
Completion of the extensions of the Athens Metro to Elliniko - Haidari and Anthoupoli and the three stations in Cholargos, Nomismatokopio and Agia Paraskevi.
Construction of the METRO extension from Haidari to Piraeus.
Completion of the studies and tendering of the new Metro Line V from Vekkos Park to Maroussi, 20 km long.
Study of new extensions to areas not currently covered by METRO;
5. Completion of the Thessaloniki Metro which is under construction.
Tender and start of construction of the Metro extension to Kalamaria.
Study of the extensions to Stavroupoli, Airport and Kordelio.
6. Completion of the projects in the "killer horseshoe" of the Malakos river.
the strategic planning for the 2007 - 2013 programming period, we are preparing the next generation of new Public Works.
We are planning to design, tender and build new public works worth €8 billion. 80% of these projects will be in the Region.
Indicatively listed are:
Central Macedonia: Thessaloniki External Regional Road, Motorway Kleidi - Polykastro - Euzoni, National Roads Thessaloniki - Edessa, Egnatia - Polygyros, Egnatia - Thermi - Galatista, etc.
Eastern and Western Macedonia: Expansion of Kavala Port, vertical axis of the Egnatia Highway, Siatista - Ieropigi - Krystalopigi, etc.
Central Greece: Improvement of the Lamia - Itea - Antirrio road axis, upgrading of the Agrinio - Karpenisi road axis, northern road axis of Evia Chalkida - Pascha - Istiaia - Edipsos, etc.
Western Greece: Third section of the new Port of Patras, connection of the city of Preveza with the Ionian Road, connection of the city of Lefkada with the road axis of Aktion - Amvrakea, etc.
Epirus: 3rd phase of the new port of Igoumenitsa, upgrading of the road axes Preveza - Filippiada, Igoumenitsa - Preveza, Aktio - Amvrakea, extension of the Ionian Road from Egnatia to Kakavia, improvement of the National Road Arta - Trikala, etc.
Thessaly: Connection of Velestinou with the PATHE motorway and the city of Volos, upgrading of the National Roads of Larissa - Kozani, Trikala - Arta, Larissa - Farsala, expansion of Skiathos Airport, etc.
Peloponnese: Road Axes Tripoli - Vytina - Ancient Olympia, Filiatra - Pylos - Kalamata, Sparta - Gythio, Nemea - Nafplio, etc.
Crete: Upgrading of the northern road axis of Crete, completion of the southern road axis of Agia Varvara - Agioi Deca - Vianos - Ierapetra - Pachia Ammos, upgrading of Heraklion Airport facilities, expansion of buildings, other facilities and security systems of Chania Airport, etc.
Ionian Islands: Upgrading of Corfu and Kefalonia Airports, installation of security and automatic control systems at Zakynthos Airport, etc.
Attica: Markopoulou bypass and the Stavros - Lavrion side road network, completion of Thevon Avenue, consolidation of areas in the area of the PAO Stadium with undergrounding and covering part of Alexandra Avenue, completion of external works and additional piers at the Port of Lavrion, extension of the Markopoulou - Lavrio expressway to Sounion with a bypass of Lavrio, construction of Kimi Avenue from Attiki Odos to National Road, upgrading - improvements of Kifissos Avenue in the section from Three Bridges to Attiki Odos, Elefsina - Thebes - Yliki motorway, etc.etc.
Island Regions: new road axis connecting the city of Rhodes to the Airport, bypass of Rhodes city, road and port works in the South Aegean islands, upgrading of facilities and security systems at Kos, Rhodes and Mykonos Airports, etc.
A better life for all Greeks
For our young people
Investing in our young people for a better
Our government priorities
The young people of Greece are the driving force for the future of the country.
The young generation is the reference point and the final recipient of our reform policy.
We are investing in its capabilities, visions and goals to become our country's comparative advantage in the new era.
Spending on public education increased by 37%: from €5.3 billion to €7.3 billion.
More than 50,000 free computers were given to schools, outstanding pupils and students.
Under the "See it digitally" action, 12,584 first-year students, who were admitted to the 2006 entrance exams, are being subsidised to acquire personal laptops.
Through the "Diode" action, 30,000 students are subsidised for cheap ADSL internet access.
The Education Reform strengthens the Public University and ensures that young people have degrees that are valuable in the labour market.
The autonomy and democratic operation of Greek universities is strengthened, at the expense of partisanship.
The new law on Higher Education introduced scholarships and interest-free student loans for the financially weaker students.
The procedures for the recognition of degrees obtained in foreign countries are simplified and accelerated, with the re-establishment of the Interdisciplinary Academic and Information Recognition Organisation.
The Vocational Education Act provides thousands of young secondary school graduates with an equivalent high school diploma and access to the full range of higher education.
Higher Technological Education was upgraded, with the improvement of the academic characteristics of TEIs and the establishment of professional rights in specific specialisations.
The development of joint Postgraduate Studies Programmes between Greek and foreign Universities is promoted.
The link between Initial and Continuing Vocational Education and Training is being implemented, creating a unified and modern system for the provision of vocational qualifications.
More than 200,000 unemployed people, the majority of them young people and women, benefited from the employment programmes of the OAED.
121 networked employment structures of the OAED were created throughout Greece, providing standard personalised counselling and job placement services.
1,000 new service points for the unemployed are created through the networking of the OAED with the KEPs in every municipality of the country.
Environment and quality of life
A better life for all Greeks
Our government priorities
Protecting the environment has been our central policy choice from the beginning.
We have worked systematically to address the unfinished business of the past and to implement meaningful policies for sustainable and sustainable development.
Growth that meets the needs of the present without undermining the future and endangering the generations to come.
Protecting the environment is now a matter of life and death for everyone.
It is a commitment to every citizen of our country.
It is a debt to our children.
What we received in 2004
In March 2004, we were called upon to deal with a deadlock on environmental issues.
Greece has been the "black sheep" of Europe when it comes to the environment, with a series of convictions and pending cases before the European Commission and the European Court of Justice.
PASOK had left the country without national spatial planning and without specific spatial frameworks.
Without, that is, the necessary tool for rational and sustainable development and environmental protection.
As for the National Cadastre, few people believed that the project would be carried out.
make policies
Greece better
In three and a half years, a major effort has been made for the environment.
We have worked systematically to close all the major backlogs we have received and have taken systematic actions to protect the environment and promote sustainable development.
The National Spatial Plan and the Special Spatial Plans for Tourism, Industry and Renewable Energy Sources were presented.
While the plans for the Mountain and Coastal Area follow.
Of the 52 "open" cases pending against Greece at the European Commission, which we took over in 2004, we have finally closed 24.
And all the necessary steps have been taken to close the remaining 28 cases one by one.
During our government there has not been a single conviction on the environment.
We have incorporated into Greek legislation 28 Community directives on the environment, many of which should have been incorporated by 2002.
We have established and demarcated 10 new Protected Areas throughout the country, and we are institutionally and financially shielding the management bodies of all protected areas.
We have created 8 new alternative waste management systems and today a total of 10 are operating across the country.
Now everything can be recycled in Greece.
The percentage of waste recycled has more than tripled compared to 2004.
We have studied, planned and assisted the Regions and local authorities to close illegal landfills.
1,850 illegal landfills have been closed and are being rehabilitated throughout Greece.
The first National Pollutant Allocation Plan to reduce greenhouse gas emissions is implemented.
The 2nd plan for the period 2008-2012 is already ready, with even stricter conditions.
We have intensified our environmental controls.
To date, 400 checks have been carried out and €8 million in fines have been imposed for more than 200 infringements.
The National Cadastre is moving faster and on a new basis: 7 million acres have been cadastrally registered since 2004.
By 2010, the National Cadastre will cover 2/3 of the country's population.
We are planning projects and actions amounting to 4.3 billion euros for the Environment, from the NSRF 2007-2013, and
major urban renewal projects are progressing, such as the Elliniko Metropolitan Park, Botanikos - Alexandra Avenue, etc.
Priorities
Today, in the environment, Greece has made significant steps forward.
But much remains to be done and the effort continues, more intensively than ever.
For the new four-year period, we plan, among other things, to:Complete the process of institutionalising the National Spatial Plan and the Special Spatial Plans for Renewable Energy Sources, Tourism and Industry, which have been prepared and their consultation has already been completed.
Revision of the Regional Spatial Plans, in accordance with the guidelines of the General and Specific Spatial Frameworks.
Completion of the new generation of cadastres in 107 municipalities, including all the municipalities of Attica and Thessaloniki, as well as the municipalities of the capital cities of the prefectures.
Establishment of the new way of issuing building permits.
Reform and codification of planning legislation.
Revision of the Athens Regulatory Plan.
Strengthening - Promotion of traditional settlements throughout the country.
Codification of Environmental Legislation and its strict implementation with enhanced actions by environmental inspectors.
Preparation of a National Biodiversity Strategy and measures to meet the requirements of Directive 92/43 on the conservation of natural habitats and wild flora and fauna
Integrated approach to the issue of protected areas.
(Completion of Special Environmental Assessments, institutionalisation of the sites, simplification of procedures, securing funding, plan for the integration of bodies, etc.)
Better organisation of the management bodies and the allocation of €180 million from the 4th programming period.
Measures to tackle climate change through energy saving actions and projects.
Implementation of the Special Spatial Plan for Renewable Energy Sources in order to rapidly promote the production of green energy from 11% today to 20% in 2012 and about 30% in 2030.
Financing of "green transport" projects (e.g. Thessaloniki Metro).
Application of district heating technologies (e.g. Florina, Ptolemaida).
Promotion of waste recycling and environmental awareness of the public on this issue
Creation of a National Recycling Agency
Completion of river basin management plans throughout the country in accordance with Directive 2000/60 and Law 3199/2003.
Protect and sustainably manage water resources through the construction of Waste Water Treatment Plants (WWTPs) and sewerage networks in the municipalities of the country.
Construction of water resources utilization projects (dams, reservoirs, water transport pipelines, etc.) in island - tourist areas (Halkidiki, Corfu, Aegean Islands, etc.).
Projects to deal with natural disasters (e.g. flood protection in Attica and Thessaloniki).
Soil Systems Protection with remediation projects - Solid Waste Management with construction of landfills, landfill construction, mechanical sorting and composting facilities etc.
Implementation of environmental restoration projects in polluted areas (e.g. Zidani of Western Macedonia, areas of military installations, etc.).
Implementation of the Metropolitan Park in Elliniko.
A better life for all Greeks
Education
Greek Education for International Recognition
Our government priorities
In March 2004, we took office with a commitment to implement a comprehensive reform of education.
Our aim was and is a modern education system.
Geared to the needs of our time and capable of supporting the future of young people
What we received in 2004
In almost 20 years of PASOK's rule, our country's education system has been driven into a deep and multifaceted crisis.
We have received a situation where:
the Lyceum had become a testing ground, completely losing its autonomous educational role.
The national examinations in the upper secondary school and the excessive number of subjects to be examined in the lower secondary school caused stress among pupils.
They led to a steep increase in the number of children and depleted the family's finances.
The Vocational Education and Training system was in practice cancelled, with VET and VET colleges unable to offer reliable and accredited studies.
The Greek University was constantly moving away from the modern European academic reality, providing degrees of diminished value for the future and the careers of its graduates.
15 policies that make Greece better
We have moved forward in implementing our policy, with determination but also with faith in dialogue and consensus.
We have taken the first steps and laid the foundations for strengthening quality at all levels of education.
Spending on public education increased by 37%: from €5.3 billion to €7.3 billion.
The examinations for the second grade were abolished and the number of subjects to be examined in the third grade was reduced from 9 to 6.
The ratio of pupils per teacher has decreased. From 30 to 25 to 1 in lower secondary education and from 35 to 30 to 1 in upper secondary education.
The evaluation of teachers and trainees at all levels is progressing.
650 new all-day schools were created.
4,068 new classrooms and 31 gymnasiums were built.
More than 50,000 free computers were given to schools, outstanding pupils and students.
30,000 students are subsidised for cheap and fast internet.
The teaching of a second foreign language was established at the primary school level.
Established basis for admission to A.E.I. and T.E.I.
Infrastructure for lifelong learning increased by 1,664% compared to the previous four years.
The professional rights of their TEI graduates in various specialisations have been secured.
The Education Reform strengthens the Public University. It ensures our young people have degrees that are valuable in the labour market.
The Law on Vocational Education provides thousands of young secondary school graduates with an equivalent high school diploma and access to the full range of higher education.
A new, modern and effective institutional framework for the development of research is established.
Our governmental
Priorities
The substantial upgrading of Public Education is one of the greatest challenges for modern Greece and a key pillar of our policy for the coming years.
We are continuing to implement our programme consistently, putting in place an immediate
Increase public spending on education. Direct 14% of the resources of the Strategic Framework 2007-2013 to education.
Our strategic objective is a total overhaul of the education system, at all three levels and in pre-school education
We are continuing and completing the Education Reform.
We are finalising the arrangements for the implementation of the Law on the institutional framework of the HEIs.
Proceed with the implementation of the new institutional framework for Research and Technology
Complete the consultation and promote the draft law on postgraduate studies.
We are continuing our school building upgrade programmes.
We continue to strengthen teacher training programmes.
We evaluate all new textbooks during the teaching process.
We seek the qualitative upgrading of education, the
renaissance of the Public University,
the strengthening of the autonomy of the Lyceum,
the establishment, in the long term, of a new system of admission to Higher and Higher Education.
We are giving new momentum to the Strategy for Digital Greece.
We are putting even more emphasis on Research and New Technologies, with the new Research and Innovation Framework.
We have already started to create Research Centres and Innovation Poles in the Greek Region.
At the same time, we are continuing the dialogue and public consultation to take our reform agenda further.
We are planning the next steps of educational reform, on solid foundations and with the consensus of Greek society.
We want an education system that produces and transmits high quality knowledge.
To provide every young person in our country with the tools to realise their dreams.
This is our vision for the Greek Education of the future.
This is our commitment to every Greek family, to the generation of today and to those that will follow.
Greek Education for International Recognition
"Friends,
Since March 2004, we have been taking massive and steady steps.
∆We are resolving uncertainties, achieving results in important areas, setting priorities for today and tomorrow.
We have started the changes and reforms that are needed in the State, in the economy, in health, in education.
Changes and reforms that deliver benefits for all citizens.
We are implementing policies that ensure conditions of stability, strong growth and prosperity for all.
Policies that solve everyday problems, that provide for the present and the future of each family.
In the three and a half years that have passed, a lot has happened.
But we have much more to do.
In particular, in order to fully consolidate public finances and consolidate the dynamic growth we have achieved.
But above all, to give new momentum, new speed, to the transition to a truly effective State.
A state that is essentially a social state, which stands by those who need it most.
We continue with targeted policies and intensive efforts.
Our will is strong, our principles and values are firm.
We are all moving forward together.
All Greeks together. "
Costas Karamanlis
Prime Minister of Greece
President of the New Republic
Small and medium-sized enterprises
More jobs, higher incomes, better life
Our government priorities
Supporting Small and Medium-sized Enterprises is one of our key policy priorities, with the aim of realising their potential for growth and employment.
What we received in 2004
Until 2004, SMEs were facing a number of significant problems, which not only hindered their growth, but often also their very survival.
They were the victims of the tax raids and the economic bleeding imposed on them by the PASOK governments.
Measures such as the "objective" criteria, the numerous "settlements" of tax arrears, the "relevance" and terrorism of the SIAOE and the harsh penalties, had led many Small and Medium Enterprises to decline or even cease operations.
In addition, small and medium-sized commercial enterprises were excluded from the Development Law and the Third CSF.
8 policies that make Greece better
Since March 2004, we have taken significant steps forward and have achieved the first positive results.
Today, every citizen who wants to set up their own business has lower tax rates and simplified procedures.
It is supported by the new Investment Law and funded to a greater extent by Community programmes.
Small and medium-sized enterprises can make use of new programmes to finance their projects, to support them in employing the unemployed and to adopt new technologies.
We have reduced taxes for businesses, by up to 10 percentage points.
We have increased the aid rate for Small and Medium Enterprises under the new Investment Law, which finances up to 60% of the investment.
Resources to support investment projects of enterprises - the majority of which are Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs) - have been reinforced: from €571 million to €2.5 billion in 2007. This means that resources more than quadrupled.
For the first time, Community funds are being used to finance Small and Medium-sized Enterprises and Service Enterprises.
80,000 SMEs have been supported by the Competitiveness and Information Society Operational Programmes and the Small and Micro Enterprises Guarantee Fund (SEMME).
Part-time employment was subsidised in 18,000 micro-enterprises.
A National Plan is being implemented, with 49 + 1 measures to support Small and Medium Enterprises.
We increased the absorption of ERDF funds from 14.7% in March 2004 to 68.4% in June 2007, having disbursed more than €2 billion for infrastructure and business support projects.
Our government priorities
We continue to pursue our policy consistently and with faith in the potential of Small and Medium Enterprises.
Our aim remains to provide them with a fertile environment, with incentives and encouragement, so that they can become more competitive and go forward with more confidence.
Among other things, we plan:
The implementation of a series of actions to support Small and Medium Enterprises, under the new Operational Programme "Competitiveness and Entrepreneurship" for the period 2007 - 2013.
Actions focused mainly on groups and networks of enterprises, as well as on cooperation between productive bodies and research and technology bodies.
Actions to transform knowledge into innovative products, processes and services.
They concern the transfer of technology and know-how to SMEs and the closing of the gap between technological knowledge and the market.
Actions aimed at cooperation between enterprises in the form of networks. Emphasis is placed on small and medium-sized enterprises.
Actions to facilitate access to services for small and medium-sized enterprises.
Support for business projects to set up, modernise and expand operations using modern financial instruments such as:
guarantees, equity, etc.
venture capital funds
Business angels - private equity and investment monitoring instruments
micro-credit (micro-loans to cover current needs, granted without guarantees).
Extension of the guarantee for lending to small and micro enterprises through the Small and Micro Enterprises Guarantee Fund (SME Guarantee Fund).
Strengthening integrated business plans to support investments that contribute to improving the competitiveness and extroversion of enterprises.
This action aims to contribute, among other things, to: strengthening the presence of Greek enterprises in domestic and international markets;
developing permanent cooperation between Greek and international enterprises
in the standardisation and certification of products and services, through the adoption of internationally recognised quality standards;
integrating the environmental dimension in the operation of enterprises.
Actions to support tourism investments through the Development Law, as well as special programmes to support enterprises in the tourism sector not covered by the Development Law.
Design and implement a new quality policy and reorganise the market control and surveillance system.
Reform the institutional framework for professions and introduce professional certification.
Creation of Business Service Centres for licensing issues at the Development and Trade Directorates of the Prefectural Authorities.
Complete and extend the overhaul of the business licensing system beyond manufacturing to commercial enterprises.
Implement the long-term programme to modernise 32 existing Industrial and Business Areas and create 20 new ones throughout the country.
Implementation of the General Commercial Register (GEMI).
Development of Organic Markets.
Create a mechanism for systematic analysis of trade and commercial enterprises through the National Trade Observatory.
Special Development Programme for the islands, on the same basis as the Pindos programme for mountainous Greece.
Preparation of a Development Programme study for the islands of Chios, Samos and Ikaria and implementation of a special development programme in declining and disadvantaged areas, mountainous and island areas, with priority for the islands of Gavdos and Psara.
More jobs, higher incomes, better life
Health
Modern health services. Options for all
Our government priorities
Protecting health is a primary social responsibility.
Our policy objective was and is a Health System that provides and guarantees all citizens high quality services.
What we received in 2004
In March 2004 we received an unreliable and ineffective Health System.
The "National Health System", twenty years after its creation, had failed to provide Greek citizens with the health services they need and deserve.
The hospitals were the victims of mismanagement, sinking under the weight of deficits
Citizens were inconvenienced in outpatient clinics in the early morning hours and on call days for the general public.
There was a tragic lack of infrastructure, both in primary and secondary education.
Outdated machinery, poor maintenance and insufficient use of technology.
Many hospitals in the Region were totally inadequate to deal with cases of patients with serious problems,
The ambulance system of the EHIC was facing many and significant problems, resulting in a cost in terms of human lives.
Huge staff shortages.
Inconvenience, long waiting lists and lack of basic specialties in primary care.
The concepts of quality control and certification - necessary for a Health System to function effectively - were unknown.
Our government priorities
We are continuing our policy of health care reform with consistency and determination.
We invest in quality, in providing more choice and in avoiding waste.
Our main priorities are:
Ensuring the right to free choice of doctor and ensuring easy access to all levels and functions of the system.
Eliminating inequalities between the centre and the region in the provision of health services.
The implementation of evaluation, quality control and certification systems for the Health System and each individual facility.
Further strengthening infrastructure and accelerating the use of new technologies.
Strengthening structures and actions for social solidarity.
In this context, among other things, we are planning:
The implementation of the new legislative framework for Primary Care.
In this context, the creation of a network of services for citizens, with free choice of doctor, expansion and strengthening of urban health centres is envisaged.
The construction of new hospitals throughout Greece (Oncology and Paediatrics in Thessaloniki, Preveza, Kos), through the Public-Private Partnerships, as well as the creation of 1,100 additional beds.
The construction of a Rehabilitation - Rehabilitation - Therapy Centre in Aeginio Pieria.
The creation of 35 new Health Centres across the country.
The recruitment, by 2009, of an additional 4 500 doctors (specialists and residents).
The acquisition of 110 ambulances to meet the needs of hospitals.
The establishment of a municipal primary care network, in cooperation with the Municipality of Athens.
Complete the necessary arrangements to bring the employment relations of medical and nursing staff into line with the acquis.
The promotion of the administrative autonomy of the country's public hospitals, so that they can become productive units with innovative and quality services.
The implementation of the National Programme "Social Cohesion and Solidarity" for the period 2007-2013, with the aim of promoting the economic and social inclusion of the least favoured groups and ensuring a decent living. The programme will be integrated into the new Social Cohesion Fund we are creating.
The promotion of the National Action Plan for the Rights of the Child, with the aim of creating, for the first time in our country, a Charter of the Rights of the Child.
The integration of drug treatment units into the NHS, in the context of the implementation of the new National Strategy against Drugs.
The strengthening of the institution of transplantation, with the creation of an international transplant centre based in Athens and Thessaloniki.
The organization and utilization of the social voluntary movement in the field of health and social solidarity, through the establishment of the "Volunteer Society" Organization.
We continue to work boldly and responsibly to create a modern and safe Health System that is fit for the demands of the 21st century.
Modern health services. Options for all
10 policies that make Greece better
We have designed and are implementing a comprehensive framework of health care reforms.
Our policy aims to meet the needs of all citizens, using the resources available for health in a transparent and efficient way.
We implemented €58 million in projects for the construction of Regional Clinics and Health Centres across Greece.
Specifically, we are tendering for 35 Regional Clinics throughout Greece, while the construction of regional clinics in sensitive island regions is being completed.
We are building new hospitals and upgrading existing ones.
We are delivering 2,503 new beds and 295,000 m² of state-of-the-art hospital facilities.
Ranches were reduced by 95%, with the system of alternating daily on-call duty.
Strengthen the health workforce.
In 2007, a total of 11,900 people will be recruited, including medical, nursing and paramedical staff.
We are reinforcing the ESAB with 760 new staff, 200 new ambulances and 20 new mobile units.
We are creating new sectors of the EHIC throughout Greece.
We are implementing a new medicines policy, giving access to the latest pharmaceutical treatments for all citizens.
We are implementing a new procurement system in the health sector.
We enhance transparency and achieve savings of up to €500 million per year.
We have put in place the institutional framework for the operation of hospices for cancer patients and facilitate the establishment of chronic dialysis units.
We are setting up a special television station for people with disabilities, offering the necessary decoders free of charge.
We have drafted the draft law on the disability card, which will save resources and provide much needed support to those who are genuinely entitled to it.
Woman
The Greek woman conquers
the place it deserves
The demands of the modern Greek woman are identical with the main objectives of our policy.
They concern everyday life, development, social cohesion, social solidarity.
They are a decisive factor in the improvement, development and success of economic and social life.
25 policies that make Greece better
Since March 2004, we have put in place a comprehensive set of policies and actions aimed at the effective support of women.
We promote their equal and active participation in employment, social life and public life.
Recognizing its fundamental role in the Greek family, we aim to take actions that meet its needs and respond to its concerns and worries.
At the same time, we promote equality between the sexes as a basic prerequisite for social progress and the development of our country.
Project implementation: "Integrated interventions for women", which benefited a total of 9.018 women throughout the country between 2004 and 2006.
Furthermore, (up to 30/06/2007): 7.199 unemployed women benefited from Counselling services, 4.324 unemployed women were promoted to employment through the OAED, 555 working women benefited from counselling activities, 814 women benefited from training programmes to improve their skills.
5,342 unemployed women were promoted into employment through the creation of 2,074 new jobs, 2,074 new freelancers were supported and 1,194 unemployed women gained work experience.
Strengthening entrepreneurship for mothers with minor children or women caring for disabled people, where facilities are provided through the possibility to declare their home as the place of business and justify relevant expenses (1/3 of operating costs, day-care costs, etc.).
Programme of positive actions in favour of women in SMEs & Large Enterprises, where facilities are provided for women employees so that they can claim their development in the company on better terms.
2,189 women benefited and about 20,000 women are expected to benefit in total.
Operation of the National Commission for Equality between Women and Men, as a permanent platform for social dialogue (Law 3491/2006).
The operation of 369 social care structures (crèches and nurseries, creative activity centres for children, social care units) is subsidised, with the aim of reconciling women's work and family life.
650 new all-day schools were created and the opening hours of all-day classes in primary schools were extended to make it easier for working mothers.
All the aids for large families were extended to families with three children.
In 2008, they will also receive the luxe benefit.
All mothers with many children will no longer pay tax on the allowance they receive from the state.
As of 1/1/2006, a one-time benefit of 2,000 euros per child from the third child onwards (Law 3454/2005).
For the first time, a legislative framework on domestic violence has been developed (Law 3500/2005),
while new legislative measures have been introduced to protect women's rights against all forms of violence.
A new law was adopted to promote equal treatment of men and women in access to employment and occupation (Law 3488/2006).
This law addresses sexual harassment as gender discrimination in the workplace for the first time.
Parental leave is also granted to the father.
The father of a civil servant is also entitled to reduced working hours or nine months' parental leave, provided that the mother does not take advantage of it.
The same right is also granted to the sole parent of single-parent families (New Civil Service Code - Law 3528/2007).
Facilities for the mother of a civil servant who adopts a child, in order to make a smooth transition to her new family life.
For the third child or more, it is envisaged that civil servants will be granted three months' parental leave with full pay.
Leave may be granted to bring up a child up to the age of six.
For the first time, the first three months of parental leave for parents with multiple children (after the third child) are paid.
For each child beyond the third, the postnatal leave is increased by two more months.
Further extension of the reduced working hours facility for two more years in the event of the birth of a fourth child.
Exemption from passenger car registration tax for parents or a parent with three minor or dependent children.
Coverage of 20% of the advertised posts of staff in the categories PE, TE and DE by large families and children of large families and one of the parents of families with three children or one of the three children, if any.
Obligation for companies operating in Greece, Greek or foreign, as well as their subsidiaries, if they employ more than 50 people, to employ large families and children of large families and one of the parents of families with three children or one of the three children, at a rate of 8% of the total number of staff of the company.
An integrated National Action Plan against trafficking in human beings, ensuring the provision of assistance to victims of trafficking through Counselling Centres and the possibility of integrating women victims of trafficking into Employment Programmes.
Completion of the "Education - Social Exclusion - Prostitution - Migration" programme to address the problem of social exclusion of women.
Provision was made for the provision of counselling support for victims of domestic violence and violence between cohabitants as a new responsibility of the first degree local authorities (Law 3463/2006).
For the first time, the granting of residence and work permits to victims of trafficking in human beings is facilitated, and provision is made for minor victims in order to identify their families more quickly (Law 3386/2005).
Administrative dismissal of a pregnant woman during pregnancy and for six months after childbirth is prohibited.
The Greek woman takes the position she deserves
Employment
More jobs, higher incomes, better life
Our government priorities
Since March 2004, we have been implementing a comprehensive and proactive policy for employment and tackling unemployment.
Our action is based on three main pillars. First, growing the economy and entrepreneurship, increasing productive investment and providing incentives to create more and better jobs.
Second, the implementation of targeted interventions and actions to tackle unemployment, especially among vulnerable groups of the population, such as women and young people.
Thirdly, to equip human resources with the necessary knowledge and skills so that they can better respond to modern needs and labour market opportunities.
What we received in 2004
In the first quarter of 2004, unemployment reached 11.4%, one of the highest rates in Europe.
The employment rate of our country's population was only 56.7%.
More than half of the unemployed had been looking for a job for more than 12 months.
1 in 4 young people were unemployed.
1 in 3 women were unemployed.
8 policies that make Greece better
In March 2004 we committed ourselves to reducing unemployment by 3 percentage points in the first four years.
In just 3.5 years, together with the citizens, we have taken steps forward.
The first results of our policy are already visible and show that our efforts are moving in the right direction.
Unemployment fell from 11.3% in the first quarter of 2004 to 7.7% in May 2007.
More than 200,000 new jobs were created.
More than 300,000 workers and self-employed persons were trained with resources from the LAKEK (Account for Employment and Vocational Training) - OAED.
Unemployment benefit was increased by 30% and since 2008 it reaches 404 euros per month, i.e. 1,255 euros more per year for each unemployed person.
The family allowance of the OAED increased by 40%.
More than 200,000 unemployed people (especially women, young people, people over 45 years old, vulnerable groups, etc.) benefited from the OAED's employment programmes.
121 networked employment structures of the OAED were created throughout Greece, providing standard personalised counselling and job placement services.
1,000 new service points for the unemployed are created through the networking of the OAED with the KEPs in every municipality of the country.
More than 200,000 new jobs were created.
Our government priorities
Our actions so far to boost employment have been targeted and effective.
However, much more needs to be done to get closer to our goal.
Our priorities, among others, are:
1. The effective implementation and achievement of the objectives of the new Operational Programme for the Development of Human Resources 2007 - 2013.
This programme is funded to the tune of €3.1 billion from Community and national resources.
The objectives of the new programme are, among others: to increase the participation rate of adults in training activities from the current 1.8% to 8%.
Increasing the participation rate of employees in training activities from 0.8 today to 7%.
Increasing the share of long-term unemployed and unemployed from vulnerable groups benefiting from active employment policies.
The development and implementation of an Integrated System for the identification of labour market needs.
0 redefining the system of continuing vocational training provision, based on the certification of knowledge and skills.
Effective support for young unemployed people.
From 2008, every young person up to 25 years old who has left school and is unemployed will be offered, within six months, opportunities for employment, apprenticeships, additional training or work experience.
By 2010, this deadline should be reduced to four months.
Strengthening employee training programmes, in the context of lifelong learning.
Workers in the professional sector will be supported, through specific programmes, to acquire knowledge and skills relevant to the needs of the company they work for.
Particular emphasis will be placed on the participation of SMEs, which until now have been lagging behind in lifelong learning.
The effective facilitation of female employment.
The operation of a childcare system for infants, toddlers and children is planned.
In this way, women are supported so that they can find or keep their jobs.
The development of integrated actions on education and employment issues, such as lifelong learning.
-Already, on the initiative of the Ministries of Education and Employment, the law has been activated and dialogue with the Social Partners has started.
Through cooperation, targeted actions are planned:
Exploring the real needs of the labour market.
Linking initial education and continuing training to the needs of the labour market.
The development of job descriptions, which will identify the qualifications, knowledge and skills that a person should have in order to pursue a particular profession.
The development of education and training programmes leading to the acquisition of the above knowledge and skills.
The certification of persons trained and qualified in the above knowledge.
Our strategic choice continues to be to build a competitive and dynamic economy, capable of sustaining growth and giving every citizen the opportunity to participate equally and creatively in the productive process.
We continue to shape a fertile economic environment, with conditions that allow and encourage the creation of new jobs and investment in human resources in general.
We emphasise initiatives and policies that promote knowledge and innovation.
At the same time, we seek to create an effective welfare state to mitigate the effects of temporary unemployment.
Our goal was and remains a productive and cohesive Greece, with more opportunities for all.
So that every "Greek can earn a better life with their merit.
To progress, create and contribute to the development of our economy and society.
New Technologies
Leap in Development and Quality of Life
Our government priorities
Information and communication technologies are the main lever for raising the living standards of citizens.
They provide possibilities that we have never seen before for the modernisation of our society.
The vision and political priority for the New Democracy is the creation of a human-centred Information Society that promotes economic growth and is addressed to all citizens of the country.
What we received in 2004
In March 2004, our country was the EU leader in terms of the integration and diffusion of information and communication technologies in society.
Lack of infrastructure, high prices and fragmented planning have resulted in negative performance in all sub-sectors.
The percentage of Internet users in Greece was only 18%, one of the lowest in Europe, and the gap was widening.
In contrast to other European countries, where the frequency of Internet use was increasing rapidly, in our country it had fallen dramatically (the percentage of daily use had dropped from 34% to 19%).
The percentage of Internet usage for buying goods was 4%, while the European average is 20%.
The percentage of citizens who had communicated with the public administration via the Internet (e-government) in Greece was the lowest in the EU.
It reached 34%, while the European average was 49%.
The rate of Internet use for finding a job (e-employment) and for accessing health information (e-health) was almost non-existent.
Greece had the lowest share of computer jobs (0.25%) of all EU countries (EU average 1.5%).
It also showed the fastest growth in information and communication technology jobs.
Our country also had the lowest percentage of enterprises with Internet access of all EU countries (55% ).
Our government priorities
The use of new technologies remains a central priority and a key pillar of our policy for a modern, productive and cohesive Greece.
We are continuing to implement our strategy so that our country can make a digital leap forward in productivity, but also in the quality of life of our citizens.
We are using as a new financial instrument the "Digital Convergence" programme, which focuses on the technological development of the Region for the period up to 2013.
Around €2 billion from the support framework for the period 2007-2013 is directed to actions for the use of new information technologies and the Internet, as foreseen in the Digital Strategy.
We are further stimulating entrepreneurship with new and more financial instruments, such as the Digital Springboard Fund.
We are using the new framework for Public-Private Partnerships to finance value-added digital service projects, but also to boost investment in technology through the Investment Law.
We are making major interventions in critical areas that will allow us to accelerate the achievement of our objectives.
In this context, we are programming a total of 66 targeted actions, including:
The implementation of an integrated digital strategy for public administration.
The spearhead is the National Authentication System, to which all the individual digital systems developed by public bodies will be linked.
This system is structured in three, inextricably linked parts: A. the 'SYZEXIS' network. B. the "ERMIS" Central Network Gateway. C. the management of the digital certificates of the public sector.
The creation of a pilot business gateway with the cooperation of chambers of commerce to inform small businesses on sectoral issues, areas of business knowledge, highlighting successful examples, etc.
Co-financing the development of broadband infrastructure in the region.
The creation of a large electronic tourism portal, under the auspices of the Ministry of Tourism, for both citizens and businesses and tourist units.
The automation of the main steps for the start-up of chambers of commerce, as a first step towards the provision of e-services.
Improving the transparency and availability of information on business financing opportunities, in a single portal under the auspices of the Union of Greek Banks.
Strengthening the training of business executives in Information and Communication Technologies (ICT).
Consideration of financial incentives for transactions carried out electronically or via the Internet (e.g. refunds, VAT, etc.).
Complete the institutional framework for the development of e-procurement services in the Ministry of Development.
The creation of a single portal for businesses, which will include all available and under development services and available support, organized in categories of interest (services, information EOMMEX, support from OPs, etc. IKA, etc.).
The automation of tax audit procedures to ensure transparency during tax audits.
Providing the 5 most commonly used certificates and services for businesses, electronically.
The institutional safeguarding of the electronic signature compared to the printed - handwritten one.
The adaptation of university programmes to include entrepreneurship courses and ICT applications for business.
Informing new entrepreneurs about the procedures for starting and running a business through an online page.
The co-financing of the initial broadband connection fee in the region.
The definition of a legal framework for teleworking.
The pilot use of PC/internet in education as a support to the curriculum in non-computing subjects (e.g. geography, chemistry).
Funding innovative business plans for innovative business-to-citizen broadband services.
The preparation of a study (CC Observatory) to identify and implement the most useful e-services for people with disabilities.
The transfer of the 20 most frequently used services into a fully electronic format (university applications, transactions with tax authorities, customs, etc.).
The development of a single access point for e-government services (e-government portal).
The selection of critical e-health applications to be developed.
With consistency, planning and efficiency, we are putting our commitment to exploit new technologies into practice.
We are improving the efficiency of public administration, boosting business productivity and improving the daily quality of life of citizens.
Jump in Growth and Quality of Life policies make Greece better
Since March 2004 we have been implementing a coherent strategy to promote new technologies and strengthen the Information Society.
A strategy with a clear orientation and focus, with concrete actions, timetables and evaluation indicators.
The results of our policy so far are already visible, and the progress made is also recognised at EU level.
2With the Digital Strategy 2006 - 2013 we are making up for lost ground in the use of new technologies and creating an efficient state.
In 2006 Greece was the fastest growing country in the world in broadband, according to all international organisations.
ADSL connections have more than doubled in 3 years: from 0.1% of the population in 2004, they have now reached 7%, 18 months earlier than the initial target.
Broadband prices for citizens have fallen by more than 85% in the last 3.5 years, while access speeds have doubled.
The deployment of fibre optics in 75 cities and a €210 million plan to roll out high-speed internet in the country's periphery are promoted.
The absorption rate of the Information Society Programme has quintupled, from 11.4% in 2004 to 56% in 2006.
The number of eGovernment projects across the country has tripled. From 58 projects in 2004 to 187 in 2007.
These are projects with a budget of more than €890 million, covering all areas of public administration (health, economy, local government, national defence, etc.).
The National Network "Conjunction" was launched, which now covers 2,000 institutions and is the backbone of communication for the Public Administration.
The National Cadastre is operating on a pilot basis, as part of an integrated information system, while electronic interconnection is being promoted with the 156 addresses of the country's urban planning offices.
34As a result of these actions, Greece has significantly strengthened its position in the provision of digital services to citizens.
The "eGovernment Digital Integration" indicator improved from 44% in 2003 to 55% in 2006, with an EU15 average of 68%.
We have strengthened our position in the provision of digital services to businesses, improving our digital business services ratio from 67% to 73%.
50,000 free computers were given to schools, students and pupils.
Also, through the Diode programme, 30,000 students are being subsidised for cheap ADSL internet connections.
We use Hellas Sat's two satellite transmitters to provide satellite broadband connections to schools and public services in remote areas.
A new law on electronic communications has been adopted and a new framework has been created for the dynamic development of the market, with the aim of providing consumers with better quality and cheaper services.
Economy
A strong economy on solid foundations
Our government priorities
In 2004 we took over the country's government with a new vision for Greece in the 21st century.
A vision summarised in the triptych: Growth - Employment - Social Cohesion.
Over the past year, we have designed and implemented a comprehensive framework of reforms.
A programme aimed at fiscal consolidation and dynamic growth of the Greek economy, so that it can support the strengthening of social cohesion and the improvement of the lives of the economically weakest.
What we received T^ 2004
In 2004 we took over the management of an economy where:
The public debt was 110% and the budget deficit was six times higher than that of the bad managers of the past.
The competitiveness of our economy was in constant decline, stifling investment and exports, while unemployment had exceeded 11%.
Greece had become a champion in the EU in increasing the tax burden.
The tax burden had increased by about 8 percentage points of GDP in the last ten years of PASOK government (30.5% of GDP in 1993, 37.9% of GDP in 2000, 35.8% in 2003).
The prices of many basic goods and services have skyrocketed.
The rate of inflation was almost twice the EU average, which systematically undermined the already weak competitiveness of the Greek family and the incomes of Greeks.
11 policies that are making Greece a shithole
In just three and a half years, things have changed.
Together with citizens, we have worked hard and achieved important results.
The government deficit fell from 7.9% in 2004 to 2.6% of GDP in 2006.
We restored transparency and credibility to the country's fiscal data and took the Greek economy out of the EU's excessive deficit procedure.
0 Growth rate reached 4.4% and is among the highest in Europe.
Wages and pensions have risen above inflation.
Income per capita rose from 73.8% of the EU-15 average in 2003 to 82.3% in 2007.
We reduced direct taxation for all Greeks and raised the tax-free threshold from €10,000 to €12,000.
3.3 million Greeks no longer pay a single euro in direct taxes.
Another 2.5 million Greeks will pay less tax this year.
Exports have increased by 34% over the last three years.
Tourist arrivals increased from 12 million in 2004 to 17 million in 2007.
Investment has increased.
3,807 new investment projects worth €8.78 billion are implemented.
Projects and investments worth €3.1 billion have also been launched through the Public-Private Partnerships (PPPs).
0 Inflation fell to 2.5%, the lowest level in 8 years.
The absorption of FP3 funds increased by 40 percentage points.
We achieved one of the highest growth rates in Europe
Our government proposals
We are resolutely continuing on the path of reforms that we started, together with Greek society, three and a half years ago.
Our policy priorities are:
Consolidating fiscal consolidation by achieving balanced or slightly surplus budgets by 2010, as agreed for all euro area countries.
Reforming our pension system to make it fairer, more efficient and sustainable.
Tackling tax evasion and broadening the tax base so that all Greeks participate equally in the financing of the welfare state.
The 3rd phase of the Tax Reform with the first priority being the simplification of property taxation.
The expansion of Public-Private Partnerships in the development of transport infrastructure (ports, airports) and the welfare state, in order to provide more resources and greater social efficiency.
Further liberalising markets so that citizens can enjoy better products and services at better prices.
Further strengthening the extroversion of the economy with targeted actions to boost exports and our presence in foreign markets.
The further consolidation of our country as an economic and commercial centre of South-Eastern Europe and the Eastern Mediterranean.
The continuation of the major effort already underway to clean up the PPOs.
The effective use of Community funds through the NSRF 2007-2013.
Our aim is to make a leap in competitiveness and to give our country the infrastructure that was denied to it by the inefficient management of Community funds in the period 1994-2004.
The continuation and acceleration of the Digital Strategy 2006-2013 with the aim of closing the digital gap that separates us from Europe and that is due to the wrong choices made by the governments of yesterday.
The reform of the welfare state. "Much has already been done. We are continuing to create an effective welfare state that effectively supports those who need its care:
We have adopted the bill for the establishment of the National Fund for Social Cohesion and we are responding effectively, with targeted actions, to the problem of poverty that affects one in five households.
We establish the minimum National Pension, the amount of which exceeds the poverty line.
We are fully implementing our commitments for the three-parent families.
We are fully implementing our commitments for officers. As of 1 January 2008, the salary of a second lieutenant is EUR 860 per month plus next year's income policy.
We are moving forward with a clear focus, with a plan and with responsibility.
With faith in the creativity of the "Greek".
With the belief that Greece can achieve a lot more.
Together we are building the future that every citizen of this country deserves.
Our ambition was and is a dynamic and fast-growing economy, as this is the only way to strengthen social cohesion and to distribute the fruits of growth fairly to all.
A dynamic economy and a just society means a Greece with a strong international presence.
It means more opportunities and a better quality of life for all citizens.
