From the platform of the Thessaloniki International Fair, we want once again to address the people and stress that there can and must be a radical change of course, that there is a path of development that can satisfy social needs, that
the path of capitalist development, which leads broad layers of the people to continuous sacrifices, is not a one-way street.
This year's proclamations at the TIF, by former Prime Minister Al. Tsipras and other bourgeois parties, promise again "a development that will be a means to promote people's welfare",
a development shock and repeat the well-known tools and means that will supposedly ensure this goal:
The attraction of investment focused on innovation and the quality of the goods produced, the
use of public investment and large Community funding packages, the
acceleration of the restructuring that is lagging behind.
Read an old speech of Simitis and Karamanlis at the Thessaloniki International Conference and you will easily spot all the things that are served up as fresh ideas and a supposedly new model of productive reconstruction.
Remember how many billions of euros were injected into the country through the second and third CSF, through the NSRF, through the innovation support programmes.
Over €45 billion was channelled through the 3rd CSF, and over €40 billion through the NSRF 2007-2013.
Through these programmes, billions of euros have been channelled to boost innovation and promote new technologies.
However, in the end, what did the people gain from this funding?
Remember also the high growth rates, double those of the Eurozone until the onset of the deepest post-war crisis of 2008 in the Greek economy.
They can hardly fool the people now.
More and more people are realising that the path of development based on capitalist profit is not only incompatible with, but counter-productive to, the well-being of the people.
More and more people understand that as long as we go down this road, wage earners and the self-employed will suffer further losses both in the new crisis phase to recover the profits of the monopoly groups
and in the growth phase to increase their profits and improve their competitiveness.
There is no management policy and "model of capitalist development" that can lead to a capitalism without exploitation, poverty and unemployment,
without capital's demand for a gap between the increase in productivity and wages, without bleeding the workers dry.
That is why the anti-people's attack to support the profits of capital is not only directed against Greece, but against all the member states of the EU and the USA.
It concerns Britain and Denmark, which have a national currency.
For example, in the UK, since 2008, soup kitchens for the poor (food banks) have grown rapidly and only 5% of those fed there are homeless.
Also, in Denmark, the retirement age has been raised to 67 years, with the immediate prospect of reaching 68
, and the corresponding PPC has been privatised and tens of thousands of civil servants have been "shown the door".
The unpopular attack also continues in France and Italy, which have no troika and no memorandum.
That is why the Europe 2020 strategy to boost the competitiveness of groups is being implemented across the EU.
We know very well in our country where this road and the policy of previous governments leads.
The number of unemployed has exceeded 1.5 million, and among younger people almost 1 in 2 cannot find a job.
The people's income has fallen by almost 25% and if we count the increase in taxes and the soaring cost of living, workers have lost half their standard of living.
It is a challenge to present Al. Tsipras as an achievement of the ruling Left, that he has ensured a plate of food to 30,000 families living in extreme poverty, while
during the crisis 140 billion were invested abroad by the domestic ruling class of capitalists.
It is a challenge to present 8-month contracts in galley conditions as an answer to unemployment, in order to recycle the unemployed.
No one should be fooled again by the proclamations of the New Democracy and Syriza, the other bourgeois parties.
Today we know what is coming on the day after the elections, on 21 September.
SYRIZA, ND, PASOK, POTAMI have voted and accepted the position of the 3rd Memorandum
that Greece will design and implement a wide range of reforms in the labour market and the commodity market in full compliance with EU requirements,
i.e. the abolition of even more conquests and rights.
We also see the possibility of a new international synchronised capitalist crisis, based on the signs of the slowdown in China, the recession in Japan, the increase in asymmetry within the Eurozone.
Whatever they tell us today, they have signed that in the autumn, i.e. immediately after the elections of September 20, whichever government is formed will present the new medium-term fiscal strategy programme 2016-2019, which will contain "a large and credible package of parametric measures and structural reforms".
Measures of around €3-4 billion are expected to be adopted immediately after the elections.
Of these measures, €2 billion have to be adopted by October and they are completely new, i.e. their content has not yet been defined.
After the elections, whichever government it is, it will proceed to implement the famous semi-automatic spending cut mechanisms when the fiscal targets set in the European Treaty on Stability, Coordination and Governance, signed in 2012, are not met.
When the targets of huge surpluses are not met, new measures, new spending cuts will be derived, by a council of wise men,
to generate enough resources to finance big capital.
The new Memorandum provides for a new tax raid on the people.
ENFIA is made permanent, the solidarity contribution is significantly increased and becomes permanent.
The self-employed are taxed from the first euro.
Farmers are in the crosshairs of a real tax storm with a surge in direct taxation, VAT on agricultural inputs, abolition of the tax-free allowance.
SYRIZA is shamelessly fooling the people, saying that the memorandum that they all co-signed together is better than the previous ones because it does not directly reduce wages.
Is it true that the 2 billion euro increase in indirect taxes, through the increase in VAT, is not paid by the working people from the working people's wages?
Only from the increase in VAT under the Tsipras Memorandum, the average working family is charged almost 1000 euros per year.
And of course, they are past forgotten what the wage earner lost in previous years.
Their declared goal is to increase the primary surpluses to 3.5% of GDP in 2018 and remain there in order to find resources to finance the monopoly groups.
And to do this requires an additional tax increase and an additional reduction in government spending that will amount to a cumulative 8 billion.
The bill for these measures alone amounts to around €2500 per year extra for the average family of four.
Tsipras claims that his Memorandum is pro-popular because it achieved smaller surpluses.
The small deficit this year and the high primary surpluses from 2018 onwards simply reflect the general growth conditions of the Greek economy.
An economy in crisis cannot ensure large surpluses.
The very agreement he signed makes this reality clear.
Most importantly, this debate wants to disguise the fact that the surpluses of 3.5% of GDP for the entire repayment period will be paid for by the Greek people, with continuous unsustainable measures.
With this cloak of fighting tax evasion, the tax attack on the popular strata that are not in a state of absolute poverty, e.g. self-employed people, etc., is being prepared.
The real opponent of the workers, big capital, will not be taxed,
as the framework of legal tax avoidance by the conglomerates, from legal tax exemptions and development laws to triangular sales, overpricing of imports and tax havens, remains in place.
SYRIZA's main argument is that the new agreement for the first time opens up the issue of debt relief.
But the truth lies in the opposite direction.
They pledged that "there will be no haircut on the debt" and that the Greek government is committed to repaying it, limiting any restructuring to a "spreading" of the debt obligations over more years, accompanied by a new unpopular attack as was the case with the PSI haircut.
The people will continue to pay a debt that the people did not create and from which the people did not benefit.
Pensioners will see new, even bigger cuts, totalling over €2 billion by 2016.
In addition to the increase of the retirement thresholds through the formula of penalising any early retirement, the increases in pension deductions, new additional measures are being prepared, such as the abolition of the ESAS and the zero deficit clause.
The aim of the changes in the social security system, which is the central axis of the general EU/ruling class policy and therefore is set as a key deliverable of the agreement, is the "closer link between contributions and benefits"
, i.e. the transfer of the insurance burden on the backs of the workers in line with the reciprocity in social security.
SYRIZA is abandoning its multiple previous commitments on privatizations,
when it stated that it would not proceed with the privatization of Elliniko, the regional airports.
After the elections, the creation of a privatisation fund is being prepared, where "50 billion in assets will flow in", with the quantitative privatisation targets being increased,
while domestic mineral resources will eventually be included in them.
SYRIZA is deceiving the people when it claims that its new programme includes only nine privatisations, unlike before, it is a political deception, since what and how it will be privatised is completely open.
After the elections comes the demolition of the remaining trade union rights,
while the way is opened for capital's constant pursuit of the liberalisation of collective dismissals.
The appeal to "EU best practices" is used to "mask" the new measures with a veneer of modernisation and culture,
concealing the fact that across the EU workers' rights are being systematically targeted and dismantled.
In order to hide this grim reality, the New Democracy and Syriza are trying to appear as the best managers of this situation.
The Southwest focuses on the notorious "equivalent measures" and talks about renegotiating the agreement.
SYRIZA, for its part, talks about the "open fronts" of the agreement, which in the right way can even become pro-popular.
He claims that with his "parallel programme", things will be better for the people.
What are they trying to do?
They are focusing on certain individual aspects of the new agreement, seeking to make the people accept as a one-way street the path that leads them to poverty, to bankruptcy.
But the truth is not hidden.
With the two previous Memoranda, the popular strata lost about 40-50% of their living standards.
The new Tsipras Memorandum comes to add new additional burdens on wages, pensions, labour relations, taxes, cost of living that add up to 20%.
They call on the people to accept the amount of the sacrifice and simply choose the pocket from which it will be taken or the special group that will suffer it, trying to separate the workers from each other.
The best example is VAT on private schools.
SYRIZA and ND accept that the people will pay for the measure and present the false question as a dilemma:
To which other pocket of the people do you want to transfer the cost?
Instead of VAT on education, do you want a tax on meat or a tax on cigarettes?
The people will also suffer great sacrifices if they choose the capitalist Greece of drachma instead of the capitalist Greece of the Euro.
As long as the goal remains capitalist growth, the increase in the profits of the conglomerates, the sacrifices of the people will not stop.
The question is not to choose whether the people will go bankrupt with internal and external devaluation.
The issue is to go down the road of real change.
The KKE steps forward and calls on the people to organise their struggle, to prepare their counter-attack for a break with capitalist exploitation and power.
The KKE is the force that can lead to the truly different, superior type of organisation of the economy and society.
With social ownership of the means of production, scientific central planning and workers' control.
The KKE's proposal for people's power that ensures socialisation of the monopolies, disengagement from the EU and unilateral cancellation of the debt is the only realistic proposal.
It is the only real alternative for the people, capable of exploiting and further developing the productive potential of the country for the benefit of the people.
Greece has the conditions (industrial and agricultural production, mineral wealth, skilled labour and scientific potential) to produce most of the products that the people need.
And from there to establish mutually beneficial relations with other countries.
These possibilities are sometimes limited or distorted,
sometimes more massively undermined, because they are subordinated to capitalist profit, to uneven capitalist growth, to the commitments of the EU.
The utilisation of all productive forces therefore needs the liberation from the shackles of capitalist property-power.
This is the only proposal that can ensure permanent and stable employment for all, exclusive public and free services of Education, Health and Welfare.
It is the only way to prevent the dangerous participation of the country in the military plans of NATO, the USA and the EU, which are directed against the peoples,
it is the only way to avoid getting caught up in the tangle of the imperialists' conflicts, who are fighting wildly with each other over how to share the oil and gas roads, roads that have always been paved with the blood of the peoples.
Such a course of subversion will not be lonely and isolated, as all the other parties defending capitalism claim.
It will be based on the struggle and solidarity of other peoples, movements and countries that will walk the same path.
In order to open this road, the KKE plays a leading role in organising the struggle in every workplace, every sector, every neighbourhood.
In the face of whatever government emerges after the elections, the KKE will be the only guarantee of popular opposition inside and outside the Parliament, with a line of conflict with the real opponent of the workers, the EU, capital and its power.
