This is a critical period and a time of responsibility.
∆There is no more room for new illusions.
So as not to fool the people again.
Because the next day of the elections they will be here and they will continue to bleed the people, the EU with its "memoranda for life", the monopolies that demand them, no matter which government will emerge from the elections, independent or cooperative.
Here will be all the anti-people's laws, the antagonisms in the EU, which have brought more poverty, unemployment and tax cuts for the popular strata.
The public debt will be here, as it has always been, which is recognized by ND-PASOK, SYRIZA, every party that becomes a government on behalf of capital.
As things stand today, the government that will emerge will neither make up for the losses nor give the people any real breathing space.
It will continue its unpopular structural measures, as long as it has commitments to the EU and the monopolies.
That is why we vote for the JKE
For a strong popular opposition that paves the way, cultivates optimism among the people, and strengthens the popular alliance for the overthrow.
It is the sure force that does not compromise with the big interests
and fights steadily for the right and the rights of the workers and young people, to open the way for a pro-people's way out.
Employees, young people, unemployed, self-employed, farmers, pensioners, women of the people's families. No one should be trapped by the blackmail and scaremongering of ND-PASOK, the false promises of SYRIZA.
ND and PASOK are lying again when they claim that they will not take any more anti-people measures.
That's what they said in 2012.
The anti-people's measures are EU guidelines, the strategy of big capital, co-signed by the Euro-road parties.
That is why in all EU countries such unpopular reforms are being carried out by right-wing (e.g. Germany) or centre-left (e.g. France, Italy) governments.
SYRIZA is not an alternative for the people.
Its leadership is testing the creditors, the EU, the business groups and calls on all of them to trust and support a SYRIZA government, because it can better serve their interests.
It has, even verbally, abandoned the proclamations of "annulment" and "abolition" of the Memorandum and especially the implementing laws, in order to recover the losses of the people.
But the abolition of memoranda also means questioning the EU, its surveillance mechanisms, the European semesters, i.e. the "lasting memoranda" at the expense of the people.
The so-called "left-wing differentiations" within SYRIZA try to hide its rapid adaptation, and to trap leftists and young people with a reflective and selfish political disposition.
SYRIZA is lying when it claims that the EU is changing.
He was saying the same thing in 2012 with Hollande, and it turns out that the EU is becoming more reactionary and unpopular.
Popular discontent with the government cannot be expressed in the so-called new parties, such as Potami, the party of G. Papandreou's party etc. that aspire to participate in a coalition government either with the New Democracy or with Syriza or with both.
They play the role of complementing and supporting the EU and its governments.
It is no coincidence that key members of the 40-year long two-party system of the Southwest - PASOK, are today being recycled into party formations of new titles.
The people and the youth must isolate and resolutely condemn the Nazi Golden Dawn.
No one should be fooled by the staged fight and the dilemmas alien to the people.
New Democracy and Syriza claim the role of the most competent manager for the interests of the capital, and not for the interests of the people.
Both are hiding:That whether the debt is settled on the basis of the ND proposal or the SYRIZA proposal, it will be done in agreement with the EU, so it will be accompanied by new unpopular commitments, as was the case with the PSI "haircut" in 2012 and in other countries.
That any debt adjustment and relaxation of fiscal discipline will not lead to relief for the people, but to an increase in state support for business groups and investments.
ND - PASOK and SYRIZA are deceiving the people, as they promise: That if the capitalist economy takes off, the people will benefit.
They are lying.
Any capitalist recovery will step on the ruins of workers' and people's rights, it will not address the huge problem of unemployment.
Those who seek tolerance from the people in advance have "soiled their nest".
The people must show no tolerance, nor must they lower the flag of struggle in the face of governments that will move along the same unpopular path.
We vote KKE all of us who want to get rid of the memoranda, the unjust policies and the unpopular governments, and live better days.
We vote for the KKE, we who want to punish the coalition government without giving our vote to allow others to continue the same.
The logic of "let's try them too" and "lesser of two evils" has cost us dearly as a people.
There is no more time for new disappointments and wasted years.
We vote KKE all of us who feel radical, leftist, progressive, who have knowledge and memory, and who have a duty to contribute to the emancipation and not to a new deception of the people.
We vote for the KKE even if we do not agree on everything or have reservations about some of its positions, because the KKE is the firm support of the people.
Whatever the people won, they won only through struggles and with the KKE in front.
We have seen that the electoral decline of the KKE cost the dynamics and massiveness of the workers' - people's movement.
But the KKE did not give up, it supported wage-earners, farmers, self-employed, pensioners, pupils, students, pupils, students, for the right to health, insurance, pension, education, for the protection of income, housing, professional housing of self-employed people and farmers from usurious loans and unbearable taxes.
Now we vote for KKE!
▶ To pave the way for the only solution for the people, which will lead to popular prosperity with the working class and the people at the helm of power.
With the unilateral and total cancellation of the debt, the disengagement from the EU and NATO, the socialisation of the monopolies.
In this popular governance the KKE will play a leading role.
▶ So that the people are not fooled again, with blackmail, false promises and staged fights.
Because the KKE will be against any unpopular policy that continues the barbaric measures giving crumbs to the people.
It will play a leading role, inside and outside Parliament, so that there is a militant popular opposition, so that real popular pressure can be exerted, which has not existed so far, either out of hesitation or illusions.
▶ Because the KKE is the force that, without retreats and backsliding, leads the organisation of the people's struggle for the abolition of all implementing laws and the recovery of losses.
It fights consistently and selflessly for the rights of workers, the rights of young people, women, the unemployed, the self-employed, the poor peasants, for the organisation of popular solidarity.
▶ Because it fights against the participation of Greece in imperialist alliances and wars, which are made or prepared for the interests of the big business groups.
It defends the sovereign rights of the country against NATO and the EU, fights for the exit of the country and does not participate in interventions against peoples.
▶ It fights to isolate and defeat the fascist ideology and action of the Nazi Golden Dawn, in whatever guise it appears.
▶ To revive the workers' - people's movement, to build and strengthen the common people's alliance against the monopolies and capitalism.
With our vote we make the KKE stronger
Because this will be the force that will be next to the people and in front of the struggle for wages, work and rights.
He believes that the people have the right and the possibility to live much better.
For the people to trust in their own power, to become protagonists, and to pave the way to prosperity with their own power.
