The Greek citizens who met over the last two years, facing the attack of the New Order through memoranda, national humiliation and a violent economic attack on the Greek family, agreed to establish a political body called "Independent Greeks".
This body:It upholds the principles of National Independence and pride, popular sovereignty, the promotion of the national interest, respect for the Constitution and parliamentary democracy.
It demands the abolition of the Memorandum and refuses to accept the onerous, illegal debt that was created with usurious interest rates.
It rejects the cession of National Sovereignty and the abolition of the Nation-State.
It demands the abolition of all immunity of officials, MPs and ministers for crimes committed against the Greek people and public property.
It demands the punishment of the embezzlers of public money and the confiscation of their assets.
It guarantees the sovereign rights of Greece in relation to:a) The definition of the Greek EEZ.
b) The claim for the reparations and occupation loans owed by Germany.
6.  It upholds equality, equity, solidarity, justice and meritocracy.
It protects the Greek family and the citizen from the attack of the markets.
We believe in the constitution of parliamentary democracy and seek to strengthen and expand its institutions, with direct participation of citizens in decision-making.
We believe in the values and timelessness of Orthodoxy.
We recognize her contribution to the nation
and at the same time we guarantee the right to freedom of religion and individual self-determination to every citizen.
We believe in a United Europe of solidarity and cooperation, where all member states are equal, maintaining their national existence and dignity, and we reject the logic and practices that have turned it into a vehicle of the interests of the most powerful countries and the global banking system.
We believe in the European orientation of the country and at the same time we reject the dependence that leads to international isolation and deprives the country of other geopolitical alliances. ς
We believe in a rational development driven by the free market, where the product produced is fairly distributed.
A market that is not undermined and slandered by the current economic terrorism of loan sharks and opportunists.
The above were proposed by 196,400 Greeks via the internet and constitute the initial core and ideological basis of the citizens' movement.
and will then be shaped by open processes of participatory democracy and dialogue.
The Independent Greeks We are a Movement of Greek Citizens We met on the Internet and in the squares all over the country
We are united in the struggle against the New World Order and the Doctrine of Shock.
The Independent Greeks are fighting for the National Sovereignty, Independence and the National Interest of our Homeland
for Popular Sovereignty, Democracy and Respect for the Constitution
for Social Justice and the Protection of every Greek Family
on the Safeguarding of Public and Private Property
The Independent Greeks Ensure the Stability and Unity of all Greeks
the Equal and Dignified Remaining in the Euro and the European Union
of the Salaries and Pensions of all Greeks
the Structural Reform of the State and the Reduction of Waste,
without dismissals of public servants
Control over the funding of political parties and the media
the Support of Greek Entrepreneurship and Small and Medium Enterprises
Restarting the Real Economy and Exiting the Crisis
The AneR-those Greeks are the ones who want the Bank of Greece to be audited by the Greeks.
the Denunciation of the Memoranda
the cancellation of the Encumbrance and the Irrevocable Debt
the Claim for German Compensation
the declaration of the EEZ
the Abolition of the Immunity of all State Officials, Members of Parliament and Ministers
the Definitive End to the Unstructured Banking System
WE ARE MANY I WE ARE ANEIAPTHTOI I WE ARE GREEK
National CounterproposalMeasures to Relieve Households and Improve Living StandardsSuspension of Auctions and Bank Loans Cut
Control of Interest Rates, Charges and Fees of Banking Institutions
Abolition of Collection Agencies and TEIRESIA SA
Reduction of Toll Costs and Reduction of Fuel Tax
Reduction of Tax Rates and Income Taxes
Abolition of the Haraci and the Real Estate Tax Raid
Freezing and Reduction of Asset Values
Increase of the Seizure Threshold for Public Debts
Reduction of Tax Fines and Surcharges
Price and timing controls
Minimum Guaranteed Pension at 800 euros
Unemployment and Employment Allowance
Gradual restoration of income up to 20,000 euros, at May 201 O
Free Medical Care and Medicine for All
Free Greek Education with Prospects
Investment, Development and SMEs Establishment of a new Hellenic Investment Bank
Exploitation of Public Real Estate
Absorption of NSRF Community Funds
Bank Recapitalisation and Financing the Real Economy
Reduction of VAT and Special Tax Regime for Islands and Border Regions
Reduction of Tax Rates and Insurance Contributions
Attracting the Greek Pioneer Shipping Industry
Electronic Exchange Trading Platform
Support for small and medium-sized enterprises
Support for agriculture, livestock farming, fisheries and the food and agri-food sectors Beverages
Strengthening Tourism and Extending the Tourist Season
Development of the Greek Transport Industry
Stimulating the Greek Defence Industry
Stimulating the Greek pharmaceutical industry
Stimulating the insurance market
Launch of the Projects Programme
Strengthening of the maritime sector and the shipbuilding and ship repair industry
Insulation Industries & and the creation of technology and investment parks
introducing VAT in primary production, tourism and shipping
Truths and Lies that we should all know before we vote.Renegotiation of MemorandumLiesThe parties of yesterday, PASOK-ND, and most recently SYRIZA, talk about a supposed renegotiation of the memorandum...
Truth There can be no "renegotiation" of the Memorandum, because:There is a signed, explicit, unequivocal and irrevocable commitment by the leaders of the memorandum parties that they will implement the Memorandum and the orders of the lenders without fail.
At the same time, our European partners and the Troika explicitly reject any negotiation of the memorandum.
At the same time, they constantly stress that Greece must honour its commitments "at all costs".
How and with whom will they negotiate? Did they not even negotiate in the first place? Are they finally mocking the Greek people?
The only choice of our country at this critical moment is: The legal termination of Memoranda I and 11, the loan agreements and the abolition of the implementing laws.
Specifically, the memoranda and the loan agreements:They are unconstitutional. Therefore invalid.
They violate the EU Founding Treaties and the ECHR (European Convention on Human Rights).
They are contrary to international law and the jurisprudence of the International Court of Justice.
The Memorandum I was never legally ratified by the Greek Parliament because the provisions of article 28, par. 2 of the Constitution on the ratification of International Conventions.
The lenders have not complied with the material term of the loan agreement to pay the total amount of EUR 110 billion, which should have been paid by 31 December 2011.
Of Memorandum 11, only the draft, not the final text, was submitted to the Parliament for a vote.
WE ARE MANY WE ARE INDEPENDENT WE ARE GREEKS
Euro or DrachmaThe Memorandum parties claim that ...... "a possible failure of the Memorandum and the non-fulfilment of the country's commitments will lead us out of Europe and out of the Euro."
... "the election dilemma is Euro or drachma"
TrueBlackmail is unsubstantiated.
Under the EU Treaties, monetary union is irrevocable and final.
There is no mechanism for any Eurozone Member State to exit from the common currency under current European legislation.
Besides, our country has no reason to leave the Eurozone, nor can anyone force it to do so.
The Euro was not given to us! Greece is a co-owner of the Euro.
It participated in the formation of Ekt's reserve by transferring to it foreign exchange reserves in gold and securities.
Wages - PensionsPseemaThey are terrorizing the Greek people, saying that:- ... "the termination of the memorandum will lead to an internal stop payment and the inability to pay wages and pensions".
TruthThe memoranda and the austerity policy imposed on our country have led our economy into a deep and unprecedented recession.
If this policy continues, then and only then, there will be an inability to pay salaries and pensions, which will cause a social explosion.
Our lenders are well aware of this and that is exactly why:In the forthcoming revision of the Constitution (spring 2013) they demand (!) to incorporate a provision in our Constitution that "First the lenders will be paid and then the needs of the state will be covered".
This term is contrary to the jurisprudence of the International Court of Justice.
They have already called for the creation of a special escrow account for the payment of creditors in which all state revenues are collected.
That is, they have the absurd demand from this special account to pay themselves first and then with what is left over, IF ANYTHING IS SURPLUS, to pay the beneficiaries' salaries and pensions and to cover the vital needs of the state such as health, education, defence etc.
Therefore, the memoranda are leading us with mathematical precision to an internal default, to the inability to pay salaries and pensions, to the collapse of the state and to a social explosion.
Unfortunately, this is what they have signed in Memorandum 11 and this is what Samaras and Venizelos have committed themselves to in their personal letters.
This is what the lenders' agents will try - if they ever get 180 seats in Parliament - to include in our Constitution.
WE ARE MANY WE ARE INDEPENDENT WE ARE GREEKS
Shortage of basic consumer goodsΨemmaThey are scaring the Greek people by saying that... "if we don't carry out the lenders' orders there will be shortages of basic consumer goods e.g. food, medicine, fuel etc."
TruthBasic consumer goods (food, fuel, medicines, etc.) are produced - imported and distributed by private companies, not by state-owned ones.
All the state has done so far is to create problems for the wider private sector (non-refund of VAT, inconsistent payments, etc.).
b) Exports are facing a serious problem because foreign companies have already stopped insuring export credits to Greece.
α) Foreign companies have stopped accepting guarantees from Greek importers.
Greek imports of raw materials, foodstuffs, medicines and goods in general are now becoming extremely difficult.
Greek importers are obliged to prepay their foreign suppliers in full and in cash. I wonder when they will be able to do this?
The inability of businesses to both import and export products is the reality we will face if the dead-end implementation of the memoranda continues.
"Bond haircut" (PSI)LieIt is claimed that ... "there was a benefit to the Greek state from the restructuring of the debt through the PSI of 105 billion Euros".
TruthThe "haircut" of bonds (PSI) is one of the biggest scams in history.
The initial benefit for the Greek state is not 105 billion Euros but only 27 billion Euros (13% of GDP).
Greece practically went bankrupt, disrupted the global economy, was targeted like no other economy on the planet for just 27 billion Euros! //| Specifically:
The ECB, foreign national central banks and Troika loans were exempted from the bond haircut.
Only Greek banks, social security funds and Greek private bondholders were "mowed down".
Bonds subject to foreign law were not included in the PSI.
Only domestic creditors were affected.
It is worth noting that only one of the Greek banks has recorded losses equal to the losses recorded by all the German banks combined !
In the same tragic situation, the insurance funds, hospitals, universities, public utilities and other entities of the broader public sector found themselves in when the interest-bearing deposits they held at the BoE were wrongly - at the end of the PSI - converted into Greek public sector bonds in order to be "cut" ...
It is a challenge and an insult when Greek savers-bondholders lose a lifetime of hardships without any compensation being provided for them, at the same time that a 436 million euro foreign bond from the Cayman Islands is being paid normally by decision of the Prime Minister of the Samaras-Venizelos coalition government ...
The PSI is a big fiasco.
The government of the Troika officials not only failed to negotiate a decent and viable solution for Greece but also showed criminal behaviour against our country.
At the same time, it has also mocked the Greek people by presenting the above project as a success!
The so-called saviors of Greece and their sworn collaborators:TRANSFORMED the non-guaranteed loans of the country into mortgages. The loans were subject to colonial English law.
At the same time, the lenders are well aware that these loans are impossible to repay amidst the recession and unemployment caused by the repayment conditions they themselves imposed.
By explicitly forbidding any compensation to the bondholders, they have managed to destroy any notion of trust of the citizen towards the state.
such unconventional behavior, why? Is it to make it impossible for our country to resort to internal borrowing in case of emergency?
They are using the loans of the Troika to support only the debt and interest, their own banks and not the needs of our country.
The instalments are disbursed when the bonds mature and not a single cent has ever been used to meet the vital needs of the state and its citizens...
Greece has lived and continues to live on its own resources, on the revenues of Greek taxpayers.
Pursue growth through "fast track" investments as they know that in this way they will achieve colonial investment conditions.
The "fast track" is not development but a commitment to sell off the country's resources and it is mainly for foreign investors.
THEY CREATED conditions of a working middle class.
The proud Greek worker is transformed into a third world slave with no rights and below the poverty line.
They, in close cooperation with their local officials, have managed to inflate the country's debt and even consider it their achievement that the debt in 2020 will amount to more than 120% of GDP!
THEY SOLD the present and future generations.
They were waived immunity, an inalienable right of every nationally sovereign state.
THEY GAVE UP OUR NATIONAL SOVEREIGNTY.
SUCH TREASON HAS NEVER BEEN COMMITTED IN THE HISTORY OF THE GREEK NATION.
They MUST BE MADE EXAMPLE!
It is the first time in the history of our country that its leaders have NOT used the negotiating weapons available to the country (default on debt, recourse to third country support mechanisms, recourse to justice, etc.) in its favour.
They did NOT defend the interests of Greece and its citizens.
Instead, they have turned and continue to turn these weapons against the people themselves.
Against the people they are supposed to serve, in order to bend their conscience, to blackmail their will and to subjugate them completely to the appetites of their so-called saviors...
Who do they serve by their actions?
Do they serve the interests of the Greek people or the interests of the lenders?
Are we going to trust them to govern our country and the future of our children? ~
WE ARE MANY WE ARE INDEPENDENT WE ARE GREEKS
