We demand the right to stable employment for all those of working age (after 18) with full employment rights.
Leisure time is a key issue, especially for younger people, who are the first to shape their personality and political awareness.
It presupposes a reduction in working time, is linked to the development of popular culture and mass sports, human life in a human environment, and in general an active attitude to life.
We are fighting against the situation that has developed in the workplaces, with violations of workers' rights, violation of collective agreements, working hours, unpaid work, lack of health and safety measures, employer terrorism, with the first victims being young people who are now entering production and young immigrants.
We demand:
Fixed work with 7-hour, 5-day, 35-hour.
Minimum wage 1,300 euros
and 1,050 lower pension.
Retirement at 60 for men and 55 for women.
Free time as a necessary condition for the maturation and completion of the young person's personality, for securing his right to social life and action and to have a family.
The abolition of flexible labour relations, the abolition of the hostage-taking of fixed-term contracts and their automatic conversion into open-ended contracts.
Protection measures in workplaces, reinforcement of control mechanisms with staff and equipment.
We are fighting for effective protection of the right to trade union action, the right to strike.
Reduction of the pensionable age to 55 and 50 for heavy and unhealthy work or to 30 years of work regardless of the age limit.
Pension increases on the basis of 80% of the pensionable salary.
We demand combined social and labour measures:
Licences for pregnancy, childbirth and breastfeeding for all women, regardless of which sector they work in.
Two months before and five months after the birth of the child with full pay and full insurance rights.
Reduced working hours as they are, i.e. two and one hour respectively in the first two and four years for the man or woman of their choice.
Under no circumstances should there be any offsetting, as is currently the case, for those who take 9 months' leave after the birth of a child, without insurance and summer holiday entitlement.
Increase parental leave in cases of child illness or for educational follow-up.
Ban night work for women in industry.
For some other professions, such as nursing, the ban on night work should apply from the moment pregnancy is established and throughout the pre-school age of children.
Members of single-parent families to work only the day shift until the children reach the age of 10.
Reduced working hours by two hours for single-parent families with disabled children and an increased one-week summer holiday.
For the unemployed, in particular, we demand:
Measures to protect them until they find work.
Subsidy at 80% of the basic wage, without any condition from the 1st day of unemployment.
Free health care and a health insurance booklet for all without conditions.
Rent subsidies for young people and young unemployed people who rent a house.
Freezing loans during unemployment.
Unemployment days to be insured.
For the peasantry
We demand:
Satisfactory minimum guaranteed prices on all agricultural products.
Reducing production costs and building infrastructure.
Substantial settlement of debts and full payment of subsidies to beneficiary farmers.
Democratisation and strengthening of cooperatives.
Full insurance of agricultural production and agricultural capital.
Immediate doubling of rural pensions.
Public Health, Welfare and Education.
For the self-employed
We support the demands of the self-employed, the small and medium-sized enterprises for:
Tax relief, for at least the first 5 years after the start of the micro-enterprise.
Financing, with interest at the rate of inflation.
Securing the occupational roof for at least 12 years.
Provision by the state of infrastructure, industrial parks for the establishment of activities.
Pension at 55 for women, 60 for men.
Coverage of the insurance contribution by the state by 2/3 and 1/3 by the insured persons, up to 4,050 contributions.
It is still worthwhile today to demand measures to relieve the SMEs from the problems caused by the violent contraction,
but these will not answer the central problem that exists and that is related to the struggle for the abolition of the monopolies, the struggle for people's power.
An immediate issue is the struggle against the liberalisation of working hours,
to tackle unbearable taxation,
for the infrastructure of industrial parks and the establishment of activities, for the
abolition of laws allowing squatting,
for Social Security, etc.
All-round education for all - for creative living
No to class barriers and the trade in knowledge, to the substitution of education for training.
We are fighting for education and scientific research in the service of contemporary popular needs, and not for the passive adaptation of young people to the system of social inequality and injustice and the intensification of their material and intellectual exploitation.
As opposed to the class-differentiated education of social selection by an elite and the ideological manipulation of the many by the few.
We are fighting for a Unified People's Education through a free public education system, so that everyone can develop his or her abilities in harmony and society as a whole can rise to create an ever higher civilization.
Instead of the substitution of mass education by individual forms of "lifelong learning", marketable "packages" of unadulterated knowledge and empirical skills, we start from the necessary and possible in our time qualitative and quantitative expansion of the basic - general education of all, as a minimum condition for any life choice and for the upgrading of professional or scientific education.
The state health and welfare system
Never before has the struggle for physical and mental health and well-being been so closely linked to the struggle for workers' rights, against the strategic choices of the capitalist system, against the capitalist system itself.
We demand:
A free public system of Health - Welfare, Medicine and Insurance, with the abolition of any business activity or insurance contribution by the workers.
The Health System:
It should be universal, for everyone living in Greece, whether they work or not.
Provide free modern services to workers and non-workers, the unemployed and their dependent family members, migrants, refugees and conscripts.
Building on the potential of science and technology.
Show particular care for the protection of women throughout their reproductive years.
Particular emphasis should be placed on the prevention of occupational diseases based on studies specific to the female body.
Preventive medicine and special monitoring of the pregnant woman and her children.
Prevention must be universal, specific to age, gender, occupation, environment, housing.
To provide free of charge all mandatory counselling services to the parents of the children for the creation of positive tendencies in the child, in his/her nutrition, in his/her personal and psychosomatic health, in his/her social adaptation.
Free school medical assistance to school and adolescent age, with a school medical service, staffed by a team of specialists, such as a paediatrician, dentist, social worker, special child psychologist - pedagogue.
To provide health services for the psychosocial and intellectual development of children and adolescents, to identify problems and provide interventions such as smoking, alcohol, addictive substances, learning difficulties, behavioural disorders.
At the primary level and through the state health system, the necessary infrastructure should be assembled in mental health centres, public health, occupational medicine, school health.
- The Health Centre is the link with the other levels of the health system, secondary and tertiary and with the ambulance service which must be developed nationwide.
- Every person gets his or her own health record from the moment of birth and throughout life.
- Coverage of all families with a family doctor and paediatrician, who will monitor all family members and from the point of view related to reproductive capacity and its consequences.
- Mandatory checks on the safety of infrastructure and hygiene in places of work, education, leisure, sport, etc., taking into account gender and age factors.
- Each health centre should have the necessary number of women's and children's centres staffed by a gynaecologist, paediatrician, psychologist, midwife, nurse and social worker, depending on the population and the geographical and professional specificity of the area.
At the secondary level, all hospitals should have sufficient obstetric, gynaecological and paediatric beds for the population, with adequate permanent staff.
At the tertiary level, to create, with special state funds, centralized research programs for the prevention of serious diseases and around issues of under-generation, pathogens, in cooperation with hospitals and health centers.
In terms of specificity by region, gender and age.
There is a need for the creation of public rehabilitation centres at all levels of the health system, aiming at physical - medical rehabilitation and reintegration into production and society.
Measures to protect families with disadvantaged children and children themselves
We demand:
Public free compulsory special education that covers 100% of children in need, from the special nursery and school where needed (for blind, deaf, autistic, mentally retarded, severely disabled) or special classes or support with special teachers in ordinary schools
Special education should incorporate the modern achievements of pedagogy.
To cultivate self-confidence in the disabled child, love of life, knowledge and the goods of culture
Free provision of all the necessary technical aids to disabled pupils and students, necessary for their education and daily life
Special education to specifically provide for and plan the integration of these children into production
Special ergonomic service to ensure that adjustments are made in services and businesses to enable the integration of new disabled workers, or young people with some adaptation problems.
To develop special mass sports and cultural creation
For democratic rights
Democratic freedoms are inseparable from rights to work and education, from trade union freedoms.
Only in conditions of social ownership of the basic and concentrated means of production, in conditions of workers' social control within the framework of popular power can there be talk of democratic rights for the youth.
In today's conditions, the struggle for democracy is inseparable from the struggle against state and employer violence and repression,
against the anti-democratic laws of the EU that have been legalised in Greece,
against the imperialist policy that reduces class struggle to terrorism,
against imperialist policy, against participation in war and military-political violence.
We fight:
- Against NATO and its new structure, its enlargement with new member countries or through the so-called "partnership for peace". Condemn NATO's policy, particularly in recent years, its action outside its borders, its ability to launch a pre-emptive strike, its use of small nuclear weapons, its threat and use of force.
To condemn NATO's policy, especially in recent years, the action outside the borders, the possibility of pre-emptive strikes, the use of small nuclear weapons, the threat and use of force.
- Against the militarisation of the EU, which has institutionalised the NATO recipes for intervention "wherever the interests of the Union are affected".
Condemn the creation of the Euroarmy, the rapid reaction force and the assumption of occupation army tasks in the Balkans and Africa.
- Oppose the transformation of the country's Armed Forces into a mercenary army for action outside the borders in the context of the imperialist ambitions and wars.
- No action outside the borders, return to the country the Armed Forces units located in Kosovo, Bosnia, FYROM, Afghanistan. No involvement in the Middle East, no financial support and training for the 'Security Battalions' in Iraq.
No involvement in the Middle East, no financial support and training of the "Security Battalions" in Iraq.
- The US-NATO bases in Greece, in Souda, in Aktio, the radio stations of the "Voice of America", the Naval Mission Center.
Not to cede the port of Thessaloniki and zones of Greek airspace.
- No concession of sovereign defence rights to the US, NATO, EU, no concession to Turkey's claims in the Aegean.
- Reverse Madrid's statement that Turkey has "vital interests" in the Aegean.
The struggle for sovereign rights in the Aegean is a struggle against the plans of the US and NATO to play the role of arbitrator in the region in order to take control of the Aegean.
- Reduce military spending and armaments that serve NATO needs.
Armament programmes to serve exclusively the defence of the country, weapon systems with the morphology of the terrain, development of the country's defence industry, mainly the state-owned one.
We are fighting against the terror laws and terror philology that have one goal, to identify the struggle of the peoples for social liberation, for social progress, for socialism, with terrorism.
The youth has a terrorist against it, imperialism, capitalist barbarism.
We demand the abolition of the mercenary army and its entrapment in the EPOP-type corps, part-time, fixed-term contractors.
The mercenary army not only does not answer the problem of unemployment, but will instead be used against the people and the youth who are demanding their rights, based on the doctrine of the action of the armed forces and the mercenaries within the country.
The KKE is against the institution, not against the young people who, pushed by unemployment, are persuaded to participate.
For young couples
The protection of the mother and the child, the needs of the new couple who want to have a child are exclusively a matter for the state.
The same applies to large families and mothers and fathers with children without a husband.
We are demanding comprehensive measures and infrastructure that reverse the objective obstacles that currently exist for young couples to organise their own lives based on modern requirements.
Young people should be free to decide when to have a family, at what age, when and how many children to have.
Dealing with the demographic problem, which is hypocritically presented, cannot be done unless some of its main factors, such as poverty, unemployment, insecurity, the cost of living, are addressed.
The freedom to choose whether and how many children a family will have can only exist if the problems related to the birth and development of the child are solved, under the responsibility of the state.
What is needed are measures that support the family, not hypocritical measures that refer only to the individual without taking into account the overall collective needs of the family and, indeed, in its first difficult steps.
The existence of an integrated network of social facilities for the family, the child, the elderly, for people with special needs will also contribute to the improvement of women's lives, to the increase of their free time, since with the current facts and established practices the greatest burden of care falls on their shoulders.
Required:
State-run free modern nurseries and public creative activity centres for children and infants.
Home support for the new couple who have a child, to deal with any problems they may have.
Creation of a network of state-run children's camps for all children of the working and unemployed.
Priority is given to families with an unemployed person, single-parent families, poor people's families, immigrants.
Provide services and care with state infrastructure and services to address child abuse issues.
Helping children who have maladjusted or dangerous parents, families with special problems that have been severely affected.
Abolish the law that makes prostitution a profession, in the name of protecting health, in the name of legalising illegality.
The prostitution of men and women is evidence of the rottenness and corruption of the society of exploitation. What is needed is to eliminate the factors that breed this anti-social and inhuman phenomenon of violence.
On the problem of land and forests, open spaces, mountain ranges and coasts
As long as land is bought and sold, there will be the problem of speculation based on the cyclical increase or decrease of prices.
Today we are demanding the conversion into public property of all private land in the mountains and forests, on the coast and in the remaining open spaces owned by companies, cooperatives, the Church and profit-making organisations.
If this issue is not resolved, no amount of reforestation will actually solve the problem.
There will only be prospects when the political conditions for the socialization of land are created,
and at the same time guaranteeing the right of every family to have its own first modern residence, in terms of safety and environmental protection,
as well as the right to a second residence for holiday purposes, while ensuring that there will be no family, no worker who will not enjoy the right to holiday and recreation.
