Greece is a member state of the European Union (EU) and NATO, located in the most sensitive, unstable and potentially conflict-ridden region of the European and global system.
The crisis in Ukraine and its side-effects, the escalating crisis in the Middle East, with the ongoing civil conflict in Syria and the rise of the jihadists of the Islamic State (IS) and the atrocities it commits,
the instability in the wider geographical region, the internal and external problems of Turkey,
the economic instability in Russia, the general fragmentation of the world system,  theintensification of political and economic nationalism,
global economic uncertainty, demographic upheavals and shifts in the global distribution of economic activities,
anarchic globalisation, expanding migratory flows and environmental threats, all these pose
critical challenges, dilemmas and choices for Greece.
External risks and threats are multiplying.
PASOK-Democratic Party is the patriotic force that, with clear positions, a specific programme and strategy, can face the challenges, manage the problems and develop solutions,
defend Greek interests in the best possible way, starting from the strengthening of the country's position both internally and within the European Union.
The economic crisis should not and cannot be an obstacle to the strengthening of Greece's European, regional and international role.
Greece has important advantages such as its position in the EU, its geographical location, its cultural heritage, the Greek diaspora, its international shipping.
T h e r e
To promote Greece as a factor of peace, stability and cooperation, with a continuously modernizing multidimensional foreign policy, which will take advantage of all opportunities to promote basic democratic values and national interests,
with new instruments and new forms of action, in conjunction with the EU's Common Foreign and Security Policy (CFSP/CSDP).
By making creative use of the Union's framework, we can promote a multidimensional, multifunctional foreign policy.
Promote the integration of the countries of the region into the European Union if they fulfil the necessary conditions ("Copenhagen criteria").
To promote all forms and processes of interregional cooperation and rapprochement between states and peoples through the development of concrete actions and measures.
To seek a quick solution to the problem of the name of the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia (FYROM), with an arrangement that respects the sensitivities of both sides, safeguards the long-standing and timeless Greek interests and respects history.
The resolution of the problem will allow the process of the neighbouring country's accession to the Euro-Atlantic institutions to move forward, with the active support of Greece.
Seek to resolve the problems with Turkey on the basis of the principles of international law, the UN, good neighbourliness, peaceful and cooperative relations.
Greece and Turkey are "doomed" to coexist as geographically adjacent countries, and it is therefore imperative that they develop to the highest degree of friendship and cooperation for the benefit of both peoples.
In this pursuit, we will use low and high political means and procedures, while safeguarding all Greek interests under international law.
On this basis, Greece will continue to support Turkey's EU accession process.
Seek the full normalization of Greek-Turkish relations, a prerequisite for the resolution of the Cyprus problem on the basis of the UN principles and the framework of a "bi-communal, bi-zonal federation".
Turkey can play a catalytic role in this process.
For its part, Greece will continue to fully support the Republic of Cyprus in its efforts for a just solution, for the benefit of both communities.
To intensify our peacekeeping role in the Middle East, with a view to solving problems and deepening our relations with the countries of the region, including Israel and the Palestinian Authority.
The Middle East should be put firmly on the path of peace, development and democracy.
We will work to make the European Union more active to this end.
At the same time, we will continue our efforts to develop complementary forms and frameworks of cooperation with the countries of the region (Middle East, Mediterranean).
Deepen our relations with the other major poles of the international system (USA, Russia, China).
With the USA, the traditionally friendly allied relations can be enriched with new political, economic and cultural content.
The conclusion of the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership (TTIP), between the EU and the US, will contribute in this direction.
With Russia, we want to develop multiple ties of friendship both at the bilateral level and within the European Union, on the basis of respect for the rules of international law and good neighbourly relations.
We seek, by removing all obstacles in this direction, to restore Russia as a "strategic partner" in its close cooperation with the European Union.
Political and economic relations with China have developed rapidly in recent years and the aim remains to deepen them further.
In a coordinated way, we will also upgrade our relations with all the "emerging economic powers" and,
as far as possible, we will stand by all countries, on every continent, that seek to improve their economic and political position on the basis of respect for fundamental civil and political rights and good governance.
To further broaden the thematic content of the country's external policy, through economic, trade and energy diplomacy,
environmental protection and climate change,
tackling the problem of migration, culture, development and humanitarian missions.
Greece, a country without a troubled past, can play an important role in these areas.
In cooperation with our EU partners, promote a comprehensive policy to address new international threats and risks (terrorism, international organised crime, illegal migration, cybercrime, etc.)
9. Tocontribute to the normative democratic framing of globalisation and interdependence so that
this process is "controlled" by political forces and produces beneficial results for all.
In this context, it is necessary to reform international political and economic institutions to reflect today's global political and economic realities.
10. to strengthen the country's defence shield by promoting the objectives and priorities mentioned above, but also by maintaining a strong deterrent force.
The armed forces should be developed to fully respond to the modern challenges, risks and threats facing the country, in a broader context of rationalisation and redefinition of objectives and means.
PASOK - Democratic Progressive Party | European UnionEuropean Union10 POSITIONS FOR EUROPE OF DEVELOPMENT, EMPLOYMENT, SOLIDARITY, UNITY Introduction
Unified Europe as we know it is institutionally and politically incomplete.
It is not sufficiently democratic and is largely dominated by policies that do not contribute in a balanced and symmetrical way to the development of the European area and the distribution of the benefits of integration.
So we want a more united Europe, another, better Europe.
A Europe (European Union) as a community of values and a system of cohesion and solidarity that will function as an institution for maximising social welfare and deepening political democracy for all citizens.
A Europe that is an active agent of stability and peace in the international system.
We want more Europe, not as an ideological goal, but as a necessity and a precondition for Greece to finally and definitively overcome the cycle of crises and establish a strong position in the globalised system.
In this logic, the inevitable cession of sovereignty for the deepening of integration allows Greece to regain bargaining power in the regional and international system.
The crisis of European integration, and particularly of the Eurozone, cannot be overcome by a return to the past.
A return to the nation state is not a solution, it is a dead end.
The crisis will be tackled by moving forward, by more integration, but with the active engagement of society.
Europe cannot be built in the absence of society and citizens.
We must therefore redefine the European project with the involvement of citizens.
Places
To complete EMU to make it a genuine economic and monetary union, by complementing it with economic union, fiscal union, banking union, its social dimension and strong governance.
A genuine EMU will have instruments, policies and actions (debt mutualisation, resource transfers, fiscal discipline, etc.) that will ensure a balanced distribution of benefits for all Eurozone member countries,
a symmetric distribution of adjustment costs across all member countries,
and ultimately the irreversible sustainability of the single currency, the euro.
In this context, we need to rethink the role and mission of the European Central Bank (ECB).
Develop EU policies and budget to ensure economic growth, social cohesion, convergence and technological leadership,
but also a strong position in the global redistribution of economic activities.
The Union should gain substantial new competences in crucial areas such as social affairs, taxation, employment, industry and digital networks, alongside the deepening of the internal market, particularly in services.
All of this will lead to the formulation of an integrated development policy at Union level, which is currently lacking, without invalidating the individual policies of the Member States.
The EU budget must acquire the resources that will allow the Union to finance its policies.
3.Strengthen the EU's international role.
The Union should gradually acquire full competence in the areas of foreign policy, security and defence, with a view to promoting its values, maximising the satisfaction of its interests, protecting its Member States, and providing a democratic normative framework for globalisation.
To promote political union, with strong central institutions with democratic legitimacy.
The Union should finally have a central, coherent government, democratically legitimised.
The European Parliament should become the essential institution for the expression of democracy at EU level,
while the role of national parliaments in the unification process should be strengthened.
To redefine the European Project with all the above elements, in the form of a new Treaty for European integration, reflected in a new constitutional treaty, through transparent, democratic procedures.
It is desirable that the new European Plan should include all EU member states.
However, if this is not possible, it should be implemented at the level of Eurozone member countries.
Deepening integration will also enable the Union to enlarge to include all the candidate countries.
To bring out the social face of Europe, through an emphasis on social rights, not just economic freedoms.
Strengthen and converge social policies through a European system of subsidies for new jobs.
Ensure that every young person has access to work or education/training.
Adopt a minimum guaranteed income and affordable education, housing, healthcare and care for all.
To help Europe regain global leadership in the green economy.
Invest in sustainable development, to protect nature and natural resources, to fight pollution, to tackle climate change.
Reduce carbon emissions, increase the use of renewable energy sources, ensure access to energy for everyone.
To highlight the strategic importance of agriculture and fisheries for our societies, while promoting sustainable and prosperous rural development.
Promote innovation, research, training, smart industrialisation.
Investment in education, research and technology should be able to go beyond the budgetary constraints of EMU.
Ensure greater room for manoeuvre for investment through national budgets, making use of each country's natural resources and comparative advantages.
The European Central Bank acting as a lender of last resort not only for banks but also for states.
Ensure equality and strengthen women's rights and gender equality.
Tackle pay inequality, violence against women, the conflict between family and professional life.
To combat racism, xenophobia, sexism, homophobia, transphobia, transphobia, intolerance, in order to ensure a safe environment for every European citizen..
1 1O. 0. To establish a Europe of diversity and polymorphism.
To elevate a mound of soil in the prefabricated areas, thus ensuring the free cycling of the population.
No one is at risk of losing his or her sexuality, his or her sexuality, his or her sexual orientation, his or her sexual orientation, his or her sexual orientation, his or her sexual orientation, his or her sexual orientation, his or her sexual orientation, his or her sexual orientation, his or her sexual orientation, his or her sexual orientation, his or her sexual orientation, his or her sexual orientation, his or her sexual orientation, his or her sexual orientation, his or her sexual orientation, his or her sexual orientation, his or her sexual orientation, his or her sexual orientation, his or her sexual orientation, his or her sexual orientation, his or her sexual orientation, his or her sexual orientation, his or her sexual orientation, of his, of his, of his, of his, of his, of his, of his, of his, of his, of his, of his, of his, of his, of his, of his, of his, of his, of his, of his, of his disability. of.
To formulate a common European European Union immigration and migration policy, to establish a European Union Immigration and Migration Office and to establish a European Union border protection and to provide for the protection of the borders of the European Union.
PASOK - Democratic Progressive Party | Development Model - EconomyDevelopment Model - Economy20 POSITIONS ON THE DEVELOPMENT MODEL AND ECONOMYIntroduction
The implementation of the country's fiscal targets must be accompanied by continuous and tough negotiations to improve the terms of the loan agreements and ensure the sustainability of public debt.
The country will finally emerge from the crisis by continuing its European course, without the need to depend on loan agreements in the future.
However, the country needs to move from a crisis phase to a phase of normality.
PASOK's National Reconstruction and Development Plan has a progressive political bias.
It is a project of a broader "bottom-up" agreement, a broad democratic social negotiation with the forces of production and labour.
A socially progressive proposal for change that must explain clearly and documented why, how, when and with whom, so that everyone knows who loses and who gains from the changes, how the burdens and benefits are distributed, how everyone participates fairly in their social and economic dividend.
The ideological, value and political core of this programmatic framework is articulated in a complementary set of major redistributions of power, resources and opportunities:
from the parasitic, financialized economy to real production,
from the accumulation of excess profits to productive investment, from the economy of income earners to the economy of innovative entrepreneurs,
from easy profits in the shadow of the client state and lawlessness to investing in workers and the general interest,
from closed systems and inward-looking to fair competition and outward-looking,
from parochialism and unfair privileges to dignity and equal opportunities.
PASOK's new founding relationship with the world of production and labour "socialises" the national reconstruction project.
PASOK reestablishes its historical links with organised labour and productive entrepreneurship
and expands the limits of participation in collective decisions by representing the most precarious and politically/unionist unrepresented groups of workers.
The social partners are becoming an active part of economic adjustment and reconstruction in a context of mutual trust and shared expectations that are constantly confirmed by the achievement of collective objectives.
The national reconstruction agreement is the New Social Contract between State-Capital-Labour,
with clear medium- and long-term commitments and obligations that gradually "compensate" for the sacrifices of adjustment, on the basis of commonly accepted, predetermined targets.
The stakes of the new development model are reflected in the concept of social cohesion.
as embodied in the right to work and security.
The conditions of reconstruction are followed by the three main pillars of the new development model:
Places
1. To base the new growth model on three key pillars:Externalisation: increasing competitiveness, shifting to exports and investment.
Innovation: research and development funds (private and public), productive use of research, innovative entrepreneurship, productivity growth.
Acceleration: cutting red tape, speeding up procedures and the administration of justice, tackling polygamy.
2. to ensure a successful transition of the country to the next phase of the adjustment programme, i.e. the ECCL, after the two-month extension of the current programme, which will allow the country to enter the markets.
This assumes the successful conclusion of the last negotiation with the Troika, which is still pending.
Only a coordinated and jointly agreed effort with our partners will allow the final exit from the Memorandum and the restoration of the country's institutional normality.
3. To achieve the final settlement of the Greek debt.
With great sacrifices of the Greek people, we achieved the target of primary surpluses.
The country should continue to meet its revenue targets.
However, these targets should be revised downwards in the coming period and more oxygen should be given to the Greek economy.
For this to happen, a bold adjustment of Greek debt is required, through the reduction of average interest rates and the extension of the average repayment period.
This action, which in practice constitutes a "haircut" but will not be unilateral and destructively aggressive, will secure the country's transition to a new phase of reconstruction.
4. To formulate a transparent National Tax System that ensures broader consensus on the distribution of burdens.
After the implementation of a tax policy of an exceptional nature, with suffocating fiscal targets and frequent rate changes, the country needs a National Tax System.
Social inequality reduces the growth prospects of the economy.
The stability and transparency of the tax framework are potentially more important parameters than the mix and level of tax rates and must be ensured through political consensus and institutional interventions.
5. reorganise the control mechanism.
No tax reform will be effective if it is not guaranteed by a reliable, modern and independent tax control mechanism, far from party influences and dependencies.
The establishment of an efficient tax mechanism is also a prerequisite for the consolidation of social justice.
Specifically, for property taxation, tax relief is proposed for those who have been hit hardest by the crisis (the demonstrably unemployed, people with disabilities, etc.),
while for income taxation, new tax rates are proposed as well as special provisions and protection for those most affected by the crisis (in the form of limited and targeted tax exemptions).
6. Draw more liquidity from the banking system, with a view to fully unlocking the potential of the Greek economy.
The major challenge in the new circumstances is to achieve the seemingly conflicting objectives of banking system stability
through prudent lending and increased provisioning, with the need to restore liquidity and finance new competitive activities in the economy.
Banks are called upon to turn to financing the competitive sectors of the economy (agriculture, shipping, tourism, innovative manufacturing, renewable energy), rather than the uncompetitive ones.
In the next phase, we should aim to increase liquidity to adequately finance the Greek economy.
We should focus on increasing competition between banks by creating favourable conditions for the establishment of small cooperative banks,
on interest rate subsidies for start-ups, on alternative bank financing tools (customer guarantees), on
strengthening export credits and the credit period between businesses, as well as
on new, more effective rules in Tiresias.
7. Revise the existing framework for the restructuring of problem loans, with the aim of getting more and more loans regulated by promoting their immediate restoration to the banks' assets and liabilities, with a
view to providing protection to lower income earners.
Businesses and households need a loan restructuring system that will allow them to breathe, while benefiting the economy.
Of course, this system should not underestimate the so-called "good payers", who, under adverse conditions, managed to meet their obligations.
We will therefore promote, in cooperation with our partners and with the banking sector, a universal restructuring system for red loans, both business and mortgage loans, which
will contribute to growth prospects and social cohesion.
8. Emphasise foreign direct investment, which is necessary for our country to be able to move to a new model of growth.
In this context, the existing privatisation programme should be implemented with greater speed and credibility, with the
exception of a few isolated cases, in order to raise the necessary funding for the development of the Greek economy.
To strengthen competition and crack down on all forms of cartels and oligopolies, so that prices are not at artificially high levels and the purchasing power of Greek consumers and businesses is increased.
We are committed to promoting a package of measures that will: strengthen and further enhance the independence of the Competition Committee;
strengthen its cooperation with relevant competent agencies and observatories; and unify
and coordinate regulatory policy between the different Authorities.
We propose the implementation of specific measures to combat unfair competition, protect consumer rights, and
further formulate a modern market surveillance mechanism.
To make full use of the money of the so-called New NSRF, the FTA, with the aim of reducing unemployment and the development effort.
But we must not let even a small part of these sums go to waste.
It is not only a question of political will but also of management competence.
That is, the ability of the state mechanism to reduce bureaucratic obstacles and to design these specialised programmes in such a way that their full absorption is ensured in a way that is compatible with the national plan for the reconstruction of the Greek economy.
Rethink the targeting of the Public Investment Programme.
Greek budgets are clearly reduced compared to the period before 2010, as are the amounts available through the public investment programme aimed at the growth effort.
These amounts will be increased through the country's return to growth.
However, the existing amounts should be allocated in a more efficient way, with the greatest possible social and economic multiplier, and in a way that is compatible with the sectors in which the development effort should be supported.
Ensure the increase in the competitiveness of the Greek economy and the transition to a new production model based on the supply of goods that supports export activity and private investment.
Economic policy should channel the country's productive resources into the export sectors, offering high quality products and services and expertise.
The real problem of Greece at the productive level was and remains that the competitive and outward-looking part of the economy was comparatively atrophied compared to the bloated and uncompetitive part of the non-tradable sectors.
Although no one should underestimate the great rise in our quality of life over the last thirty years, it would be unwise not to accept that our country's finances have always had this problem.
Especially the growth of the last decade was based on consumption and on an over-financing of the private sector by the state and the paradoxically low interest rates of the post-EMU era.
The weaknesses of the production model are reflected in the path of the current account deficit since EMU accession.
Where, therefore, the overall effort to transform the economy will be judged is in the package of incentives and disincentives that will be put in place to facilitate investment in new economic activities that will substitute imports or stimulate exports.
We will focus on the formulation and implementation of specific incentives that will highlight the prospects in the primary sector but also in manufacturing, or more generally in sectors where we have comparative advantages.
13.To emphasise the concept of innovation, which touches on all public and private sector activities and is embedded in the concept of productivity.
All studies show that technological innovation is the most important long-term catalyst for growth.
A Greece that needs to retain its "young minds" within the country and reduce unemployment levels by creating new jobs must direct its energies to a new, modern and high-quality business and research environment.
We propose policies to strengthen research, innovation and entrepreneurship,
such as tax incentives for the establishment of new businesses in high value-added sectors,
but also the gradual deceleration of tax rates for innovative start-ups, based on criteria such as job creation to change the economic map of the country and increase employment.
We should also target incentives to attract venture capital funds investing in Greek companies (Venture Capital funds), as well as
the creation of a National Venture Capital Fund through PPPs to finance innovative companies and, more broadly, to foster a culture of entrepreneurship and innovation.
To focus even more, regardless of memorandum obligations, on the concept of "acceleration", through the reduction of bureaucracy, the fight against polygamy, the increase in the speed of justice, the facilitation of licensing.
Despite the steps taken to modernise the public administration, much bolder steps are needed.
It is necessary to complete the administrative reform, with priority in the areas of coordination, strategic planning, evaluation of structures and human resources, finally tackling polygamy, ensuring transparency and full implementation of e-government to eliminate bureaucracy.
The country must have a public administration that is lean, efficient and pro-growth.
15.To exploit the country's obvious competitive advantage, the goods of the Greek land.
Adequate liquidity for farmers and livestock farmers needs to be ensured in order to achieve the modernisation of farms and the production of products with identity, guaranteed quality and high commercial value,
but also to implement a package of measures to reduce the cost of production of agricultural products (energy costs, fuel costs, costs of agricultural inputs, financing costs, feed costs).
We must also focus on linking agricultural production with tourism, promoting the Mediterranean diet, the operation of modern collective organisations
with the aim of intervening in the marketing of agricultural products and reducing production costs,
supporting and encouraging young people who wish to practise farming, and
supporting fisheries and aquaculture, which are a great comparative advantage for our country.
16. To ensure that the Greek tourism product takes its rightful place on the world map, focusing on policies to increase the tourist season and to improve the quality of the services provided.
We must also aim to link Greek culture with tourism and to promote targeted forms of tourism such as religious, medical and conference tourism, to modernise and codify tourism legislation and to
create a new "brand" for the country, repositioning Athens and its historic centre at the heart of the country's communication strategy,
speeding up Schengen visa procedures, and
promoting incentives to attract film and other international productions to the country.
17. Bring shipping to the centre of the country's development model.
We are committed to formulate policies for the further development of cruise and maritime tourism,
the conclusion of new bilateral shipping agreements, the simplification of passport control and visa procedures, as well as
the multiple use of ports for their tourist development,
investment in maritime education, the
creation of conditions for healthy competition in the shipping industry, the
promotion of incentives for the construction and operation of marinas.
18. Invest in our national infrastructure by promoting an improved institutional framework for the production of private projects,
fully electronic licensing procedures,
the codification of existing technical legislation, and
the rapid absorption of current NSRF in the infrastructure sector with transparency.
Big projects mean Growth.
Due to the crisis and liquidity constraints, they were discontinued.
However, the priority today is to accelerate the procedures for their full launch of their completion.
19. To improve the air transport project, in a country where tourism is the "heavy industry" for development.
This implies upgrading regional airports,
but also ensuring conditions of competitiveness, accessibility, high quality and competitive charges.
We also aim to maintain state ownership of networks and to use the institution of concessions for basic infrastructure.
Safety, reliability, speed and comfort of transport, as well as
environmental protection, are the basic guidelines of our railway policy, which is a
key vehicle for the country's transformation into a modern transit centre and combined transport hub,
contributing positively to the national economy,
the creation of new jobs, healthy competition and the environment, for the benefit of the citizen.
20. to contribute to the upgrading of the country's geostrategic role in the Eastern Mediterranean as a source of strengthening Europe's energy security and as a pillar for the transit of natural gas pipelines.
Also, to reform and update the RES penetration plan based on the new economic and technological data,
with a view to producing cheap energy and the lowest cost for the consumer.
Energy saving, particularly in the building sector, is the largest untapped national energy resource and at the same time a key driver of growth in the building sector.
Furthermore, our goal is to accelerate all procedures for the exploitation of national hydrocarbon deposits in the entire marine and terrestrial area of the country,
the exploitation of the national mineral wealth in a transparent and sustainable manner, as well as
the implementation of an operational plan for the immediate formulation of frameworks for land use and the zoning of professional and residential activities.
PASOK - Democratic Progressive Party | State - Public Administration - Local GovernmentState Public Administration - Local Government10 POSITIONS FOR THE STATE - PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION - AUTHORITYIntroduction
The Third Hellenic Republic was the longest period of smooth democratic life in the country.
Political and constitutional normality has already lasted for forty years, but its sustainability is being severely tested by the economic crisis, the
strengthening of the extreme right, the
fragmentation of political parties, the
spread of parasitic phenomena of populism and demagoguery.
At the same time, the institutional and functional structure of the State and the Public Administration is urgently needed to support a new economic model with productive depth,
more citizen-friendly and innovative entrepreneurship, free of bureaucracy, corruption and tax insecurity.
Effective decentralisation must be completed so that Regions and Municipalities can organise their development future on the basis of their comparative advantages.
PASOK-DPP proposes a new administrative system, a modern interventionist state of fiscal prudence and administrative competence, with the aim of restarting the country's development and productivity,
as well as the spectacular improvement of the everyday life of citizens.
In this context, the security of citizens is an inalienable public good and a fundamental priority of the rule of law.
Places
To demand a rule of law that protects the citizen from injustice and violence, always respecting individual rights.
The administration of justice must be made faster, more reliable and efficient.
The urgent need for decongestion in the administration of justice must initiate wide-ranging changes in procedural codes, while strengthening the logistical infrastructure.
Give an enhanced role to independent regulators.
To finally unify all public administrative control authorities.
Ensure merit-based procedures for the recruitment of civil servants.
Implement an evaluation programme, limit the availability and pay particular attention to the issue of mobility.
To substantially reduce the bloated bureaucracy.
To make the KEP an essential, functional and ultimately exclusive point of contact between the state and the citizens.
To institutionalise the further autonomy of local government by giving it powers,
but also the effective management of its resources through a system of contributory local taxation.
Dare to support the establishment of non-state, non-profit universities by local government bodies, or with them as the main focus.
We must, however, set a clear framework that will ensure meritocracy, both in the selection of teachers and in the possibility of young people attending the school, who will be judged on the basis of their abilities and not on the basis of their income potential.
To give power to the country's municipalities, which will not be taken away or limited.
For the delegation of new competences by the state to take into account resources and policy measures to ensure successful action.
Local authorities, in addition to the possibility of obtaining local public revenues, exercise the constitutional power to exercise the power of taxation.
This will ensure that limits are set and economic inequalities are reduced through a programme of redistribution of resources and revenues.
8. Enable local government to implement national programmes relating to education and health care, taking responsibility for both the staff and infrastructure required.
9. Introduce new forms of permanent employment, allowing municipalities to be staffed with well-trained personnel.
The selection of these staff should be carried out by means of competitions through the ASEP.
This new regulatory framework should include incentives for workers and
in any case not be linked to redundancies.
There should be a more direct and effective disciplinary law.
Establish that the use of local and national resources is the responsibility of local authorities.
The role of the state should be limited to economic support, and in particular to investments that enhance the comparative advantage of each region.
PASOK - Democratic Progressive Party | Social PolicySocial Policy10 POSITIONS FOR SOCIAL POLICYIntroduction
The welfare state in Greece is the collective acquis of the post-independence period,
with the PASOK governments as the protagonists.
The positions of the Progressive Democratic Party and PASOK, within the framework of the European Socialist Party, commit us to a progressive perspective at European and national level,
with emphasis on social cohesion, rejecting the logic that the welfare state in Europe is "finished",
due to Europe's lack of competitiveness in the globalised environment.
We are committed to a fair and effective state, with a clarification of the basic guidelines of social welfare.
PASOK and the Democratic Party aim to strengthen and redesign a modern, human-centred and rational model of a welfare state, which is an engine of social and economic development, investing in citizens, respecting their dignity and effectively addressing their needs.
PASOK adopts holistic and integrated policies for the prevention of social risks and for the individual and social well-being of its citizens.
Part of these policies should be targeted at vulnerable groups who are most in need of social support.
Our aim is to ensure social protection on equal and individual terms.
and integration of the most vulnerable and weaker sections of society
and the fight against inequality, marginalisation, discrimination, stigmatisation and social exclusion.
Places
To promote methods, techniques and practices for the provision of equal opportunities and the smooth social integration
or reintegration of population groups such as young people, the unemployed, people with disabilities, migrants, minorities, Roma, etc.
Emphasize social protection of children and their families, people with the inability to protect themselves (minors, the elderly, the chronically ill, people with disabilities, victims of violence, abandonment, abuse, trafficking or other illegal acts and crimes, etc.),
vulnerable people in a situation of crisis, social emergency, poverty, marginalization, social exclusion, etc.
Create centralised, uniform mechanisms for recording, monitoring, documentation, certification, coordination, evaluation, information and interconnection of welfare actions.
With municipalities at the centre, we develop social policies and support services for families and vulnerable groups at the local level, with the partnership and assistance of civil society.
4. Aim for optimal functional upgrading of welfare structures by using total quality management methods, scientific procedures and protocols, their horizontal interconnection and synchronized synergy and intervention.
5.Improve psychosocial rehabilitation services and actions of mental health care structures (hostels, day care centres, home care, etc.),
with emphasis on open structures and actions that are socially and locally integrated.
6. Ensure conditions for the well-being, dignified and active ageing of older people,
so that they are not treated inadequately and dismissively in terms of self-care, social care, health and insurance (strengthening structures such as KAPI, KIFI).
To be guided by respect for the diversity of people and the pluralism of social policy actions that complementary and individualised will support the self-reliant and effective social reintegration of vulnerable individuals and groups.
At the same time, to ensure the smooth integration of refugees and migrants into Greek society,
with a commitment to human rights and development policies.
Family, child and old ageTo create a mechanism for monitoring and evaluating the effectiveness of benefit policies, with an
emphasis on improving the situation of the beneficiary child and family.
Strengthen programmes to reconcile family and work commitments, childcare programmes and facilities.
Develop a national action plan to address the country's demographic problem.
Establish a specific set of policies for children living with families below the poverty line.
To complete the Unified National Programme of Procedures-Child Registry "e-pronoia",
for the full transparency and monitoring of the progress of the social rehabilitation of abandoned children, through the adoption and foster care procedures.
Redesign the primary actions implemented to provide integrated open or home care services
and avoid closed care, so that the elderly can live as active and self-sufficient members of society.
Generalize the Home Help Program to the elderly, insured and uninsured, disabled, extending it to include hospitalization, psychological support and human companionship.
People with Disabilities Ensure the implementation of a comprehensive national programme for the equal inclusion of people with disabilities in all areas of human activity.
Replace institutional policy with comprehensive deinstitutionalisation programmes.
Strengthen the disability benefit policy, based on the specific needs of the beneficiaries,
and establish a simple, modern and efficient system of certification and provision.
To support the Assisted Living Homes,
through the operational interconnection of the SYDs with the horizontal structures for the deinstitutionalisation of people with disabilities,
the generalised operation of the network of KEKYKAMEA and their day care and creative employment structures.
Vulnerable groups (refugees, homeless, Roma, poor, uninsured and people or families on the poverty line)
Implement the European Operational Programme for Food and Basic Material Assistance to the Most Deprived,
which aims to address extreme poverty by distributing material assistance and providing supportive.
PASOK - Democratic Progressive Party | HealthHealth10 POSITIONS FOR HEALTHIntroduction
Health is a top priority and contributes to individual and family well-being,
but also to the economic development of the country.
The goal of health systems in Europe is "Health for All in 2020",
providing adequate and high-quality services to citizens, without discrimination, barriers and pre-conditions, and with the
most efficient use of available resources.
To this end, radical revisions are required, which will strengthen Primary Health Care,
the management of chronic diseases,
the use of digital applications,
Public Health and Prevention,
and which will reduce social inequalities in the field of health,
through an organised network of pre-hospital-emergency and hospital care,
in the EHIC and the NHS, on a 24-hour basis.
In Greece, the NHS, created by PASOK, has contributed decisively, despite its shortcomings and dysfunctions, to the formation of a particularly high level of health of the population.
But the economic crisis has created new threats and added significant barriers to accessing the NHS,
especially for the unemployed and uninsured.
These problems should be addressed immediately.
PASOK, in the context of the coalition government and given the restrictive framework of our loan obligations, has already promoted important changes, with the creation of the National Health Insurance Fund (EOPYY), the
new integrated system of Primary Health Care (PEDY),
the administrative reorganization of hospitals,
the new procurement system,
the integration of computerized systems,
the implementation of a modern policy on medicine (electronic prescription, promotion of generic drugs, implementation of protocols).
At the same time, it has reduced waste and corruption and prevented painful measures such as the contribution (€25) for each hospitalisation.
PositionsTo formulate a national health policy, with bipartisan support, that will plan the necessary structural changes,
plan the optimal allocation of resources
and focus on comprehensive health care and care for every Greek citizen, based on the EU's 2020 targets.
Ensure effective and immediate access to a basic package of benefits,
including Primary Care, Hospital Care, Prevention and Health Promotion,
with adequate services, doctors and nurses in every geographical area,
with complementary cooperation between the public and private health sector.
We must immediately complete the new integrated Primary Health Care system, with the immediate creation of the institution of the family doctor in the 350 Health Centres and in every municipality of the country,
by utilising the existing general and family doctors and doctors of related specialities (pathologists and paediatricians) in the public and contracted private sector.
To reorganise hospital services and emergency pre-hospital care (EHIC-TEP-EMI), based on the health needs of the population of each region.
To create a modern and effective administration in the 80 hospital complexes of the NHS, with meritocratic criteria, transparent procedures and quality assessment.
To implement a single pay scale for the NHS, with incentives in employment and pay, and to
complete modern administration and financing systems, with the consolidation of clinical audit and administrative-financial evaluation.
To complete the modernisation and consolidation in the field of medicine, by ensuring the necessary public expenditure (which must not be reduced further),
by integrating the protocols in electronic prescription,
by introducing income criteria for co-payment, by promoting generic medicines, by
providing incentives to the Greek pharmaceutical industry,
by providing immediate access to the necessary innovative medicines,
by addressing those measures that have proved ineffective, such as the way the active substance is indicated,
the complex pricing system,
the caps on doctors and the prohibitive reimbursements from companies.
Ensure the financial viability of EOPYY, combined with the improvement of its organisational structure and operation.
The aim is to be the main social and public health insurance institution, which will efficiently collect contributions and subsidies through taxation,
in a single system that will ensure 6% of GDP for public health expenditure,
reformulating income-based participation with uniform contributions.
Ensure the immediate response of the health sectors of the individual insurance funds,
as well as the cooperation of the EOPYY with the General Accounting Office of the State, through the supervising ministries of Finance and Health.
Its regulatory framework will be complementary to the best, not all, private health services, again based on quality assessment.
To organise EOPYY based on tools of the new public administration,
by updating all citizen service points and electronically completing simplified procedures.
Contracts with all providers will be based on price, quantity and quality.
All Greeks are entitled to the electronic health card based on their AMKA.
To reduce socio-economic inequalities, with the main strategy being to offer a full package of services to our unemployed and needy fellow citizens.
In the context of this and the EOPYY, an attempt will be made to apply a special tax on tobacco products, alcohol, etc., complemented by similar contributions or participation of high incomes.
PASOK - Democratic Progressive Party | EducationPedia20 POSITIONS FOR THE EDUCATION. THIRDARY EDUCATIONEducation:
The framework of our proposals for Higher Education is determined by our choice that Higher Education must be a cornerstone for the new development model of the country's exit from the economic crisis on a path towards a post-memorandum Greece.
Higher education is a source of intellectual wealth, innovation and jobs.
Fiscal policy alone cannot lead an economy to growth conditions.
Spending on higher education is an investment in the country's present and future.
As long as the benefit is channelled to the final recipient: students and society.
It is obvious that the relationship of all levels of education with the labour market, and with the "market" in general, is determined by the social model chosen by the country.
Our proposal for Higher Education must be compatible with the social model to which we as the Democratic Party want to lead our country.
All of the above underlines the interdependence of the situation in Higher Education with the situation in other levels of education, as well as with issues such as the system of access to higher education (universities and TEI) and post-secondary education,
in line with modern European trends in the organisation of higher and post-secondary education, and the need for continuity in educational planning.
PositionsWe emphasize the extroversion and competitiveness of the Greek university and the productive utilization of university research.
We are therefore pursuing the Single National Strategic Plan for research and innovation, with reference to the single European education area, public and private.
To strengthen in every possible way the remarkable pockets of "excellence" that have managed to distinguish themselves despite the economic crisis
and to develop new ones by making use of the excellent scientific personnel that the country has at its disposal.
To record, based on the experience of the implementation of the law on higher education, the necessary corrective interventions in cases of dysfunction,
but also to strengthen and expand the regulations that have shown to have a positive impact.
The assessment of the first attempt to implement this new institutional framework can only take into account the reaction it met both during its legislative process with its many amendments and during its implementation phase.
To define more clearly the responsibilities of the central bodies of HEIs (Rectorate, Senate and Administrative Council)
and to clarify the relationship between Universities and TEIs and the conditions that must be met for an institution to be able to successfully fulfil its mission.
To create the conditions for the budgets of HEIs to be developed on a faculty-by-faculty or academic unit basis,
on the basis of cost and performance, by defining the relationship between Financing-Evaluation-Logistics in HEIs,
through programmatic agreements that will include, among other things, educational objectives and methods, links with the rest of the country's research fabric, etc.
6. Develop the use of electronic means to extend e-learning, particularly at postgraduate level, through its institutionalisation.
7. Continue with greater intensity the policies of extroversion of higher education institutions.
In addition to the four departments that have just been created and are aimed at students from outside the EU, with tuition fees and teaching in English (tourism, shipping, Greek language and culture),
we should seek to create more, since our institutional framework already explicitly allows it.
With the same logic and emphasis, we should promote postgraduate and summer departments of universities, which are addressed to foreign students,
cooperation with foreign institutions, with emphasis on joint programmes between Greek universities and universities of EU countries, on the
basis of which cooperation with institutions in Asia and America will be achieved, where there are many opportunities.
8. Ensure that the liberation of research from bureaucracy is implemented rationally and honestly, so that universities and research centres are self-financing without discrediting these policies.
9. Support the option that the number of admissions be determined by a joint decision of the Ministry of Education, the HQA and each University and TEI, thus regulating the issue of transfer enrolment.
10. to responsibly open the debate to provoke national decisions on strategic choices in the field of Higher Education, even challenging issues and dilemmas that until now society has avoided to address:
Do we insist on the "mass university" that admits about 75% of high school graduates?
Do we need a new balance point in the relationship between quality and mass?
Do we remain in the current model of "free education" in higher education,
without any discrimination and without income criteria, when the lower economic strata finance the education in universities of the children of the middle and upper economic class?
Do we restate the need to reorganise the higher education sector on the basis of the principle of "sustainability" and the needs of each region?
Do we decide that universities and universities of applied sciences should become fields and mechanisms for the redistribution of wealth in society?
Β. PRIMARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATIONIntroduction
The global economic crisis and its consequences require a bold adjustment of our education policy.
It has been historically established that whenever education is placed at the centre of policy, conditions for the country's development are created.
A key element of this policy must be the largest possible increase in funds, since the most productive investment for a country is that for education.
We emphasize the first levels of education:To give primary school and kindergarten the great importance they have as the foundations of the system,
while upgrading the quality of education in high school and upper secondary education.
The first few steps are very important.
They are the foundations of the education system, as in them: The first socialisation of children after the family.
Children master writing and form their relationship with letters in general, with the values of school and education (culture), with learning, with the value and usefulness of knowledge.
Children's relationship with education is determined for the rest of their lives.
As PASOK, we have taken important decisions on the initial training of teachers, the way they are appointed or recruited, the full weighting of changes in service (transfers, secondments, transfers), the drastic restriction of secondments outside school, the introduction of the second speciality, the introduction of the certificate of administrative and managerial competence, the introduction of an objective system for the selection of executives, the evaluation of educational work.
PositionsWe should give special emphasis to the continuation of the welfare state and the operation of compensatory education institutions, such as remedial teaching and additional teaching support,
which eliminate educational inequalities and act as a means of relieving and strengthening the weaker sections of our society.
Invest in the teacher, as the implementer of education policies.
The priority is to upgrade it financially and professionally, as well as to establish a system of continuous training.
It also requires the creation of a reliable system of evaluation of the educational work and the teacher.
3. To give a primary role to the teacher as a researcher of his/her own work, a participant in the process of change, able to reflect on his/her work.
Teachers are for all levels the main factor for the quality of education in general and for any change and improvement of educational data.
Teachers are the most important professional category in a society, in the sense that their work influences and shapes new generations, i.e. determines the future.
The prestige of teachers should be commensurate with the high responsibility and the utmost importance of their profession.
We focus on consultation with teachers at all levels, on the need to upgrade the status and position of teachers in society.
To change the content of education and the pedagogical dimension of the school.
To use modern curricula that provide education with a focus on people, the protection of the environment and respect for our cultural heritage, that meet the needs, aptitudes, interests and creativity of all students, that leave room for creativity and initiative.
Many of these goals are best served by the actions of the Social School, which shape democratic, active, healthy citizens who are in harmony with our multicultural society.
To regenerate the new primary school through concrete structural changes, with an eye on the generations to come and with the full awareness that any change can have a decisive impact on their future.
Our political decision is that all students in the country, without exception, and not only the privileged children, should participate equally in the knowledge society, in order to eliminate class inequalities in education.
We propose to consolidate the different types of primary schools into two, the all-day school (EAP), for sixth formers and above, and the classical primary school.
The aim is to complete all the learning processes at school, so that the bag remains there, to free students and parents from "home" teaching, to ensure time for play and for the development of students' special talents.
To provide high school students with educational goods and resources corresponding to the high demands of our time
, but also to cultivate skills, humanistic values, positive attitudes and behaviours,
to teach students how to manage knowledge and information, how to research, analyse and synthesise, to develop their emotional intelligence and social skills.
A student who finishes secondary school should obtain, through school education, a certificate of proficiency in internet use and language proficiency in at least one foreign language.
The Lyceum must be effectively detached from the system of access to higher education, in order to gain its educational autonomy.
Aim for a single structure of Vocational Education, after high school.
A three-year upgraded Vocational Lyceum, equivalent to the General Lyceum, whose graduates will have a substantial opportunity to access higher education institutions (HEI and TEI).
A post-secondary qualification year, integrated into secondary education, providing vocational rights at level 5 and making use of the existing infrastructure and teaching staff of VET.
All schools providing Vocational Education to be under the Ministry of Education.
To further promote lifelong learning processes and structures for citizens and workers.
We are based on the principle that Lifelong learning is a right of high social importance for our time, related to the need for the economy to renew rapidly changing knowledge, but also to provide citizens who did not have it at the age of 1825 with the opportunity to advance their lives and work.
This right must be gradually guaranteed by the state to all citizens of the country.
To transfer, after the adoption of the new organizational structure of the Central Service of the Ministry and the abolition of the Education Offices, day-to-day management responsibilities to the regional education services.
The reorganization of the structure of the regional services of the Ministry of Education, the greater autonomy of the school unit and its connection with the local community are our main concerns.
To envision a school environment that will not repel but attract students, that will contribute to the creation of active and self-motivated citizens, who will critically support the institutions of the state and not be pushed to marginalization.
The elimination of the building problem and the upgrading of the aesthetics of the dormitories can also work in this direction.
PASOK - Democratic Progressive Party | ResearchResearchResearch10 POSITIONS FOR RESEARCHIntroduction
Today, more than ever, it has become visible that the type of growth that focuses exclusively on low labour costs, on
widespread and pervasive tax evasion, on
ignoring ecological constraints, on
exclusive and privileged support for the state, on the
small contribution of knowledge and technology to business and economic activity, is not sustainable in the context of the euro area.
But neither is it socially desirable.
This realisation has become visible, but not fully realised.
We say that the country urgently needs a plan for productive reconstruction.
In order to take advantage of the results of the great sacrifices made by the Greek people and to begin the path out of the crisis, the management of public finances must immediately be combined with a strategy to stimulate investment, the restructuring of production, technological upgrading and the strengthening of employment.
Greece's place in the eurozone is secured through daily battles.
Only with a productive reconstruction plan can the Greek economy finally enter a sustainable path of qualitative growth
, consolidate its position in the eurozone
, stand in the context of increasing international competition
, and create the prospect of a steady improvement in living standards
, and create the conditions for social cohesion.
At the heart of the new growth strategy must be: the achievement of structural competitiveness, linked to increased productive, technological, organisational and social capacity, and the development of the economy.
and entrepreneurial capacities and to the development and training of human resources;
the development of new knowledge-intensive activities.
This process will be assisted by: new productive/business subjects that create quality and diversified products and provide services useful to citizens and businesses
more stable institutions and rules of the economy that facilitate and support productive work and productive, creative and innovative entrepreneurship
the combination of an effective and efficient public intervention with a dynamic and competitive business sector.
Positions1. Ensure the financing from public and private resources, Community, national, etc., of a critical mass of investments for the renewal and development of modern infrastructure,
for targeted investments of a strategic technological nature and for the creation of new jobs.
2. Operationalise the under-utilised "growth potential" associated with ICT applications, especially in the public sector and small businesses.
3. To use the new NSRF (2014-2020) for specific needs and priorities of the national productive reconstruction plan, through the radical simplification of its procedures, the more efficient and effective use of its resources and the effective management of its implementation.
4. Steadily and progressively increase research funding by adopting an aggressive but realistic binding target for increasing research spending, combined with the establishment of a regular research programme with specific priorities.
5. Ensure the necessary funding of educational institutions, combined with strategic planning, evaluation, accountability and effective management procedures.
6. Strengthen the links between higher education and research institutions and industry, production and the business sector in general.
7. To build an ecosystem for the development of knowledge-intensive innovative entrepreneurship, through the transformation of "economically useful" knowledge into sustainable and internationally competitive economic activity.
In the Greek academic community there is a large pool of potential entrepreneurs or business executives who can contribute to the creation and operation of new innovative ventures.
What is needed, however, is: the strengthening of mentoring and coaching institutions, as well as
the development of financial institutions focused on supporting new innovative ventures.
This process will enrich, renew and upgrade the business fabric of the Greek economy and create new and better quality jobs.
8. Promote targeted structural changes and other public interventions that facilitate the strengthening of broader value chains and corresponding "sectoral production ecosystems".
Such productive subsystems are: "energy production and management", "construction combined with energy efficiency and the corresponding building materials", "environmental industry (anti-pollution industry, material recycling, environmental services, etc.)',
the 'agri-food chain in conjunction with the needs of tourism', the
'information and communication technology ecosystem', the
'creative industries' (covering a wide range of activities from fashion, design and architecture to activities linked to art, culture and the use of digital technologies), and
'health-related services and products'.
We must put aside once and for all the practice of fragmented and disjointed measures, since the choices are not limited to the "what" but are also linked to the "how".
The new start-up should shape a system of public policies centred on knowledge.
It should also establish and implement stable rules for the functioning of the economy, embed a culture of evaluation and accountability,
strengthen the fairness, transparency and stability dimension of the tax system,
but also support productive employment and creative innovative entrepreneurship,
i.e. lay the foundations of credibility and trust for productive reconstruction.
The whole project should be socially supported by a new productive alliance, on the basis of a great socio-social and political pre-programme and political agreement.
We are looking for a new Communications System that will ensure the development of a new aspect of socio-social cohesion.
PASOK - Democratic Progressive Party | EnvironmentEnvironment10 POSITIONS FOR THE ENVIRONMENTIntroduction
The development models that on a global scale have exhaustively used fossil fuels as a source of energy and, at the same time, have shown indifference to the environment have led to the Climate Change Syndrome, with many obvious and unforeseen impacts on humans and nature,
such as: sea level rise, droughts, fires, depletion of water reserves,
tensions over remaining natural resources,
creation of hundreds of thousands of environmental refugees.
PASOK has recognised the need to address this major global challenge, presenting a pioneering and integrated policy for Green Growth and Energy, with emphasis on the promotion of Renewable Sources, the
consolidation of the achievements to date in this sector and the further development of know-how with export potential. //| Top issues are the saving and rational use of energy, the strict and systematic fight against waste, the
setting targets such as 5% of public buildings in Greece in 2020 to have zero emissions,
the systematic monitoring of air quality in urban centres and tourist areas.
PositionsIn the field of Environmental Policy, the central issue is the sufficiency and quality of water resources,
with specific objectives to complete and optimise plans for sustainable water management,
addressing water scarcity, and ensuring good quality and saving drinking water on a local scale.
Take action to establish environmental targets and implement protection programmes for rivers and lakes, as well as
to promote desalination on the islands using Renewable Energy Sources.
2. complete the system of sewerage networks and waste water treatment plants,
choosing appropriate techniques and technologies
and providing for the reuse and recycling of water for irrigation.
To guarantee systematic control of industries in terms of the treatment and disposal of their wastewater, as well as
the systematic promotion of the implementation of the Code of Good Agricultural Practices and organic farming,
in order to reduce water pollution from fertilisers and pesticides.
Implement policies for forest ecosystems based on prevention, management, restoration and infrastructure projects.
Indicative measures proposed for such a policy are: the preparation of Regional and Local Forest Fire Prevention Plans,
the timely financing and implementation of all necessary infrastructure maintenance works,
the use of satellite systems for locating forest fire outbreaks,
prevention actions with the participation of citizens and institutional involvement of volunteers.
It is also necessary to develop monitoring programmes for Wildlife Sanctuaries.
For solid waste, our aim is to manage it in an integrated way by reducing its production,
recovery, recycling, reuse of materials and energy recovery, in order to ensure the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions and the use of alternative energy sources.
The management of municipal waste is a major environmental and socio-economic issue and we are addressing it with an integrated policy at national, regional and local level,
which requires the cooperation of the public and private sectors,
with the prevention of waste generation and the
pre-treatment of solid waste before burial, in order to minimize the environmental and social impacts.
Adopt measures to facilitate the diversion of waste from landfills by encouraging recycling and recovery of waste to
achieve landfill diversion and
the total elimination of landfills.
Demonstrate urgent and effective care for the safe disposal of hazardous waste,
with systematic controls for the proper environmental operation of waste treatment and disposal facilities.
To adapt public and private space to a new balance, economically, ecologically, socially and aesthetically, based on the following principles: cities that are safe, pleasant and sustainable,
with the benefits of planning spread to all residents, regardless of their economic situation.
Respecting and preserving natural systems in cities can prove to be much more cost-effective solutions than using substitutes.
Take steps to create green cities, such as restoring older parks and urban green spaces, protecting and enhancing public spaces.
To transfer to the Local Authorities the management of free public spaces and green spaces, while at the same time giving these spaces an institutional guarantee through the General Urban Plans.
The camps that are still in cities should be transferred to the Local Government, exclusively as green spaces.
Move towards the creation of open green spaces, with the aim of increasing the proportion of green spaces per inhabitant by 20% within four years.
Greening of school buildings, mixed land use in cities, and sustainable mobility with designs that encourage environmentally friendly transport.
Emphasise the prevention of natural disasters, especially in the case of coastal and riparian areas,
and develop a programme to control emissions of pollutants and greenhouse gases at the local level, with specific targets and procedures.
PASOK - Democratic Progressive Party | Political SystemPolitical SystemPolitical System10 POSITIONS FOR THE POLITICAL SYSTEMIntroduction
The political system is the co-ordinated democratic organisation, within which the political will of the People determines and legitimises the political will of the State.
The dominant institutional pillar of the political system is the Constitution, which, assisted by the rules governing the functioning of political parties, defines the electoral system, protects credibility and regulates the funding of politics in a transparent manner.
The course of the Democratic Progressive Party over time has always been identified with a concept of democratic constitutionalism, which was implemented with the active participation and discrete intervention of civil society.
In this way, the Democratic Party and PASOK confirmed their kinematic depth and their living relationship with the sovereign People.
The economic crisis has brought new challenges to the surface, with the relationship between politics and the economy being the dominant one.
In these circumstances, the political system needs to strengthen its democratic and participatory character, expanding representative relations and the possibilities of intervention of active citizens.
Politics is a democratic and participatory right of the People, not a contest of interests or cynical exercises of power.
PASOK/GCP proposes a new roadmap for radical changes in the political system, which will culminate in a broad constitutional revision.
PositionsTo claim the political system of a New Post-independence, with the aim of greater participation of citizens and movements in the formation of the political will of the People and the State,
the more direct representation of society and the regions.
To implement a more proportional and fairer electoral system, which will ensure stable and sustainable governments,
favour the regulatory consensus of political parties,
guarantee transparency and the autonomy of politics, and
guarantee the meritocratic renewal of the country's political personnel.
We should establish the observance of the term of office of the Parliament and of the members of parliament,
to prevent early voting, which is a factor of political volatility and economic instability.
4.To dare to divide electoral districts in
order to minimise the dependence of candidates on opaque interests, political money and the media.
To adopt clear rules for the democratic nomination of candidates from the party base, to guarantee internal democracy and free participation of citizens.
There should finally be a law on the democratic functioning of parties, on the rights and obligations of party members and the responsibilities of party organs.
To abolish the partisan vacuum, which maintains and reproduces leadership parties.
Guarantee equal opportunities for candidates and parties during the election period, in
particular as regards access to broadcasting time.
Design an electoral system of more choices, so that citizens can more fully express their trust in parties and individual candidates.
To impose the definitive abolition of the regular direct funding of political parties.
There should only be a minimum amount for their campaign support.
At the same time, a fully transparent system of indirect funding should be established, for
example through the favourable tax treatment of contributions and sponsorships to political parties and candidates.
To put the policy and management of state power under the guarantee of transparency and accountability.
To make the "behind the scenes" of all state officials and public persons more effective.
To abolish obsolete privileges and challenging acquis regarding the responsibility of ministers and parliamentary immunity.
To strengthen the role of the Parliament, not only in the exercise of its legislative powers and parliamentary control, but also in taking decisions of major importance,
such as the participation of the Greek armed forces in peacekeeping or allied missions abroad, the
management of public debt, international economic relations.
To counterbalance the Prime Minister's omnipotence with a strong Parliament and the establishment of a Constitutional Court.
To decouple the election of the President of the Republic from the possibility of mandatory recourse to general elections.
To provide for a single electoral body for the election of the President, consisting of the Parliament, the Regional Governors and the Mayors, which will decide by simple or even relative majority
and will ensure the widest possible legitimacy of the top state office.
