18.Declaration of EEZ.
Accelerate the declaration of the EEZ so that we can exploit our undersea energy wealth.
17. Citizen security - dealing with illegal immigration.
A policy to restore citizens' sense of security and to stop illegal immigration: better border management, removal of illegal immigrants from urban centres, crackdown on illegal trafficking.
Massive repatriation of illegal immigrants with a common European policy already discussed with the Presidents and Prime Ministers of Italy, Spain, Portugal, Malta and Cyprus.
16. Promoting privatisation.
Promote privatisation beyond the provisions of the loan agreement. For example, the operational part of the railways, in which the French, Russians and Chinese have expressed interest.
The railways currently cost the state 800 million in deficit every year.
If they are privatised, this deficit can be eliminated and investments and new jobs can be created.
The same applies to port and regional airport concessions.
This will reduce the deficit and avoid further cuts in wages and pensions.
14. Offsetting of debts to and from the State.
Implementation of the necessary and fair set-off of debts to and from the State, which will also release liquidity for the market.
15. Utilisation of public real estate.
Immediate legislative initiatives for the release of public real estate.
Clearing of titles, determination of land use and building rates, so that investment plans can be made and development can begin.
The state can create land surpluses by legislating.
13. Enhancing market liquidity.
For liquidity: Immediately after the recapitalisation of banks, ensure liquidity in the real economy and in particular in small and medium-sized enterprises, which create 70% of jobs.
This liquidity will come from the "special liquidity facility", which will be created through the European Investment Bank (EIB), with a guarantee from unused NSRF funds and with funds left over from the 50 billion in bank recapitalisation.
12. Suspension of "Tiresias" for the last 2 years.
Suspension of the consequences of registration in Tiresias for those who have registered in the last two years.
11. Borrower relief.
Measures for borrowers: adjusting the way households repay debts to banks so that the monthly instalment does not exceed 30% of their disposable income.
As long as they have lost their job or business, they will only be able to pay interest for two or three years.
10. Protection of civil servants.
Application of the rule of 1 recruitment for every 10 departures.
Excess staff from merged and abolished public sector organisations will not be dismissed.
Workers will be subject to a special scheme for at least three years, receiving the basic salary and employer's contributions to the funds.
09.Time extension of public spending cuts.
The 11.7 billion public spending cut for 2013-14 - to be extended for two more years. At least until 2016.
So in the next budget in 2013, 3.5 billion cuts will be introduced, not 7.5 billion as would be the case if the programme had a two-year duration.
The extension of the programme will allow cuts to be made from waste and corruption, not from wages and pensions.
08.Reduction of all tax rates.
Reduction of tax rates: Reduction of the tax for legal entities - companies and businesses - to 15% for next year.
Reduction of VAT on catering to 9% (from the current 23%).
Reduction of the high VAT rate from 23% to 19%, the medium VAT rate from 19% to 9% and the low VAT rate from 6.5% to 5% (for the total tourist package).
Gradual reduction of the maximum rate for individuals to 32% (from 45% today).
07. End of the waste tax.
Replacement of the notorious haracios by a new extended RTD, fairer, more developmental and bearable for all.
06. Gradual increase of the tax-free allowance to 10.000€.
Gradual increase of the tax-free threshold from 5,000 today to 8,000 for next year and 10,000 for the year after.
05. No more pay cuts.
No more wage cuts in the private sector.
We disagree with the idea that even lower wages are needed for growth.
Bulgaria is not a "model of competitiveness" and development.
We support Collective Labour Agreements between employers and workers.
For the "post-energy" we ask for its restoration to the previous time limits, i.e. 6 months (from the current 3 months).
In the meantime, we will also demand that wages be frozen at current levels until a new agreement between workers and employers is reached.
04. Reduction of pending taxes.
Settling the successive tax burdens of the coming months.  2009 RTD of 2009, extraordinary levy introduced by Mr Papaconstantinou in 2009, 2010 and 2011 VAT and income tax with reduced exemptions for 2011.
Tax burdens will be reduced so that they do not exceed 25% of average family income
03. Unemployment benefit also for non-employed persons.
Extraordinary unemployment benefit for non-employed, self-employed or shopkeepers who have closed their shops and are currently not entitled to any benefit.
It will be financed by European funds that are left over from the European level.
02. Unemployment benefit from 1 to 2 years.
Extend unemployment benefit by one more year, to two years.
It will be financed by unallocated Community funds
01. Increase in low pensions, luxury pensions, special pay scales
Restore very low pensions, the luxe benefits and the compensatory allowance for livestock farmers to 2009 levels.
Restoration of special pay scales for police officers on active duty and - in the first instance - for air force pilots.
We'll get right on it for the rest of you.
