We are living in a time of rapid change.
Technological and economic, but also cultural.
Data is overturned.
Production relations are changing.
International trade creates new sources of wealth, but also of poverty.
The international media and cultural production transform consciences and perceptions on a daily basis.
These changes are shaping a huge accumulation of wealth, political power, technological capacity and knowledge.
The result of this accumulation in the present global system of capitalism is economic, political, technological and cognitive inequality.
The terrifying and largely uncontrollable power that is accumulating undermines the application of a system of law in world society.
It reinforces the law of the strong, it threatens parliamentary democracy.
Democratic political life is either subjugated or bought by big interests
or threatened by authoritarianism, fundamentalism and extreme ideologies.
Despite the enormous potential that humanity has acquired, potential that it has never had in its history, the current global community is unable to deal rationally and fairly with today's challenges.
Perhaps the biggest challenge today is climate change, which threatens to deprive humanity of important water resources and lead to the desertification of vast productive areas.
These are compounded by the challenges of the population explosion,
poverty and debt in the developing world,
pandemics, the energy crisis, the
growing migratory and refugee flows of populations,
the power of black money from the illicit trade in drugs, arms and people, and the
proliferation of means of mass destruction.
We, socialists and democrats, know that there is another way.
Humanity today has the potential to change this course of events.
There is no one way or the other.
If some were disappointed, it is because the ideas of socialism and democracy were abused by the great powers of the cold war.
If some do not always see an immediate result, it is because a democratic change in global governance is needed.
Something that the international socialist and progressive movement is demanding today.
If some people do not see an immediate result, they are unaware that our goal, the goal of the progressive forces, has growing allies and forces in the world civil society, youth, international organisations, progressive parties, people of intellect and art.
They are unaware that, at the local and regional level, major progressive changes and reversals are taking place.
We, socialists and democrats, know that there is another way.
We reject dogmatism and fanaticism.
We reject absolutism and flattening
and we know that we can make poverty a thing of the past.
We know that we can reverse the greenhouse effect.
That we can eliminate pandemics like AIDS.
That we can fight functional and technological illiteracy.
That we can integrate immigrants harmoniously and productively into our society.
We are inspired by and believe in our timeless values.
Democracy, solidarity, freedom, equality, justice, peace, culture and knowledge.
The challenge for us is to ensure that all citizens, and especially the younger generation, participate in the great political changes that humanity is called upon to implement.
For the younger generation, it is both their right and their challenge to shape their own future.
We socialists and democrats know that man can be the master of his own destiny.
We can civilize and humanize globalization.
We can make the market serve the needs of the people and not the other way round.
We must put states at the service of the citizen and not at the service of big interests.
We can liberate the forces of our societies from the centralised mechanisms of the state
or the concentration of power and wealth of the economic establishment.
We believe in an active civil society.
We believe in active citizenship as another realistic response to the challenges of globalisation.
It is the duty of all of us to equip young citizens with knowledge and capabilities.
Young citizens are being called upon in their own lives to confront the most subversive developments that humanity has ever seen.
They face greater and more difficult challenges than any previous generation.
THE TIME OF A NEW CHALLENGE FOR THE GREEKS AND THE GREEK WOMEN
At the dawn of the 21st century, Greece is facing enormous challenges: economic, social, geopolitical, challenges.
Rapid technological developments are changing the balance between the factors of production
and pushing for changes in the system of governance.
Inequalities in wealth and opportunities are widening.
International competition is and will be increasingly fierce in the region.
The rise of China and India is changing the comparative advantages of countries like Greece.
New sources of tension are emerging in the Middle East.
New migratory flows require new management policies.
Climate change and global warming are a major challenge for the global community.
In a rapidly changing and increasingly competitive world, the country needs cuts that will sweep away the rigidities of yesterday and the entrenchments of today.
It is, once again, the time of PASOK.
Because the change of Greece was based on our values and traditions.
Change was associated with PASOK and PASOK was identified with Change.
We need to provide convincing answers to regain the self-reliance of the political system,
for a new model of governance that will regulate a modern, decentralised, friendly and efficient public sector,
to signal a new development model
but above all to shape a modern welfare state.
PASOK, with Andreas Papandreou, turned a new page in the history of the country.
It gave the Greeks dignity and national pride.
It renegotiated the terms of accession to the EEC and ensured Greece's equal participation in the European Union.
It put an end to the division.
He ensured that Greece will belong to the Greeks.
It fought social inequality
and established the welfare state.
It reformed local government.
It brought the Greek periphery out of obscurity.
PASOK, under Kostas Simitis, gave the country security and economic stability
, leading it to full European integration.
Cyprus joined the EU.
Greece has undergone major reforms, acquired modern infrastructure,
joined the EMU, and
organised the Olympic Games with unprecedented success.
In this account, the conservative faction of the Southwest has nothing to counter.
Whenever he was in power, he undermined our progress and caused a total setback for the country.
In 1990-93 it lowered the standard of living of the average Greek, in a climate of unprecedented authoritarianism.
He plunged the country into debt.
He led Greece into disrepute.
Today, it is again pursuing a harsh redistributive policy, shifting the burden to the wage earners and the middle and lower economic strata.
It leaves inflation unchecked.
It undermines the welfare state by reducing spending on education and health.
It promotes blind privatisations that go against the interests of the country.
It has abandoned the policy of upgrading infrastructure and developing the region.
It has not implemented a single reform that promotes the interests of many Greeks.
It governs with a single compass, the settlement of interests.
Its economic policy transfers the cost of fiscal consolidation to society
and puts the country's growth prospects on the sidelines.
It is again leading Greece to retreat in its international position.
It puts the institutions to the test again and restores the most odious forms of authoritarianism and party rule.
The masks of the so-called "middle ground" have fallen.
This policy creates an insurmountable dividing line between PASOK and the conservative party.
It is unfair and ineffective.
It is tantamount to lost opportunities for our Homeland.
It harms the interests of the many.
It must be terminated as soon as possible.
PASOK can guarantee a change of course.
Our past is our strength.
It is our knowledge and our pride.
It is our self-criticism and our self-confidence.
Our work has changed Greece.
Our mistakes have taught us.
Building on our experience and its lessons, we are again ready, and more mature than ever, for the great responsibility of governance.
We have the will, the strength, the knowledge and the historical path that can guarantee a decisive leap for a Just Society.
OUR VISION FOR A JUST SOCIETY
Now, with George Papandreou, PASOK is giving Greece a new vision - a compass for the 21st century.
The vision of a just, open, free and creative society.
With dynamism, confidence, optimism and hope.
With equal rights and responsibilities for all.
With true equality between men and women.
With equal possibilities and equal opportunities for every citizen.
The vision of a Greece at the forefront of knowledge.
Our Programme is the sure path to our future.
It is, once again, the time of PASOK.
PASOK has deep roots in society and in the struggles of our people.
It has history and perspective.
It has a past, a present and a future, because it is always based on the same principles and values that marked its foundation.
This is how we are now charting our new course: We are continuing and at the same time renewing.
We remain stable and together we are innovative, subversive, pioneering, open to new things.
PASOK is a party of democracy and socialism.
Patriotic party, with universal values.
This is our identity-this is our guide.
The path to security lies through respect for human rights.
For PASOK, democracy is synonymous with freedom, and
its interpretation and application are non-negotiable.
Greece needs a policy that will propose and find sustainable solutions that will break the deadlocks.
A policy that will be based on the consensus of the whole of Greek society,
that will respect and protect human values and diversity.
Our Greece is the Greece of universalism and humanism,
precisely because it is driven by patriotism.
This is how PASOK sees patriotism today.
Because the solidarity of peoples does not abolish homelands.
On the contrary: it is racism, xenophobia and isolationist syndromes that nullify patriotism and trivialise it, transforming it into cheap patriotic hatred.
For PASOK, democracy acquires meaning and content only when it leads to a society of freedom and solidarity.
Today, our democracy needs a new, life-giving wind of meritocracy, dignity and trust
- a wind that will sweep away the distortions of clientelism and all kinds of mediation in the state to serve individual interests
and defend individual and social rights.
Our vision and goal is a just society, with redistribution of resources, opportunities and income in favour of the weaker social groups.
This is how PASOK saw and still sees socialism.
A Greece with social justice that gives knowledge, insurance, work to those who can, and
strong social solidarity to those who cannot.
With equal opportunities for men and women,
with new rules and balances between the public sector, the private sector and civil society.
We want a strategic, intelligent and flexible public sector that sets rules, controls their implementation
and provides services and goods when the public interest must be safeguarded
and equal opportunities for all citizens.
We want a strong and effective welfare state that prioritises investment in human capital,
guarantees health, education and insurance for all
and effectively supports the excluded and the weak.
The market, for us, is not the modern idol that is simply worshipped, operates unscrupulously and is never questioned.
It is a tool that generates wealth while applying state rules and standards on competition, consumer protection, the environment, public health, health and safety of workers.
For PASOK, the market also has a social responsibility.
We believe that the social partners and civil society should be involved, with specific responsibilities and rights, through organised social dialogue and new institutions, in decisions and their implementation.
Today, we want to raise the standard of living of all Greeks by achieving real convergence in incomes and quality of life with other Europeans.
Guarantee a path of stable growth with increased public and private investment.
To reduce inequalities.
To control inflation by putting an end to market promiscuity.
To increase employment and bring unemployment down to the EU average.
To breathe new life into the region.
We want Greeks to enjoy social benefits and protection comparable to the most advanced European countries.
With high quality public education and a drastic reduction in spending on para-education.
By radically upgrading health services to reduce the percentage that Greeks spend on private health services.
With real care for the elderly.
By reforming welfare policy to effectively support the weakest social groups.
With effective support for the unemployed and reintegration into the labour market.
Today, PASOK under George Papandreou is ready to take back the responsibility of governing
and to move forward with reforms that address the new problems of the economy and social cohesion - problems stemming from globalisation and competition, and from the explosive growth of technology and the Internet.
PASOK addresses and fights for and with the middle class
and the weak economic strata
by integrating in its development planning all healthy creative and economic forces that serve the public interest and respect the rules of competition.
PASOK addresses and fights for and with the young people of Greece
- the generation of insecurity that faces the future with fear in the dead-end environment created by the New Democracy government.
PASOK proposes and commits itself to a new development and social agreement based on and concerning the workers and the unemployed, the farmers, the small and medium-sized enterprises and the professionals, the young, women and the elderly, the people of art and culture, all the creative forces of our people.
PASOK's strategy and policies serve specific goals for the country and its citizens.
Our goal for the country:
We guarantee a Greece at the forefront of Knowledge and Technology
We guarantee a Greece with a strong identity in the EU and the world
We guarantee a Greece with sustainable growth
We guarantee a strong Greece with a just society.
Our goal for the Greeks:
Every citizen should have a decent job
Every citizen should enjoy public goods and services
Every citizen, wherever they live, however old they are, should feel secure
Every citizen should feel secure that their rights are respected
To achieve our goals and deliver on our commitments, a number of reforms are needed.
These reforms require clear explanations of their necessity, clear and measurable objectives, transparent implementation with measures to remedy their social impact, and
broad consultation in order to achieve the widest possible social and political consensus.
The political framework of our reforms will be based on PASOK's long-standing principles of social justice, equality and solidarity.
At the same time, all reforms and policies will incorporate a set of new institutions, procedures and functions concerning: Trust: society's trust in state institutions that must serve all citizens
Evaluation: People, functions and systems that serve the public interest.
Transparency: a prerequisite for all policies and measures
Quality: As a set of standards, norms and indicators by which public and private sector services and goods are defined and described.
Participation: as a central pillar of the new governance model based on organised consultation and informed decision-making.
Accountability: of all those who exercise power and manage public money
Greece needs a new big change.
Fundamental and sweeping progressive reforms are needed, with an eye to tomorrow and to the many.
The policies of the New Democracy come from yesterday and serve the few - that is why they are already bankrupt in the minds of the citizens.
PASOK, with its Programme, proposes, commits and guarantees:
A new model of governance, with democracy and participation, consultation and consensus.
An economy based on productive capital and highly skilled and capable workers.
An effective welfare state.
A radical progressive reform in Education, which will make Greece a leader in Knowledge and knowledge a force for growth.
A just society, giving jobs and security to all.
A strong Greece in Europe and the world.
Access to quality education at all levels for every Greek family
Ι. LEARNING FOR ALL - TECHNOLOGY EVERYWHERE
A new education system for the new era
In the new era of new demands, where knowledge is rapidly becoming obsolete, the organisation of work is changing and learning is becoming a lifelong process, we want education with values, based on the principles of humanism, democracy, solidarity, responsible and active citizenship.
We want education that gives pupils, students and adults modern knowledge and skills, and develops their creativity.
Our aim is to continuously improve the quality of education.
Our goal is to make our country an international centre of education, research and innovation.
We invest in people, their knowledge and creativity, their capacity for innovation, entrepreneurship and employment according to their aptitudes, interests, skills, talents and knowledge,
not according to their origin, social and geographical background, gender, religion or political affiliation.
PASOK guarantees the new generation and every family the free public education that the country needs today.
An education system based on quality and assessment,
where modern infrastructure, IT and new technologies will be a matter of course in schools and universities.
An education system that functions as a force for development and social cohesion, as a tool for redistributing wealth and not as a means of reproducing social discrimination and creating new exclusions.
An education system linked to society and production, giving our young people all the opportunities to become equal citizens of Europe.
We want Greek students to move immediately out of the bottom positions in international comparisons of student performance.
We have set a target that by the end of the first four years Greek students should improve their performance in the OECD ranking by at least five places.
Ensure universal access to 12-year education.
The status quo urgently needs to be reversed and broken.
A revolution is needed to bring education up to date and knowledge to the heart of society.
We need a public education system free from the shackles of statism and bureaucracy,
open to creativity, free thinking, technologies and the demands of the new era.
A truly public free system that drastically reduces the cost of education for the average family living in Greece.
PASOK guarantees a continuous increase in funding for Education, in order to achieve the 5% of GDP target at the end of the four-year period and the allocation of 40% of the 4th CSF to human resources.
From the first year, from the first budget that our government will draw up, this increase will reach one billion euros.
PASOK guarantees continuous training, objective evaluation, participation and an increase in teachers' salaries;
we want teachers to be protagonists in the effort to revive education.
An open school looking to the future
Early childhood education and education for all.
We make pre-school education a public good.
We guarantee it gradually for all children over 3 years old.
Internet and foreign languages.
Every pupil leaving upper secondary school will acquire, through school education, internationally recognised certificates of proficiency in internet use and language proficiency in at least one foreign language.
Modern infrastructure is provided everywhere, a laptop and free high-speed internet access for every student.
We generalise the use of Free Software in education.
National Programme Framework.
We are replacing the stifling curriculum with a national curriculum framework that opens up the scope for creativity and initiative in every school.
We set national learning objectives at each grade level
and enable the school to adapt at regional and local level to the needs of pupils and parents, the aptitudes, interests and creativity of all pupils.
We are changing the ways of teaching and organising learning.
We transform the classroom from a knowledge management tool to a creative thinking laboratory.
We are shifting the focus of learning from memorising information from a book to deepening and building knowledge by the learner himself, from different learning sources, and from different fields of knowledge.
We foster teamwork, initiative, creativity, imagination, imagination, aesthetics, individual responsibility and the understanding that rights come with corresponding responsibilities.
We promote language development, language learning, science, historical thinking, culture, sport and digital literacy.
We turn new technologies into an everyday learning tool.
Open school in close cooperation with parents and the local community.
We are building a dynamic educational unit, with flexibility, accountability and responsibility in the management of resources and the organisation of learning.
The open school functions as a local community with a distinct identity, able to respond effectively and qualitatively to the individual needs of each pupil.
It gives a role and involvement to parents, regional and local bodies.
He/she consults and cooperates closely with them on management and pedagogical guidance.
It has a library and access to electronic information sources and databases.
It becomes a place of education and information for the whole neighbourhood.
It offers opportunities for learning, knowledge acquisition and skills development for all, with all-day programmes, remedial teaching, additional teaching support, evening schools, teacher training programmes, parental guidance, lifelong learning, popular education.
It creates a framework for learning and working, with ethical rules, respect and dignity in the teacher-student relationship.
It is adapted and responsive to the needs of people with disabilities.
Its work is valued, enhanced and rewarded.
Day school is the general rule.
By the end of the four-year period, all-day schooling will be the basic type of school at all levels.
We are reorganising and upgrading all-day schooling.
We are introducing a new integrated daily programme, which organically integrates the lessons of the current morning school, language learning, additional activities but also preparation for the next day, remedial teaching and, more generally, the programme to support the morning timetable.
With creative all-day activity and care for the child.
The student has free time.
'His bag stays at school'.
The emphasis where there is a greater need.
Increased funding at the school level, additional incentives and targeted training for teachers, specific programmes of integrated intervention, at school and at home, where the need is greatest and in remote areas.
We are expanding the programmes of remedial teaching and additional teaching support.
Strengthen the role of parents in their organisation.
Their work is evaluated and improved.
A modern system of special education and training for children with disabilities.
Ensure equal participation in learning for all children regardless of their origin, mental or physical ability or other differences.
We are building a new public system of special education and training, integrated into our education system, oriented towards the future of the pupil, making use of new technologies and giving priority to vocational education and training for children with disabilities.
Intercultural education.
We support actions and practices with an intercultural orientation for all.
Based on the principles of intercultural education, we ensure the smooth integration of pupils with cultural differences (returnees, Muslim children, gypsy children, foreigners) into education and life.
Self-contained Lyceum with National Baccalaureate.
An autonomous educational qualification of educational and professional value certified by the National Baccalaureate, which is awarded after general and objective examinations in a selected number of subjects.
Autonomous Technological and Vocational Lyceum.
Increase opportunities and broaden students' choices through the reorganisation of technical vocational education and the creation of an autonomous Technical Lyceum.
Its students will be able to choose programmes and educational pathways to achieve their career goals, without barriers and barriers to entry.
The autonomous Technological Lyceum, on a par with other types of Lyceum, ensures that its students are equipped with vocational competence, general culture, lifelong learning skills and the possibility of continuing their studies in higher education.
Expanding the possibilities for horizontal mobility of pupils in the different types of Lyceum.
Strengthen the role and participation of regional and local authorities and productive bodies in linking the specialisations of the Technical Lyceum with the needs of local and regional development.
Initial training in IEKs is linked in an organised and effective way to technical and vocational education and training, offering further opportunities for professional and occupational development and security.
Changing the examination system in order to eliminate the need for tutorial preparation and meaningless rote learning.
To develop the student's personality with respect.
Young people who receive a National Baccalaureate will have a guaranteed amount in their name from the state, equal to the cost of their studies.
This amount will be directed to the public institution which will receive them.
HEIs and TEIs will set admission requirements based on the National Baccalaureate, which may differ from institution to institution.
The candidate will be admitted to the School or University, not the Department, thus giving him/her a wider range of choices.
PASOK will put forward alternative systems that ensure the above conditions for public debate.
Teachers of professional and social standing.
An improvement in teachers' salaries combined with an enhanced role, increased responsibilities, training and a system of evaluation of the teaching unit and its work.
Provide specific incentives to attract qualified teachers to schools that are currently considered unattractive due to geographical location or other circumstances.
Encourage their teachers to stay in the same school for a long period of time.
Strengthen the initial training of secondary school teachers with a postgraduate course of one year, with practical pedagogical seminars and training in the use and exploitation of new technologies in education.
We are upgrading the role of ASPATE (Higher School of Pedagogical and Technological Education) for the creation of education cadres.
Ensure that teachers are able to train and keep abreast of developments in their subject, update their skills and improve their pedagogical methods throughout their teaching career.
We are setting up specific continuing education programmes for teachers in technology education.
We organise specific training for education managers.
Public Higher Education leading internationally
We want autonomous and self-governing Universities and TEIs, with strong state funding, social accountability mechanisms and self-management - a model of transparency.
Aiming at excellence, preparing tomorrow's active citizens, linking with professional life.
The law on universities should be simple, clear, and based on the above principles.
It will therefore contain nothing more than the following: Each university will submit a proposal to the Ministry of Education and Culture for its structure, operation and objectives.
This plan should take into account best international practices and should address, inter alia, the way in which the institution is managed, the way in which the governing bodies are elected and the involvement of students.
After the completion of the new university organisations and internal regulations and the completion of the procedures for the election of the new governing bodies in accordance with these regulations, each HEI will propose to the Ministry a four-year activity plan, on the basis of which an agreement will be reached with the State on the financing of the university.
Public funding for universities should meet the needs generated by the agreed objectives.
The universities' proposal will include, among other things, measurable objectives against the achievement of which they will be continuously evaluated.
An Independent Evaluation and Accreditation Authority will be established to evaluate and accredit both state and later non-state universities and TEIs.
In particular:
Programmatic agreements with the State.
We want institutions with strong, flexible, dynamic management, operating with transparent, publicly audited organisations and internal regulations, with multiannual - mutually binding - programming agreements with the state, defining their own objectives, their own character, strategy, structure and operation.
We will encourage agreements with local and regional authorities to contribute substantially to the identity of the region and the development of the region.
We want institutions that are funded transparently and on the basis of the results of their operation on objectives that they have set themselves and agreed with the state.
Criteria such as the percentage of students who complete their studies in the expected time, the percentage of students who find a job within one year of graduation, the number of foreign students.
We will encourage, with incentives and without bureaucratic constraints, the mobilisation of additional resources from other sources in a transparent and ethical manner.
We will establish centres of excellence both in higher education institutions and in research centres in areas of interest to the country and the economy.
Documents on the Internet.
The University is the home of free thinking, research, creative teaching, research and learning.
The Palaeolithic fossil of the monarchy of one textbook has no place in it.
All texts will be available online and students will have free access to them.
Digital illiteracy of students is ended with free access to fast internet from the University and at home.
Higher education outward-looking in the world.
We want higher education with an international character.
We support the organisation of joint programmes with foreign institutions, the offering of educational programmes in foreign languages and Greek language courses for foreign students.
We will provide incentives to attract foreign students, opportunities and simple procedures for the recruitment and invitation of Greek or foreign scientists from abroad, incentives for joint appointments of scientists who excel abroad and in Greek universities.
Mobility in Universities.
We want institutions that encourage interdisciplinarity in learning and give students opportunities to build knowledge, develop modern skills, with increased freedom of choice.
Freedom of movement of students between different departments, disciplines and institutions, on the basis of academic criteria, and with the possibility to follow recognised periods of study abroad.
Internship programmes for students in public and private institutions in Greece and abroad and Career Offices for graduates.
Evaluation and social accountability.
Each University will be assessed on the basis of the objectives it has published and agreed with the State.
The State will evaluate and certify the results through an Evaluation and Certification Authority.
The Authority will also include recognised Greek scientists from the diaspora.
Higher education for all.
Financial coverage of student care for those students who need it.
The state will guarantee a modern system of financial coverage of student care in public education for all students in need.
We will extend direct financial support to wider categories of poorer students.
We offer them the possibility of part-time employment in the institutions they study in and allow part-time study to facilitate this.
The state will provide interest-free loans for students.
Expand opportunities for postgraduate study, with government scholarships for students with ability and need.
We will promote partnerships with private providers to provide cheap student accommodation for more students.
Libraries and the internet.
Enriched university libraries, with digitised textbooks, linked to each other, to the - digitised - National Library and international databases and journals, with extended opening hours (evenings & weekends), which are centres of learning and study and give access to scientific knowledge to the wider society.
Free access to fast internet from the University and from home.
Computer labs and high-speed internet access areas.
Electronic administrative service and from home.
Non-state public benefit institutions with quality and public control.
We are putting an end to the current anarchic landscape of private institutions.
We establish strict operating and examination standards for non-state, public benefit institutions and strict control of their operation by the Evaluation and Accreditation Authority.
Establish ethical criteria for the exclusive employment of teaching staff in public institutions and avoid secondment to competing non-state institutions.
In order to start their operation, we set specific financial conditions to ensure their long-term operation.
In order to ensure that their quality is constantly upgraded and to avoid speculative behaviour, we are setting specific criteria for the financing of infrastructure and research and technology from the resources of non-state institutions.
Opportunities for lifelong learning
National planning, with social actors, at local level.
Strengthen the provision of learning opportunities, facilitate participation, enhance incentives, improve the quality and effectiveness of lifelong learning education and training programmes.
With executive planning and coordination at national level, with decentralisation, mobilisation and participation of all social actors and enterprises at regional and local level, with appropriately trained staff.
Lifelong learning for the citizen and the worker.
We emphasise in-house training for employees.
We subsidise education loans for young unemployed people.
Strengthen incentives (tax and subsidies) for businesses to provide continuous training for their staff.
We strengthen and expand the Adult Education Centres, the Second Chance Schools.
We certify qualifications acquired through vocational training and other informal forms of learning.
We exploit the potential of distance learning.
We are responding to the strong demand for lifelong higher learning by expanding the Open University and establishing a second open university in a more flexible and modern format.
Our priority is the social groups most exposed to unemployment and social exclusion.
Our commitments to a new education system:
A public, efficient, excellent school that drastically reduces costs for the average family living in Greece.
Increase funding for Education with a target of 5% of GDP at the end of the four years.
From the first year, a €1 billion increase in education spending
Modern infrastructure, IT and new technologies everywhere, from school to university.
A substantial increase in teachers' salaries combined with teacher training and evaluation.
Obtaining a certificate of competence in internet use and language proficiency through school.
A laptop and free high-speed internet access for every student.
Extend full-day schooling to all schools in the country within the next four years.
A modern system of special education and training for children with disabilities
National school-leaving certificate after general and objective examinations.
For every young person who receives a National Baccalaureate, a guaranteed amount from the state equal to the cost of studies.
This amount will be directed to the public institution which will receive them.
Autonomous and self-governing Universities and TEIs, with strong state funding, social accountability, evaluation and control mechanisms.
All writings on the internet.
Free high-speed internet access for students.
Greece at the forefront of new technologies
Investing in knowledge means investing in innovation and new technologies.
Make innovation a watchword and a daily practice.
Today, in the global race of countries to participate in the Knowledge Society, the South-West has led the country to a real devaluation.
Greece is the 25th country in the ranking of the 25 EU countries in 2006 and 30th in the ranking of the 30 OECD countries.
Greece must and can take the lead.
It is our commitment.
Research, innovation, entrepreneurship: the engine of a strong and just society
We are committed to a horizontal "Innovation Budget" that supports the creation of an environment for the renewal of the Greek economy based on dynamism and knowledge.
We want universities to be able to compete creatively to secure financial resources for research programmes, to partner with businesses.
We are committed to increasing research funding to 1.5% of GDP (with 40% private funding), directing resources according to merit-based and competitive selection criteria, encouraging private funding of research, policies for the transfer and diffusion of technology and innovation throughout the economy and society.
Strategy of public administrations and public organisations towards knowledge and innovation.
We use public procurement and equipment to develop new technologies by committing a minimum percentage of the total budget.
We are creating conditions for the transfer of know-how to local communities and local economies.
The integration of eGovernment, the use of information and internet technologies in all public functions, makes the public sector an important factor in boosting the demand for more knowledge and knowledge-intensive products.
Business strategy towards knowledge.
We provide strong investment and tax incentives for investments that exploit new knowledge and are geared towards the use of new technologies.
Support the raising and allocation of venture capital to new knowledge-intensive business initiatives.
We support with financial and administrative measures new entrepreneurial initiatives to exploit knowledge by researchers, academics and/or research and academic institutions.
Mobilise private research and promote public-private synergies.
We provide strong incentives to encourage and promote business research activity.
Improve access for enterprises, especially small ones, to specific sources of finance (guarantee schemes, availability of venture capital, etc.).
Encourage networking between businesses and with knowledge generating organisations by creating common "technology platforms".
We are developing programmes to strengthen cooperation between higher education institutions and research and technology centres and small and medium-sized enterprises.
Autonomous, strong public research centres.
Strengthen public research and technology centres on the basis of scientific excellence.
We want research centres, like higher education institutions, to be autonomous, with strong mechanisms for social accountability,
and with mechanisms for evaluating and monitoring the results of their operation to ensure the continuous upgrading of the quality of research.
Promote collaborations between research teams and mergers of similar research units with a view to streamlining and creating strong national centres.
Their objectives, guidelines and role are clarified and their financing is based on multiannual programme agreements with the State.
Promote the participation of women in research programmes with specific quantitative targets.
Education becomes a place of continuous research.
It is linked to development and production.
Cooperation and participation of the private sector, local and regional authorities, under the supervision of the Universities.
We invest in frontier research, covering both basic research activities and research in areas that do not attract funding, such as the humanities.
We are improving the quality of postgraduate studies in universities, evaluating, strengthening and rewarding them.
We are promoting institutions of technological familiarity and friendship from secondary education onwards, because familiarity with scientific thinking begins at school.
Electronic Communications: access to everyone, everywhere, every time
Information and communication technologies can be the basis for a new development model
but also a tool for citizen participation, transparency and social accountability.
With a bold policy of transition to the new era, we want Greece to rapidly catch up and be among the first countries to use advanced e-services by 2015.
Objectives:
The rapid coverage of the whole territory with access to broadband networks while expanding the sources and content in Greek.
The transition to the era of integrated value-added services with the convergence of fixed and mobile telephony, high-speed internet and TV.
Universal broadband access to unified communication, information and TV services anytime, anywhere, with a single connection.
Equal access to public information using open standards and disability-friendly services.
In our view, advanced electronic services are a Public Good to which everyone, everywhere and at all times, must be guaranteed access.
Our priority in the first four years.
We are committed to the full implementation of e-government practices and the digitisation of the State's interface with the citizen, to the promotion of e-health and e-business practices.
The Greek public sector will support investments in all advanced electronic network infrastructures (cables, fibre optics, wireless networks) with European and national resources and with a focus on remote areas.
The Greek State maintains control of OTE with the necessary percentage, preventing the creation of an uncontrolled private monopoly regime.
It requires the upgrading of the group's management, its rapid adaptation to the new technological data and the fulfilment, with measurable indicators, of its strategic objectives in integrated electronic communications services in the new competitive environment.
Our policies aim to consolidate and expand competition in electronic communications
and to ensure by all appropriate means that all telecommunications service providers have competitive access to existing and new network infrastructures, with proportionate and fair pricing and the elimination of a number of distortions to the rules of regulation and healthy competition.
To this end, a single regulatory authority for network infrastructure and electronic communications services will be established in full harmonisation with European law.
At the same time, all the necessary regulations and licensing for digital broadcasting will be rapidly promoted,
issues on which the government of the New Democracy party has left our country at zero.
We protect personal data on the internet and users against malicious and illegal content, while respecting pluralism and freedom of expression.
Our commitments for Greece to be at the forefront of new technologies: Increase research funding to reach 1.5% of GDP
Horizontal "Innovation Budget" supporting the creation of a knowledge-based environment for the renewal of the Greek economy
Evaluation and programme agreements in public research centres - creation of "critical mass" and centres of excellence
Greece to rank among the first countries in the use of advanced e-services by 2015
The Greek public sector will support investments in all advanced electronic network infrastructures with European and national resources, with emphasis on remote areas
Universal broadband access to unified communication, information and TV services anytime, anywhere with a single connection
Increasing competition in electronic communications, ensuring competitive access for all service providers to existing and new network infrastructures
The Greek State maintains control of OTE with the necessary percentage, preventing the creation of an uncontrolled private monopoly regime.
Single regulatory authority for network infrastructure and electronic communications services
Licensing for the development of internet, mobile and terrestrial digital television services
Postal market
The Postal Market, in view of its full liberalisation, must ensure the provision of a universal service throughout the territory with quality standards to which the universal service provider will be committed on the basis of a contract with the Greek State.
The ELTA continues its modernisation, develops strategic alliances in the Postal Transport Sector,
exploits digital technology especially in semi-urban and rural areas, is
more effectively active in the Financial Sector
and is in a position to compete and operate successfully as a key universal service provider in the new competitive environment.
Fair taxation
II. A WEALTH-PRODUCING COUNTRY - AN EQUITABLE SHARING SOCIETY
Sustainable Development for a Just Society
Sustainable development is for us the development model for the European Greece of the 21st century.
Growth that unleashes creative forces, leaps towards the knowledge and innovation economy, links new emerging sectors of the economy with traditional ones, ensures steady productivity growth, enhances the competitiveness and extroversion of the economy, leads to the convergence of regions, the reduction of intra-regional disparities and the emergence of new poles of growth.
Sustainable development is the model for a competitive Greece with strong social cohesion,
for a Greece that is a model in protecting the natural heritage, where nature and history are treated as a development resource and not as a loop-hole, for improving the quality of life of Greeks.
We want our new development vision to express the aspirations of our citizens and to act as a catalyst for the most creative forces in society.
At the same time we are committing ourselves to the weakest social groups for a fair distribution of the "growth dividend".
Sustainable development:
It creates opportunities, possibilities and choices for the economically disadvantaged first, reduces social inequalities, strengthens social cohesion.
It implements the rule "Knowledge, Insurance, Work for those who can,
Strong Social Solidarity for those who cannot".
It links high growth rates to the creation of sustainable jobs, the drastic reduction of unemployment with a view to full employment, and an increase in the employment rate of young people, women and the long-term unemployed.
It brings about a new solidarity between generations by sharing resources, benefits and burdens fairly between them so that the sustainable prosperity of today's generations becomes the basis for the prosperity of tomorrow's.
It protects and renews the natural environment, ensures the sustainable management of natural resources and achieves "more and better with less".
It ensures a fair distribution of the benefits of globalisation and European integration, supports the weak and reduces threats and risks.
Investing for strong growth and competitiveness
Our new social agenda requires a dynamic economy that produces, innovates and creates wealth to redistribute.
High growth rates are needed - consistently higher than those of our EU partners.
We need growth based on investment, not on over-borrowing by households and businesses.
The model of competitiveness we serve is not based on cheap labour.
The priority is to increase public and private investment to upgrade the country's infrastructure and productive base,
to improve the incomes and quality of life of Greek citizens.
A key prerequisite is the ability of the economy to mobilise and combine traditional and new growth mechanisms and sectors, to
address internal structural weaknesses in the economy
and to achieve higher levels of investment in high performing sectors.
Private investment, both domestic and foreign, in business ideas and innovations that take into account the redefinition of the country's comparative advantages.
Public investment with qualitative characteristics in sectors that have a multiplier effect on the dynamism of the economy.
Investments under the 4th CSF which are concentrated in the programmes: Human Capital - Economy and Knowledge Society - Information Society and e-Government
- Regional Convergence
- Trans-European Networks and Infrastructure
- Green Entrepreneurship, Environment and Quality of Life.
The management of the 4th CSF will focus on "smart" programmes and actions that create high added value, especially in the Knowledge Economy and Human Capital
, and will ensure its decentralisation, its operationalisation, greater involvement of the social partners and continuous evaluation and monitoring of the final results.
Investments that complete the country's main road network by 2015, support combined transport and create a modern network infrastructure in general - transport, telecommunications, energy, financial, digital.
Our target is 3 million high-speed internet connections by 2010.
Investments that restructure the productive fabric of the country, specialise the production of quality products and services and create integrated production clusters (industrial and industrial tourism chains, agri-food, medical tourism, etc.)
The State must play a leading role in the development of our country.
We pledge that public investment will amount to at least 5% of GDP each year, while focusing more on areas that have a multiplier effect on the dynamism of the economy.
Our commitments to investment that supports strong growth: the State leading growth by increasing public investment to at least 5% of GDP.
Focusing the 4th CSF on priority areas: human capital, the knowledge economy, e-government, e-government, regional convergence, trans-European networks, environment and quality of life.
A fair tax system
Our key objective is to create a new tax framework based on simplicity, fairness, efficiency, transparency, transparency, stability, predictability, tax certainty and the minimisation of administrative burden and compliance costs.
We want the tax system to be able to meet the new challenges posed by the creation of the single European market, the globalisation of economic life, electronic transactions and the high mobility of capital.
Our immediate priority is to restore a sense of justice that is currently lacking, to foster a climate of confidence by reducing the various distortions in the system and to put an end to the situation whereby inconsistent taxpayers are rewarded with the paltry regulations that are occasionally enacted.
Α. FAIR REDISTRIBUTION OF THE TAX BURDEN
α. Personal Income Tax
A single, progressive, indexed tax scale that supports fair income redistribution without creating disincentives to work.
The tax deduction for family expenses as well as for family burdens should be calculated from the total tax resulting from the declaration of both spouses, in order to make the system fairer for low-income earners and families.
The taxation of capital gains realised on short-term stock exchange transactions is examined, with the possibility of offsetting losses on the basis of data from a number of European Union countries.
The existing brokerage tax is abolished.
Income from all categories of remuneration will be taxed at the personal income tax rate.
The introduction of tax incentives for individuals is for targeted social purposes b. Taxation of income of legal entities Profits
Profits distributed to individual shareholders will be taxed at the rate for individuals, with a deduction from tax of the amount withheld from the company as profit tax.
In any case, double income taxation must be excluded.
Undistributed profits of legal entities and partnerships will be taxed at a low rate to increase investment, modernise businesses and increase employment;
we will introduce tax incentives for research and innovation, socially targeted objectives and disincentives for polluting activities and greenhouse gas emissions.
A 5-year tax-free period for small businesses for young people in semi-urban and rural areas.
c. Indirect Taxation
The immediate priority is to reverse the continuing deterioration of the direct to indirect tax ratio in total revenue.
The main objective is to reduce tax evasion, simplify procedures and address the loss of revenue from smuggling as well as the revenue that may be generated by internet trade.
Immediate refund of VAT on exports upon confirmation and verification of the export.
d. Property taxes
Reform and consolidate most property taxes
and transfer the revenues to local government.
Reform the large property tax and increase the tax-free thresholds to remove injustices for small owners and to tax genuinely large property.
The revenue will be attributed to the local government.
Align property values of real estate with market values with a corresponding drastic reduction of property transfer tax rates, in order to avoid any additional burden on taxpayers in order to avoid market distortions.
Increase in the tax-free thresholds for the acquisition of a first home.
Improve and implement legislation for effective taxation of real estate of offshore companies.
Β. REDUCTION OF BUREAUCRACY AND COSTS
α. Simplification of Rules and Procedures
Codification and simplification of legislation, keeping it up to date and making it available online.
Reducing to a minimum the number of forms required and simplifying the way they are completed and submitted.
Gradually introduce payment of all taxes/fees/duties/duties directly by bank transfer.
Establishment of the possibility to serve citizens and businesses from other points outside the Tax Office
Gradually abolish the Code of Books and Elements and incorporate the necessary provisions in the tax legislation.
Establish procedures that help to resolve disputes between the tax authority and taxpayers quickly and fairly and avoid lengthy court battles.
Establishing information for citizens on how the administration manages the taxes they pay.
Campaign for tax awareness b. Organisation and Information Management
Integrated computerised support and extension of the services offered by TAXIS NET.
Interconnection of TACHIS with the information systems of the social security institutions and primarily with IKA, in order to reduce both tax and contribution evasion.
c. Change and reorganisation of the control system
In order to effectively tackle the chronic scourge of tax evasion and smuggling, a radical change in the functioning of the tax services is required, through a methodical, educational and merit-based approach based on modern principles of organisation and administration.
The new model of service organisation requires computerised support, stable fiscal rules, a simple and uniform procedure and management by objectives which are set, monitored and presented in a transparent manner.
Incentives for auditors and auditees will be introduced to combat both tax evasion and corruption.
Tax auditing bodies will treat taxpayers' declarations with confidence.
Their role will also be advisory.
The presumption of honesty applies to all taxpayers.
The checks shall be carried out in terms of actual economic activity.
At the same time, the penalties and the mechanism for their enforcement will be reformed to make them simple, clear and effective.
Introduction of an effective sample check by cross-checking all information (tax, customs, insurance, banking, etc.) on transactions in Greece and abroad.
Selecting auditable cases centrally on the basis of the application of a point system to identify groups or businesses with a tendency to evade tax.
Reorganise the financial crime services to catch large-scale tax evasion.
Better restructuring of the services of the Ministry of Finance in order to respond rapidly to the requests of citizens and potential investors.
Establishment of revenue recognition for all enterprises.
The use of modern information technology combined with simplified procedures and reliable sampling controls will facilitate the identification of undeclared income from all sources, in order to reduce irregularities to the level of the European Union average.
Our commitments to a fair tax system: A single, progressive and indexed tax scale for a fair redistribution of income.
Reversing the deterioration in the direct to indirect tax ratio.
Taxation of distributed profits of companies (dividends) as income of individuals.
Taxing undistributed profits at a low rate as an incentive to increase investment and employment.
Tax incentives for targeted social objectives research - innovation, environment
5-year tax-free period for small and young enterprises in semi-urban and rural areas.
Consolidation of most property taxes and their transfer to local government.
Effective taxation of real estate of offshore companies.
Taxation of capital gains generated by short-term stock exchange transactions.
Tackle tax evasion in a coherent way and reduce evasion and irregularities to the EU average by using IT and a reliable system of random checks.
Abolition of most fines and replacement by a "point system".
Establishment of revenue recognition for all enterprises.
Effective and transparent public management
It is the duty of a progressive government to ensure that taxpayers' money is spent on the quantity and quality of services.
Every euro of the taxpayer's money should be worthwhile.
PASOK has declared war on any kind and any trace of secret management.
Transparency is for us, and will be for our government, the first rule: everything in the light, everything in the public domain, everything known to the citizens and open to scrutiny.
The notorious special accounts will be abolished.
Any ministerial decision concerning the allocation of funds shall be published on the Internet the very next day.
The Greek state, in order to fulfil its strategic role in Sustainable Development, must start the changes from within itself, from its own efficient management.
It is a national challenge to demand that taxpayers' money is spent on the quantity and quality of services to the citizen, to achieve the maximum possible added public and social value from every taxpayer's euro.
Financing & Performance
The principle of "citizens first - taxpayers, citizens first - consumers of public and social services" will permeate all changes in the wider public sector and the New Public Management and will be the fundamental innovation of a new progressive governance in the 21st century
which will introduce:
public funding based on results in terms of quantity and quality of services
the establishment of quality standards and the measurement of the performance of public spending with appropriate indicators, in principle in priority areas such as health, education and citizens' safety
the cost-benefit analysis for each expenditure, the elimination of non-productive and socially unnecessary expenditure
the optimal allocation of funds and savings with a double benefit for the taxpayer-consumer and the public sector worker
greater freedom of choice for citizens - consumers of public and social services
rewarding through increased funding, greater freedom of action and public recognition institutions, bodies and services that achieve levels of excellence or exceed quality targets
removing disincentives to good and efficient work in the public sector.
all public institutions to have a balance sheet and a double-entry accounting system.
-the distribution of budget expenditure follows the decentralisation policy of the State.
Gradually, with the transfer of powers to the region and the municipalities, resources are also transferred, so that at the final stage there is a balance of powers and resources between the State, regional and local government.
We are betting on a public sector that is efficient for the citizens, while the conservative party in Greece and throughout the world considers it a necessary evil, leading it to shrinkage, underfunding, abandonment.
Programming Budget
We are committed to transforming the state budget into a "Programme Budget" by changing the procedures for its preparation, content, implementation and control of its results.
We will clearly set out in a multiannual budget our strategic priorities and programme objectives, in large programme sections, giving the budget the form of three-year "contracts".
The current formal legality audit is an independent audit of the relevance and results of public expenditure, with separation of auditors and auditees, recording and checking the figures on a national accounting basis rather than on a cash basis.
The new budget ensures administrative initiative and responsibility, budgetary discipline and flexibility in the reallocation of appropriations within limits, prevents the accumulation of hidden debts and gradually leads to a rational and efficient use of available resources.
The new Indicative Budget is accompanied by measures to increase transparency, objective information and confidence: The National Statistical Service of Greece (NSSG) acquires an Independent Function with high scientific and technological support and its administration is approved by the Parliament.
The principles are established and implemented gradually as the country's fiscal position improves: "borrowing only for investment", "no additional expenditure without provision for corresponding revenue, no cut in revenue without a corresponding replacement".
Evaluation - Accountability - Audit
Evaluation, accountability and control are becoming integral elements of management in the public sector at all levels.
Their procedures must be reliable, objective and ensure democratic participation,
good governance and high quality services
, and not lead to new bureaucratic complications and waste of human and material resources.
Public real estate
We urge the Greek State to acquire a coherent real estate policy,
to strengthen and regulate the real estate market
and to formulate a comprehensive development strategy for the business exploitation of its own real estate in
order to save resources from meeting its housing needs
and to raise revenues to reduce public debt
and to finance new investment schemes to support Social Security.
In this context, a mechanism of a high professional level will be created to coordinate all the companies and bodies managing Public Property
and to record, claim and register against trespassers, evaluate, classifies all real estate by type and market value and records it in the Electronic Real Estate Register
selects the properties that are granted under long-term lease contracts for the development of business activities, leased, sold, aredonated for social purposes, support new financial structures for the Public Housing Programmes, are offered to Public-Private Partnerships or are included in the portfolio of the Real Estate Investment Company which
will be attractively marketed to the domestic and foreign investment community, modern financial products for attracting capital, advise and disseminate the know-how of modern property management to insurance funds, universities and organisations of the wider public sector.
Public "Markets"
The State and any public and social funder will be able to purchase services for citizens from autonomous public bodies, from non-state non-profit organisations or from private and social sector enterprises on the basis of "contracts" linking payments to measurable performance and quality of service targets.
The public funder will in this way stimulate 'quality competition' and create public or semi-public 'markets' in areas of public and social responsibility.
In this context, the public sector and especially local government will strengthen the Social Sector of the economy and purchase services for citizens from a wide range of its enterprises.
Our commitments to effective and transparent public management: Abolition of "special accounts".
All public institutions with a balance sheet and a double-entry accounting system.
Publication on the Internet of any funding by Ministerial Decision.
Introducing results-based funding in terms of quantity and quality of services
Rewarding high performing institutions and services.
Converting the State budget into a "Programme Budget" in the form of a three-year "contract" to achieve objectives.
Transformation of the National Statistical Service (NSI) into an independent agency.
40-
We want competition in the markets to work to reduce the phenomena of price and speculation for the benefit of each family.
We will eliminate formal and informal barriers to competition and strengthen the mechanisms that prevent collusion in price formation.
The supervisory role of the State and the strengthening of the independent Regulatory Authorities and the Competition Commission guarantee respect for the rules of healthy competition in the market.
Opening up of closed markets - Speculation and collusion
We want to make healthy competition a vital market mechanism that rewards businesses that offer better products and new services at lower prices.
Our policies strengthen competition, open up closed markets for goods and services, with transition periods, early preparation of markets
and cooperation with social partners.
We are drastically curbing regulations that reduce productivity, increase prices and bureaucratic costs, and maintain a variety of cartels and oligopolies to the detriment of consumers.
In this context: The Competition Commission and the Securities and Exchange Commission will be immediately reinforced.
Formal and informal barriers to the entry of new enterprises into the market, particularly in the production and marketing of consumer goods, are being removed.
Unfair collusion in price formation irrespective of cost and demand and unjustified price divergences for the same products and services are eliminated.
On-the-spot inspections are stepped up, strict sanctions are imposed and leniency measures are adopted for companies that contribute to the dismantling of cartels and collusive agreements.
Ensure the coordinated and effective operation of the competent control mechanisms within a clear definition of their responsibilities.
Informed Consumers - active citizens
Consumer protection is a key priority of our policies, a
prerequisite for strengthening competition and the competitiveness of the economy.
A strong consumer movement supported by organised public intervention strengthens price and quality competition between firms and improves their performance.
We want competition policy to protect not only businesses but also consumers, to be strengthened and expanded in all areas of economic activity.
At the same time, we will ensure universal service in cases where the market does not serve rural consumers (e.g. arid lines, isolated areas, etc.).
In addition, our policies commit us: To apply rigorously all the production and marketing standards of the Single European Market for products and services
To apply product safety and quality certification procedures at all stages from the production plant to the shop shelf
and to strengthen the legislative framework to include products and services not currently covered.
To label products effectively so that consumers can easily identify the exact content and origin of the product.
Strengthen the Price Observatory, so that there is a transparent and objective system for monitoring prices in the market, useful for the consumer, the producer and the state.
systematically carry out specific information campaigns in cooperation with consumer associations
and include in primary and secondary education specific courses in economics including consumer education
To coordinate more effectively the operation of the competent control mechanisms (Ministries and local authorities) by clarifying the delineation of their responsibilities, by strengthening the EFET and completing its regional structure.
Provide administrative and operational support to consumer organisations by upgrading the Consumer Ombudsman Authority and the National Consumer Council.
Introduce legislation imposing severe sanctions on all forms of misleading advertising, with specific provisions to protect special categories of consumers such as children, the elderly, people with disabilities, immigrants, etc.
We focus on consumer protection for all products in the wider Financial Services Sector.
The development of the banking sector cannot be based on the misleading and exploiting of the citizen-consumer, on the tempting and pampering arrangements by the state.
PASOK will guarantee the effective protection of all those dealing with the wider Financial Sector.
It will guarantee the maximum possible expansion of competition, the prosecution of misleading advertising, effective control, the introduction of standardised contracts without suspicious "small print".
A new relationship between the state and the market for the benefit of the citizen
For us, the criterion for the state to remain or withdraw from the markets is one and only one: ensuring conditions that guarantee quality and affordable services to all citizens, whether provided by public or private operators.
This means safeguarding the public interest.
Utilisation of the investments and public property of the Greek citizen.
Healthy competition for the benefit of the citizen.
We reject and denounce privatisations that are carried out on the basis of revenue-raising criteria where markets fail, where the state monopoly is replaced by an even more uncontrolled private one.
Privatisation, shareholding and various forms of public-private partnerships are not an end in themselves but a means to an end, as long as there are benefits to be passed on to taxpayers and consumers.
In infrastructure and networks, since they constitute a "natural monopoly", the public sector will retain its regulatory role
while opening up to competition the overlying service providers, whether they are provided by the public or private sector, while safeguarding the public interest and the universal service.
Privatisation and Public-Private Partnerships
Public-Private Partnerships (PPPs) are an important development tool in a wide range of construction and services, provided that
a cost-benefit analysis is carried out in comparison with conventional forms of financing, that risks are properly managed and shared and that they do not become a mechanism for carrying forward commitments and systematically circumventing budgetary constraints.
Our commitments for a new relationship between the state and the market: strengthening mechanisms to prosecute unfair cartels in price formation.
Remove barriers to market entry for new businesses, particularly for consumer products.
Strong and effective independent regulatory authorities.
An institutional framework to strengthen the consumer movement.
Prioritise food safety by strengthening and regionalising EFET
Tackle misleading advertising and effectively protect all those dealing with the wider financial sector
Maintain a regulatory package of State control over infrastructure and networks that constitute a "natural monopoly"
by liberalising competition in public and private sector service providers.
Strong businesses in the global economy
For PASOK, healthy and dynamic entrepreneurship is a vital factor for wealth creation and prosperity in a just society.
Its value must be recognised socially, politically, spiritually and morally.
Entrepreneurship, innovation, initiative and taking reasonable business risks are organic elements of the new growth culture that the country needs.
It is therefore necessary to productively integrate the entrepreneurship dimension into the teaching of secondary and higher education.
Extroversion
The competitiveness and extroversion of the Greek economy means:
-increasing Greece's share in global, European and regional markets
-improving the import-export ratio
-increasing Foreign Direct Investment and more generally attracting foreign capital and know-how to renew the country's business structure.
Competitiveness is linked to increased labour productivity, the upskilling of the workforce, the
research-innovation-technology capacity of enterprises,
the combination of protection and flexibility in the labour market, the
quality, speed and reasonable cost of public services to enterprises and citizens,
the liberalisation of markets and the creation of a competitive environment.
Strengthening competition in the internal market is a prerequisite for Greek companies to succeed in competing in the international market.
Strong Greek Groups
The extroversion of the economy requires:I n-depth Greek Groups with multinational partnerships - with headquarters, research and financial support centres in our country -
which are repositioning their activities on the basis of their modern comparative advantages, attracting capital and know-how, diversifying their profits in our wider region, engaging in strategic partnerships, mergers and acquisitions to achieve the right competitive scale and becoming national and regional champions
improvement of the business environment in order to avoid the desegregation of enterprises, to facilitate the creation of new enterprises in "emerging" export-oriented activities
and to attract multinational enterprises that promote intra-industry trade, incorporate innovation and use their international distribution networks for their exports.
upgrading and strengthening the operation of the ELKE with a view to attracting large-scale investment;
- "Antennas" will be created in the embassies of important markets for Greece to support Greek businesses through the cooperation of the public and private sectors.
Facilitating entrepreneurship - Greece in the first class of countries for starting and developing a business, especially SMEs
We are confident that in five years' time Greece will be in the first class of countries for starting and developing a sustainable business, especially in the field of modern, dynamic, small and medium-sized entrepreneurship (SMEs),
with policies that: Socially, politically, intellectually and morally enhance the value of entrepreneurship, innovation, initiative and taking reasonable entrepreneurial risks for prosperity and progress in a Just Society.
They integrate more effectively the entrepreneurship dimension into the teaching of secondary and higher education, provide practical opportunities for pupils and students to share experiences with young and creative entrepreneurs, and promote patents and scholarships through the establishment of an innovation competition.
Implement in all areas of government policy the "Think Small First" imperative - "prioritise small business" in line with the European Charter for Small Enterprises.
They shall support through specific arrangements Women's entrepreneurship, Youth entrepreneurship and entrepreneurship of disabled people.
We also support self-employment and entrepreneurship in the '50 plus' age group.
Our aim is to close the gender gap and increase the number of Greeks of all ages who start and maintain sustainable businesses at least five years after their start-up.
They generalise the "one point of contact" of businesses with the public administration.
They reduce to one week the minimum time required to complete the procedures for starting a business.
They reduce at least four times the total cost of setting up a business.
They are making every effort to move Greece to the top of the ranking of countries in terms of the time it takes to issue permits for the construction of factories or office buildings, to connect them to electricity and water and to solve problems related to compliance with land use, urban planning, construction safety and environmental protection.
They drastically reduce the number of legal procedures, the time needed to complete these procedures and the costs of registration and transfer of property transfers.
Facilitate every creative citizen with a viable business idea and innovation to have rapid access to start-up and early-stage finance, either through the more competitive functioning of the financial market - conventional and alternative - and the capital market, or, where these are dysfunctional, through forms of partnership between the public and private financial sectors to share the associated business risk.
In this context, the role of the Guarantee Fund for Small and Micro Enterprises is being expanded and made more effective.
Similarly, financial support is provided for business investment in research and innovation to reduce the associated business risk and to provide access to European Investment Bank loans.
They provide State aid (tax and other incentives, subsidies for employers' insurance contributions, guarantees for financing, consultancy and IT services) in areas compatible with EU competition rules such as research, innovation, training, employment and, in particular, the development and networking of SMEs, as well as support for intermediaries providing innovation services such as incubators, technology and craft parks and new forms of financing.
They support small and medium-sized enterprises through the dynamic, competitive development of the Business Services Sector, such as the provision of advice and applications in information technologies, e-commerce that reduces the cost of contact with customers and suppliers, information on potential sources of finance, improved access to international markets, modern financial management, market research, accounting and legal support, advertising and the provision of operational support for businesses.
The market for services is organised by standards and registers.
They support Corporate Social Responsibility and promote on an annual basis "excellence" lists of companies that go beyond their legal obligations and excel in policies related to society and the environment.
They modernise bankruptcy law by supporting the logic of "second chance" and eliminating the economic and social stigma of failure.
Ensure the possibility of joint procurement of public works and services by SMEs and their collective participation in public procurement.
They support cooperation between Universities, Research Centres, established enterprises and new emerging small and medium-sized enterprises for the production and exploitation of research results and innovations on the basis of mutual benefit.
This effort must be supported by a financial system adapted to the new conditions of liberalisation of capital movements, so that Greece can become a financial "brain" in our wider region.
Our commitments to strong businesses: Reduce to one week the minimum time needed to start a company.
Facilitate access to start-up and early-stage finance through new schemes.
Develop the network of "one-stop services" for business relations with the public administration.
Reforming bankruptcy law to give a "second chance".
Incentives for businesses with the primary objective of developing research and innovation.
Organisation and control of the service sector for SMEs and micro-enterprises.
Collective participation of the media in public procurement.
Supporting Greek businesses in international markets with "Antes".
Strong Greek groups with multinational partnerships to become national and regional champions.
Stable, Dynamic Financial System
The sustainable, outward-looking growth of the Greek economy requires the stability and dynamism of its financial system in the new conditions of liberalisation of capital movements, the imposition of common European and international rules on money and capital markets, the rapid emergence of new complex products and services, new financial institutions.
Greece can emerge as the financial "brain" in our wider region.
It is necessary for Greek banks to further strengthen their competitiveness, capital adequacy and solvency,
consolidate their portfolios, modernise their risk management and risk diversification systems,
to expand and achieve competitive size through similar mergers,
to establish competitive costs by automating their processes and transactions,
attract and train managers capable of meeting the new requirements of internal and international competition,
offer a variety of investment options,
rationalise their profit margins
and create more favourable conditions for the financing of small and medium-sized enterprises.
The stability of the financial system is a prerequisite for its growth orientation, to the benefit not only of shareholders but also of the national economy, consumers and workers in the sector.
In this context we are committed to: To protect the consumer in all products of the wider Financial Sector (Banks, IFAs, insurance companies, mutual funds, brokerage, "alternative investors", leasing, etc.) to maximise competition,
effective supervision and the introduction of standard contracts for each category of services and products, so that consumers can compare benefits and costs, have an accurate picture of their total charges and make an informed choice.
The Postal Savings Bank remains under public control
and is evolving into a specialised micro-banking-oriented credit institution and fostering higher levels of competition in the financial system for the benefit of consumers.
The establishment of a single supervision of financial institutions, insurance companies and non-banking financial institutions based on modern rules.
To support the competitive, transparent and efficient operation of the Athens Stock Exchange and other capital markets, the
interconnection of the capital market with other neighbouring markets along the lines of the Athens-Cyprus Stock Exchange in order to mutually increase investment opportunities and expand trading volumes.
Establish the new small and medium-sized capital market, the so-called 'semi-supervised' market for small dynamic companies.
Our commitments to the financial system: Single supervision of Financial Institutions, Insurance Companies, the Stock Exchange, the Capital Market and non-bank financial institutions for a more dynamic and responsible financial system.
Public works as a tool for development
Despite dramatic progress over the last decade, the country's infrastructure continues to lag significantly behind that of the more advanced EU countries.
For this reason, public works continue to be a major challenge for the development of the country and particularly the region.
Public works should once again become the engine of growth.
The policy we will implement in the field of public works aims to: The award of public works contracts should acquire objective characteristics that guarantee transparency, healthy competition and simplicity of procedures.
Improve the public works production system to ensure that projects are completed on budget, on time and to the required quality.
Improving the environment, in particular through projects that will reduce the effects of global warming and climate change.
Improving the aesthetics of cities and the quality of life of citizens, with emphasis on projects to improve the residential environment and urban regeneration.
The exploitation and strengthening of the country's scientific and technical potential, both at home and abroad, for the benefit of the national economy.
The priorities for upgrading and improving our country's public works production system are: Changes and improvements in the institutional framework for the award of public works and studies.
Improving and simplifying administrative procedures in order to speed up the time taken to award projects and studies.
Changing the institutional framework for PPPs.
Establish a periodic programming of public works, including a regular presentation of their progress and the relevant procedures, so that the public can judge the effectiveness and credibility of the announcements.
Making use of European experience and creating an appropriate mechanism for direct and close cooperation with the Community institutions.
Our commitments on public works
Changes to the institutional framework for the award of public works and studies and PPPs to make public works a tool for development and regional cohesion.
Priority to the environment
III. GREEN ECONOMY AND GREEN CONSCIOUSNESS
The environment is a public good and is at the heart of our policy choices.
It is a development resource and a comparative advantage for us.
Our environmental policy, our new energy planning and our transport policy are the three pillars to drive a green economy.
An economy that is the basis for sustainable growth,
that creates new jobs
and protects the environment.
An economy that will ensure security of energy supply but also make our country competitive in new services and new products.
Only by combining the environment, extractive industries, energy and transport will we be able to contribute effectively to the critical global effort to tackle climate change.
Environment and spatial planning
Objectives: Greece a green country by 2020
We want the environment to be the basis not only for the protection of public health and the improvement of our quality of life
, but also for the development of the country and the strengthening of the competitiveness of the Greek economy.
For PASOK, the strengthening of eco-industry and green entrepreneurship are important priorities,
with the aim of increasing jobs.
Now is the time to create a new "green" consciousness in every citizen by filling the information gap and highlighting the positive results of collective action.
Environmental problems can only be tackled through the participation of all citizens and a qualitative improvement in the quality of the state function.
Institutional reforms
Creation of an independent Ministry of Environment, Spatial Planning and Housing, Ministry of Environment, Spatial Planning and Housing, with the protection and management of the natural and built environment and with horizontal action in all sectoral policies.
The new Ministry will also be responsible for the protection and management of forests and the coastal area.
A "National Sustainable Development Strategy" Plan will be prepared under the responsibility of the Ministry of Environment and Spatial Planning in cooperation with other Ministries and agencies.
Participating ministries and organisations will submit their own "Sustainable Development Strategy" which will outline the objectives and strategic plan for integrating sustainable development into their policies, programmes and operations.
The "National Sustainable Development Strategy" will be published every three years and the fulfilment of its objectives by each Ministry and organisation will be monitored by a special Service which will submit a comprehensive annual report to Parliament.
Establishment of a "National Council for Integrated Environmental Management in Public Administration" with the participation of Ministries, Institutions and Environmental Organisations in the direction of creating green awareness in the public sector.
Promotion and implementation of Environmental Management Systems throughout the public sector, implementation of green procurement policy, energy saving.
Reorganization and nationwide networking of the National Centre for Environment and Sustainable Development (EKPAA) and its transformation into an Environment and Sustainable Development Agency with the aim of supporting and coordinating research, providing technical support to the Ministry of Environment and Spatial Planning on environmental issues, controlling and monitoring indicators, educating and informing citizens.
Establishment of indicators for the environment at all levels of the state and especially in local government.
These indicators are simple and practical, such as increased greenery, recycling of rubbish, clean coastlines.
They will upgrade the TA, evaluate its work and engage all citizens of the country.
Utilisation and implementation of existing European Environmental and Quality of Life Indicators.
Reactivation and staffing of the "Corps of Environmental Auditors" for the implementation of Community and Greek legislation on the environment.
Codification of existing environmental & spatial planning legislation.
Institutionalisation of environmental education in primary and secondary education, information and education of citizens and social groups on environmental issues.
Spatial reconstruction - Residential upgrading
We are committed to linking spatial environmental and urban planning with the country's development planning and to
implementing a spatial policy that will reconcile the need for development with the imperative of protecting our natural and cultural heritage.
The first obvious measure is to implement the Plans that are drawn up and to draw up the Plans that are decided upon.
Linking spatial, environmental and urban planning as well as the Natura 2000 Plan with the country's development planning.
General Framework for Spatial Planning and Sustainable Development and Specific Frameworks for specific productive sectors (Renewable Energy Sources, Industry, Tourism) as well as for specific areas of the national territory (coastal and mountain areas, trans-regional networks).
General Urban Plans and Open City Spatial Urban Organisation Plans in all municipalities of the country.
Special Spatial Development Plans corresponding to specific areas of counties with particular characteristics of the natural and built environment, productive activity and special protection.
Establishment of Areas of Organised Development of Productive Activities, which introduce uniform standards for the urban planning of primary, secondary and tertiary sector employment zones.
Formation of Areas of Specially Regulated Urban Development for the placement of organised housing in accordance with the guidelines of the General Framework for Spatial Planning
"Satellite" settlements in the large urban complexes that will replace the unregulated urban extensions with the system of organised building, in accordance with the rules of modern architecture and urban planning, with a high percentage of green and open spaces.
The National Cadastre, the forestry register and land use throughout the country are completed.
An effective mechanism to prevent unauthorised construction and illegal land subdivision by fast-tracking land use plans in the extra-urban area.
Development of organised holiday areas with respect for the carrying capacity of sensitive island, lowland and mountain areas, with the aim of abolishing the current model of building for housing outside settlements.
Combined with compensatory measures: creation of a land bank and tax relief such as tax exemption on land not under construction.
Delimitation, enhancement and integrated management of areas of particular environmental and cultural importance (national parks, protected areas, Mediterranean landscapes).
Protection of all architecturally and urbanistically significant settlements and groups of settlements through the establishment of morphological conditions and building regulations, with priority being given to the maintenance of public infrastructure and the gradual undergrounding of electricity networks on islands, traditional settlements and landscapes of particular natural beauty.
Climate change - (see also "New Energy Plan")
The first priority is to save energy and reduce energy intensity.
Setting legally binding targets for immediate reductions in energy consumption.
Direct incentives to save energy in existing and new buildings and to improve the indoor environment of buildings.
We start with interventions in public sector buildings.
Specifications and incentives for a new generation of housing that will make use of our country's bioclimate.
Use of modern methods for taking into account environmental costs while taking into account social criteria, so that the prices of different energy sources reflect their overall social costs.
Exploiting the full energy potential of renewable energy sources.
Take all necessary measures for the development of Renewable Energy Sources (large wind, geothermal, solar thermal, photovoltaic and biomass parks).
Creation of adequate technical infrastructure (networks).
Clear rules for the development of RES and minimising the current extremely lengthy procedures for issuing installation permits.
Simplification of legislation and its adaptation to each renewable energy technology.
Promote the penetration of natural gas and renewable energy sources both in electricity generation and in the end-use sectors (residential and tertiary sectors, industry and transport).
Promotion of cogeneration technologies.
Air pollution
Systematic monitoring of pollutants with priority given to the most dangerous ones.
Regular information to citizens.
Promotion of combined transport and low-consumption cars.
Creating car-free lives in cities.
Financial incentives for group travel (bus and car-pooling) to and from workplaces in large organisations and companies.
Waste management
Reducing the volume of waste is a priority.
Economic incentives for packaging reduction
and composting of organic waste on a household or larger scale.
Incentives for reuse, material and energy recovery.
Review the solid waste pricing system based on the quantity generated per household
and introduce incentives for recycling.
Use of modern waste management, treatment and recovery technologies for the transition from landfills to landfills within a five-year horizon.
Addressing the immediate problems of Attica and Thessaloniki with the completion of the existing planning and operation of the approved Organised Waste Management Facilities (EWMFs).
Immediate removal and rehabilitation of uncontrolled waste disposal sites.
Establishment of new inter-municipal or inter-district waste management bodies to absorb the economic benefits of alternative management.
Rewarding local authorities that participate effectively and achieve the quantitative and qualitative objectives of alternative waste management plans.
Aquatic environment
Activation of all institutions involved in the planning and development of national water policy.
Implementation of the European Marine Strategy.
Definitive designation of marine protected areas with conservation of fish stocks.
Utilisation and support of the already existing actions for the designation of Marine Protected Areas, legal protection and management of the resulting designated areas.
Ship safety, reduction of ship emissions and immediate response to maritime accidents.
Reduction of inputs to the sea and other water bodies, from urban waste water, industrial waste and agricultural run-off.
Integrated management and treatment of urban waste water with the construction of the necessary additional infrastructure and its operation on the basis of inter-municipal cooperation.
Reuse of treated wastewater for non-sensitive uses.
Water is not a commercial product but a natural good in short supply.
It goes without saying that the public sector should retain control of the management of EADAP in order to safeguard its social and developmental role.
Linking crop restructuring policy with water policy to reduce the wasteful use of irrigation water and the rescheduling of non-water intensive crops in line with the revised CAP.
Abolish and abandon irrational and outdated water management plans.
Rainwater harvesting programme by household and by local authority, with emphasis on island regions.
Construction of reservoirs and artificial recharge of underground aquifers and through dams.
Recovering the cost of water use taking into account social and environmental data.
Reaching agreements on the waters of our transboundary rivers.
Natural environment - Protected areas
Reactivate the Boards of Directors of the local management bodies of protected areas.
Adequate staffing, funding and political support for the work of management bodies to protect and enhance ecosystems, natural heritage and landscape.
Reactivate the Nature Committee and link it to the planned Environment and Sustainable Development Agency.
Selection of specific areas, such as Schinia, Ambrakikos, Messolonghi, Prespes, the North of Greece, the North of Greece, the North of Greece, the North of Greece, the North of Greece, the North of Greece, the North of Greece, the North of Greece. Sporades, and highlighting them as models of different development.
Selection of specific rural areas and their promotion as models for alternative rural development.
Reforestation and actions in selected peri-urban forests and mountainous areas, such as Immittos, Parnitha, Penteli, Sheikh Sou
Closure of all non-compliant quarries that degrade the environment
and restoration of the landscape in inactive or abandoned quarries with priority in peri-urban areas.
Remediation of contaminated soils.
Green diplomacy
Strengthening the country's presence in the European network of environmental diplomacy that we established during the Greek Presidency of the EU,
as well as strengthening our country's international presence in the fight against climate change.
Exploiting opportunities arising from the management of protected areas and common environmental issues with neighbouring countries.
Cooperation in terms of expertise and empowerment of civil society on environmental issues.
Economic tools
Inventory all the country's natural wealth by creating the "Green National Accounts", an electronic database that is simple, usable and open to all citizens.
Monitoring changes using simple and practical indicators at all levels of government and especially in local authorities.
The National Statistical Service will coordinate the survey and the Agency for Environment and Sustainable Development will be responsible for the publication of the results.
"Greening of the tax system so as to shift the tax burden towards environmentally harmful activities and products and to phase out tax breaks and subsidies for them.
The revenues from these actions will be collected exclusively in a special account, the "Green Fund", and can be used either to finance environmental policy (specific actions and research)
or to reduce taxes on environmentally friendly activities and products and on labour.
"Green Funds will also be set up at each level of government (regions, prefectures, local authorities), the revenue from which will be earmarked for very specific environmental protection projects.
Introducing an environmental dimension in all incentive policies for the development of clean technologies in order to improve the quality of the environment,
create new jobs
and enhance international competitiveness.
Programmatic agreements, between government and business, to reduce pollutants and emissions.
Creation of "Green Certificates" which will be issued by the Ministry of Environment and Territory and will concern all activities that enhance the environment.
Environment and spatial planning - our commitments
Reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 25% from expected levels by 2020
10% energy savings in the entire building sector by 2020 and 20% for new construction over the next four years
Reduce water waste by 10% by 2013
Double recycling by 2011
Reduce waste to landfill by 60% by 2015 compared to the current situation
7% organic crops and 7% organic livestock by 2013.
100% increase of Greek quality products on the international market over the next four years.
Selection of 3-5 islands for the implementation of an integrated package of measures for sustainable development with maximum autonomy of these islands in water use, waste management, energy production.
Immediate staffing, financing and activation of protected area management bodies
Institutionalisation of environmental education in primary and secondary education
The new energy planning
Objectives
In today's world where energy is a prerequisite and a means to meet even the most basic needs of survival, mobility, information and generally the ability to participate in social and economic activity, access to energy goods and services is a basic right of every citizen.
Our central objective is to design a long-term energy strategy (for the transition to the era of non-conventional fuels) aimed at protecting the environment and ensuring the security of energy resources.
The adequacy of supply,
energy saving, the
gradual reduction of dependence on oil, the
change in the composition of the country's energy balance with greater participation of environmentally friendly forms of energy, primarily renewable energy sources, the
upgrading of our country to a strong energy hub, the
establishment and efficient operation of the regional energy market in South-Eastern Europe. Europe and the
achievement of low energy prices for consumers and businesses are key objectives of our new energy planning.
Electricity
In the long term, the supply of electricity to the country and the availability of sufficient reserve power in the particular Greek conditions of imbalance between production and consumption
, as production is concentrated mainly in the northern part of the country and consumption in the south, while demand is extremely high for only a few hours a year.
Modernisation of lignite-fired power stations in order to reduce, with a view to capturing, the greenhouse gases which are a burden on the cost of the plants due to the environmental obligations of the Kyoto Protocol.
Clean combustion technologies are introduced.
New natural gas plants in the Southern generation system which will increase the stability of the system.
The electrical interconnection of Crete is a priority.
These actions will reduce the economic and environmental impact of the system.
Multi-purpose hydroelectric projects.
Particular attention will be paid to minimising the impact on the environment by promoting small and medium-sized projects.
Decentralised distributed generation of small, modern power plants and hybrid systems close to the points of consumption.
Addressing the current distortions of the Daily Market.
Healthy competition in the electricity generation and supply sectors is enhanced.
PPC remains under public control and maintains its leading role in the new conditions of energy market liberalisation,
acquires high-level management, consolidates its finances and cost structure,
improves the quality and competitiveness of its services, exploits its real estate efficiently,
builds strategic alliances for its expansion in neighbouring countries through acquisitions of mines, power plants and participation in major energy projects.
Development of the networks of the National Interconnected System in order, on the one hand, to exploit RES
and, on the other hand, through its interconnections with the systems of neighbouring countries, to strengthen the strategic role of the country in the context of the South East regional market. Europe.
Purchase of petroleum products
The central issue in the petroleum products market is the competition deficit which is reflected in high pre-tax prices
and could lead to very high consumer prices in the coming years as the country increases fuel tax in line with EU Directives.
Harmonised practices at all three levels (Refineries, Marketing, Refineries) are tackled through the effective intervention of the competent services (Energy Regulatory Authority, Competition Commission, CCNR, Special Controls Service).
Management of national security stocks to ensure the adequacy and uninterrupted supply of fuels, acquisition of storage facilities to enable the import of products at competitive prices and access to certified fuel storage facilities of the State and refining/marketing companies.
Construction of pipelines to reduce transport costs.
Investments in the modernisation of refineries to continuously improve fuel quality.
Combating fuel counterfeiting and smuggling by developing in every region of the country Fuel Handling and Storage Control Centres (KEDAK) and electronic monitoring of the entire chain.
Subsidy for the conversion of the storage facilities of petrol stations to enable the electronic monitoring of their actual stocks.
The State maintains its strategic and developmental role in HELPE.
Natural Gas
The objective is to bring the share of Natural Gas close to the European average by 2020
by: encouraging the use of Natural Gas in urban and industrial activities by providing incentives (conversion subsidies, loan interest rate subsidies, tax incentives)
to reach the final consumer and substitute oil and electricity with multiple benefits in terms of energy efficiency and emission savings.
Expansion of Natural Gas networks and establishment of new Gas Supply Companies (GSCs) in new areas of the country.
Expansion of the use of Natural Gas in buses, refuse collection vehicles, public service trucks and private cars with incentives and creation of the necessary infrastructure.
Opening up the domestic Gas market to competition.
Maintaining public control of the operator of the national gas system (DESFA).
Renewable Energy Sources (RES) - (See also "Climate change")
The aim is to maximise the penetration of renewable energy technologies, equipment and applications in all sectors of the national economy with the active participation of consumers and local communities.
Meeting and exceeding the quantitative targets agreed in the framework of our Community commitments.
Support measures for research and development of indigenous renewable energy technology and operation of plants for the production of basic renewable energy equipment (solar heaters, photovoltaics, wind turbines, biomass and biofuel plants, control systems).
Commercial applications of Renewable Energy Sources of increased local importance such as hybrid RES systems for the electrification of small islands and isolated settlements.
Small-scale self-production/self-consumption of RES with strong incentives for the installation in buildings of photovoltaic roofs, solar systems for heating and air conditioning, geothermal pumps.
Implementation of the necessary infrastructure projects in areas of high RES potential and in particular the reinforcement and extension of electricity transmission networks.
Mineral resources
Greece has a variety of mineral resources (metallic minerals, precious metals, energy minerals, industrial, ornamental rocks, quarrying minerals).
The sustainable development of the extractive industry can and should be highly beneficial to the national economy, provided that environmental protection rules are followed.
In this context it must be ensured that: Social acceptance of the activity following public consultation and agreement of stakeholders.
Modernising the legislative framework, simplifying the permitting process
Ensuring enforcement of the law, in particular with regard to environmental impacts, with reliable, transparent and adequate control mechanisms.
The provision of compensatory benefits to local communities in the vicinity of which the exploitation of mineral resources is developed.
The new energy plan - Our commitments:
Long-term energy planning for security of supply, the development of energy systems and competition in individual markets for the benefit of consumers, the definition of the fuel mix, the use of domestic and especially renewable energy sources, energy saving and finally the balanced and sustainable development of the country's regions.
Upgrading our country to a strong energy hub
and maintaining low energy prices for consumers and businesses.
Securing electricity supply by modernising lignite-fired power plants and introducing clean technologies.
Integration of new natural gas plants into the power generation system.
Creation of competitive conditions in the electricity market within the national and regional market by strengthening interconnections and the participation of private power plants.
Maintaining public control over PPP by improving its services and expanding into neighbouring countries with equal forces and strategic alliances.
Eliminate the competitive deficit, concerted practices of fraud and smuggling in the petroleum products market.
Encouraging the use of natural gas and increasing its share to approach the European average by 2020.
Legally binding targets for the immediate reduction of energy consumption with incentives for existing and new buildings.
At least 10% renewable energy in total primary energy consumption by 2012.
10% reduction of the country's energy intensity by 2015.
Transport for competitiveness and quality of life
Objectives
We are committed to encouraging rational and safe car use
and a partial shift from saturated roads to alternative modes of transport for people and goods that reduce pollution and costs and increase safety.
Greece is the international transit centre of the wider region.
We guarantee the right of citizens, particularly in remote areas and islands, to basic transport and universal service.
We want Greece to be the world champion of ocean shipping.
Institutional reforms
Creation of a Metropolitan Body for the integrated planning and management of traffic in the Attica and Thessaloniki Basin that overcomes administrative fragmentation and conflicts of responsibilities, automatically collects information and informs drivers in real time about traffic conditions.
In other cities, the municipality or an association of municipalities and communities, as the case may be, draws up a local transport plan in which the urban transport network and its development are described on the basis of the existing situation and urban planning prospects.
Urban transport - Public urban transport with a social role
"Intelligent systems to limit car traffic during peak hours and to manage parking and parking.
Extension of the subsidy for mass private off-street parking.
Increase parking spaces in private residential buildings with appropriate tax incentives.
The information system is being upgraded so that every citizen in the Attica Basin and Thessaloniki can receive real-time information on the optimal travel route from any starting point to any destination for all means of transport and routes.
Complete the extensions of the Metro, Tram, HSTAP and Suburban Railway lines and implement the Interchange Stations.
Extension and proper operation of the bus and coach network for the whole route of all trunk lines and corresponding optimisation of the responses on all trunk lines.
The use of bicycles and mopeds, walking and the movement of people with disabilities is facilitated.
Third-age persons over 65 years of age shall be allowed to travel free of charge by public transport.
Management of traffic, parking and parking of special categories of vehicles (taxis, catering vehicles, vans, trucks, emergency vehicles) with an appropriate flexible regulatory framework and specific arrangements.
The introduction of traffic impact studies for all new urban planning or transport interventions and all new centres of productive, commercial and administrative activity in order to prevent chaotic mass tourism without adequate infrastructure.
Travel Management Programme for large employers.
Any company with more than 50 employees must report annually on the actions it is taking to reduce car travel to and from work.
Road Safety
Road safety is a national priority.
Creation of a Co-ordinating Authority responsible for the establishment of standards and the control of their implementation in all three road safety actors (road, car, driver).
Indicators to measure the final results of the programmes to improve the road environment, safe vehicles, driver knowledge and quality and the effective management of road accidents with the aim of drastically reducing deaths and injuries.
Traffic education is introduced in the pedagogical curriculum of primary and secondary education.
Railways - Freight transport
Modernisation of railway infrastructure.
Along with the completion of the PATHE railway, a new impetus is given to the entire regional railway network of the country (Peloponnese, Western Macedonia, Eastern Macedonia and Thrace).
Start and progress of work on the Egnatia railway (Kozani - Kalambaka - Egoumenitsa section) with a view to the completion of the Western Railway Axis.
The suburban railway is extended to Lavrio and Rafina.
Operation of a suburban railway in Thessaloniki.
The Alexandroupoli - Istanbul railway line is improved.
The public operator is upgrading its business in the upcoming new competitive environment.
Connecting the country's main ports, industrial areas and freight centres by rail.
Encouraging the mergers of small fragmented transport companies and integrated logistics management to ensure that goods arrive where and when customers need them, reducing the need for large stocks and the associated costs.
Maritime Transport and Shipping
Redesigning the network of coastal connections with the effective participation of local authorities and safeguarding the principle: "A ferry to all islands every day".
Strengthening healthy competition in coastal transport.
On the 'thin routes', regular ferry services are guaranteed by means of tenders and service contracts with specifications that allow for quality and fleet renewal, with a corresponding subsidy from the State budget.
Part of the costs will be sought to be covered by EU regional funds.
Re-establish the Maritime Transport Regulatory Authority (MRA) with a view to safeguarding the public interest, developing healthy competition, eliminating unfair tariff setting practices, protecting the consumer in general and ensuring the effective implementation of maritime safety rules and measures.
The executive role of the Ministry of Merchant Shipping is strengthened and its detailed intervention is reduced.
Create the conditions for the demilitarisation of the Administrative Services of the Maritime Sector (Ministry of Merchant Shipping, Merchant Marine Academies).
Modern business management of ports in order to increase their contribution to the generation of social wealth,
public-private partnerships to promote large-scale investments and upgrade the international position of Greek ports,
efficient in-port services (cargo and passengers) and the development of value-added industries and services in the land area of the port.
Support the successful model of reform of Greek ports promoted by PASOK.
Measures to stimulate the competitiveness of Greek shipping and enhance the quality of the Greek Flag.
Coordinated and coherent action by a maritime network to identify and analyse, analyse, promote and publicise all actions relating to shipping and all its synergies with the economy and society, from nautical sites and nautical sports and education to ports, businesses and culture (museums, maritime art, etc.), but also scientific research and technology.
An attractive system of maritime education for young people and responsive to current needs and conditions, integrated into higher education for officers and vocational training for other disciplines.
Facilitate the interaction between land and sea labour markets, through training and retraining and insurance arrangements, in order to increase the attractiveness of the maritime profession.
Air transport
Promote a modernisation programme for the country's airports.
-Ensure healthy competition in air transport and prevent the creation of monopolistic situations.
The Olympic Group is taking advantage of the new data, especially after the possibility of recognising the public debt to the national airline, to make a new start with its dynamic restructuring, the establishment of a single effective management, and the assumption of greater participation and responsibility by its staff, therationalisation of its network and fleet, the
development of its technical base into a technical and repair centre in the Mediterranean, strategic cooperation with an international air carrier, and the operational exploitation of its ground handling activities in order to achieve a definitive viable solution based on the options available in the new circumstances.
Rationalisation of the prices of the airport "Eleftherios Venizelos" to make it competitive.
Attracting foreign companies to international Greek airports.
Maintaining and extending the "barren lines" with compensation payment.
The regulation on the Single European Sky is promoted.
Modern transport - Our commitments:
Interconnection of regional and national networks and integration of the Trans-European Transport Networks.
Increase to 50% of the total daily commuting by public transport in the Attica and Thessaloniki regions and other large urban areas.
Give priority to the modernisation of railway infrastructure.
Guarantee the right of citizens in remote areas and islands to universal service.
Redesign the network of coastal connections by applying the principle of "a boat to all islands every day".
Ensuring healthy competition in air transport and preventing monopolistic situations.
Tourism 12 months a year
The tourism sector is the world's fastest growing economic activity.
Tourism is the "renewable source" of energy for the national economy
and our aim is a long-term plan for a new tourism policy that involves strengthening demand and measures to improve supply.
We want the Greek tourism economy to be able to respond successfully to the challenge of new competition from emerging Mediterranean destinations, especially in terms of prices,
and to exploit its unique natural and historical advantages as well as the new infrastructure of post-occupied Greece.
Our aim is for Greece to acquire a long-term tourism development policy that: transcends the classic "sun - sea" model of intense seasonality, with under-employment of hotel staff, low bed occupancy and consequently high costs;
offers a tourism product with a strong identity, recognisable and sustainable twelve months a year, in many competitive combinations of quality and price compared to other countries.
broaden the national origin of its clientele, which comes mainly from a few large European countries, with all the necessary publicity and promotional activities for the country;
redirect major investment to new areas of the country in order to stop over-concentration in certain regions and ensure balanced and high-quality tourist development.
attracting customers from the domestic market and offering twelve months a year to all Greeks in all regions of Greece.
On this basis, the leave policy, school trips and holidays, social tourism and the right to holidays for the third age group, farmers, are reorganised.
enriches the 'tourism portfolio' with new innovative quality products and, above all, promotes the whole range of alternative tourism twelve months a year: City tourism - Conference tourism - Rural tourism - Cultural tourism - Health tourism - Health tourism - Spa tourism - Food tourism - Sports tourism - Boat tourism - Educational tourism - Religious tourism - Nature tourism - Cruise tourism - Diving tourism.
supports small and medium-sized enterprises for the necessary investments.
It creates a favourable stable and transparent environment for tourism investment for investment in modernising facilities, offering quality services, increasing the use of the internet, facilitating networking and joint ventures and mergers and acquisitions to achieve competitive scale.
it brings out new internationalised firms with sufficient size and access to key foreign markets and stronger bargaining power.
offers organised tourist accommodation for sale or rent to foreign clients for permanent or semi-permanent residence in our country (especially after they leave work).
ensures as a public good the quality of food and local gastronomy, quietness, cleanliness, friendliness, access to archaeological sites, entertainment and good nightlife, functional city centre life, travel comfort and quality health services.
strengthen regional infrastructure.
upgrading tourism education at all levels, evaluating and certifying the quality of studies on the basis of international tourism standards in close cooperation with the tourism industry, ensuring high quality staff with appropriate higher undergraduate and postgraduate education.
achieve crisis management with speed and competence against unpredictable international economic changes, natural disasters, epidemics and terrorist acts.
fostering tourism education throughout society and the institutions.
It ensures the active participation and support of the local community and local government and the awareness of all stakeholders - public and private - that tourists also "vote".
design, layout and organisation of the conditions, with respect for the environment and the landscape, to develop tourist accommodation as a complementary infrastructure alongside the hotel infrastructure.
the protection of the natural environment and the quality of the countryside is a basic prerequisite for the country's tourism development
We also want to give all Greeks the opportunity to enjoy holidays with attractive quality-price packages.
On this basis, we will reorganise leave policy, school trips and holidays, social tourism and ensure the right to holidays for the elderly.
Our commitments on tourism
- A new tourism policy targeting services 12 months a year, broadening the national origin of the clientele to new markets,
enabling all Greeks to take holidays and an organised framework of cooperation between the state and local government.
Policies for youth employment and the unemployed
IV. THE SOCIAL AGREEMENT
A new development and social agreement at national and regional level
A job for everyone, opportunities for all
Objectives
We want to be judged by our ability to create conditions for employment growth.
To give the unemployed a job prospect.
Because unemployment remains the most important problem in Greek society and now affects almost every family.
Unemployment is the most extreme and savage form of social injustice - and that is why we are at open war with it.
The New Democracy has deceived young people, especially contract workers, has destroyed the labour market and plunged society into generalised insecurity.
Citizens saw the threat of unemployment as affecting everyone.
For us, on the contrary, policies that will provide more and better quality jobs, the
defence of the "European social model"
and job security that allows for greater adaptability, are our first priority.
Our central priority is full employment, creative work for everyone, for those who want it and can do it.
We establish a worker's right to training throughout his or her working life.
Through the ESC institution, we promote tripartite dialogue and Collective Bargaining as a basic prerequisite for the design of commonly agreed policies on employment, economic growth and support for the unemployed.
Immigrants with equal rights and responsibilities are integrated into the productive potential of the country with full respect for all legal obligations that define the rules of work and social security.
Policies
Prioritise active employment policies targeting and providing individualised support to vulnerable groups such as young people, the long-term unemployed, the elderly.
The high unemployment of women is a major source of inequality and poverty and we are committed to a set of horizontal measures that will drastically reduce female unemployment.
Strengthen labour market surveillance mechanisms to ensure that the provisions for fair and equal treatment of workers are implemented, by strengthening the Labour Inspectorate (Labour Inspectorate), in particular in the tourism and trade sectors.
Only when we ensure the safety of workers can we talk about productivity, adaptability and flexibility.
Strengthening social work.
There is a huge deficit in areas of social work in our country.
Sectors such as environmental protection, forest protection, school guarding, beach cleaning.
That is why we will create an institutional framework to strengthen social work.
We want there to be a right of choice between unemployment benefit, employment benefit and social work for special categories such as the long-term unemployed, large families, mothers of single-parent families, disabled people.
An increase in unemployment benefit.
We are committed to a generous increase in the amount and extension of the duration of unemployment benefit so that it reaches the level of the benefit of other European countries in four years, i.e. 70% of the basic wage.
It is a minimum obligation towards the unemployed.
Right to training.
We want the right of the unemployed to training and retraining to be fully guaranteed.
We invest very little as a country in workers, businesses invest very little.
We will call on the social partners to take responsibility for the training and support mechanisms for the unemployed, the OAED and the LAEK in the framework of tripartite participation.
We will design with them employment programmes to address the labour effects of industrial and productive restructuring in each sector or region of the country.
Policies for declining regions.
In today's open markets, we cannot always protect jobs.
But we can protect the unemployed and give them a perspective again.
With reconstruction programmes in declining areas.
With personalised support for the unemployed to enable them to reintegrate into the labour market.
Providing options: training, incentives for recruitment by businesses, subsidies for entrepreneurial initiatives and self-employment of the unemployed.
And by giving older redundant workers the opportunity to find employment in social work.
With income support, but not charged to the pension funds.
Strengthening collective bargaining.
The main vehicle of this restructuring process is Collective Bargaining and National Social Agreements, which fairly distribute the positive effects of the new adaptation of labour standards and improve the position of workers themselves, while promoting the competitiveness of the economy.
Collective bargaining and social agreements are the irreplaceable mechanism for the evolution and adaptation of industrial relations to new conditions, not the unambiguous acceptance of 'flexibility'.
Implementation of National and Regional Action Plans for Employment, linked to the Regional and National Development Programmes.
A proactive approach to the phenomenon of undeclared work, with the use of modern IT systems in the control services and in particular the Labour Inspectorate (SEPE), to improve the effectiveness of controls
and the introduction of incentives for businesses that adapt their operation to conditions of absolute productive transparency.
Modernisation of the OAED's job supply and demand system, with the creation of an interactive system with free access to businesses, citizens and all certified employment promotion agencies.
Our goal is "one screen, one minute, all job opportunities" in every part of Greece.
Radical restructuring of the OAED, with the implementation of the following changes: The public OAED, as a NAPD, is restructured and decentralised at regional level by the creation of Regional OAEDs, with full organisational, functional and financial autonomy.
The Regional OAEDs, as well as their central coordinating structure, are governed by a Board of Directors with equal tripartite representation of the State, Employees and Employers.
The Schools of the OAED are transformed into Education and Training Centres, open for use by Municipalities, Chambers of Commerce, Trade Unions and Enterprises.
Establishment of the possibility for enterprises to choose OAED schools or private KEKs for the training of up to twice as many people as they are going to hire.
The cost of training is included in the national action plans for employment
Decentralisation of the National Vocational Guidance Centre, with the creation of Municipal Vocational Guidance Centres and their accommodation in the OAED schools.
Passport to professional integration
Establishment of the Passport to Working Life which guarantees the following rights for all: For adults who lose their jobs, we implement effective and efficient policies for their reintegration into production
, such as: Transforming unemployment benefit into an employment and self-employment benefit.
Integration of those in early retirement into social jobs in municipalities, NGOs and enterprises.
Participation in Adult Education Centres to acquire new knowledge and skills.
Inclusion of the unemployed in vocational training programmes with an extension of the duration of the unemployment benefit during the time of their training.
For young people up to the age of 24 and for graduates of higher education institutions up to the age of 28: A special four-year integration programme for young people, for full-time and 12-month employment in all private enterprises.
For these jobs, insurance contributions, at a rate of 100% in the first year, 75% in the second year, 50% in the third and 25% in the fourth year, are paid by the State and from such other resources as may be found by agreement between the GSEE and the employers' organisations.
Effective and not useless and counterproductive use of the STAGE programmes, with subsidised jobs for work experience, mainly from private companies, with a clear definition of companies' obligations to transfer knowledge and experience, with in-house education and training.
Integration in public IEK or a premium of a certain amount of money for admission to training courses in certified private IEK.
Financial support for starting a self-employment activity.
Effective support for the Passport to Integration into Working Life, through the development of an integrated interactive supply and demand information system, freely accessible to all citizens and businesses.
Special financial support for local authorities, local authorities, local and regional authorities and incentives for businesses to strengthen social work in the fields of social care, environmental protection and the protection of our cultural heritage,
by creating jobs for the long-term unemployed, those close to the retirement age, unemployed mothers with three or more children, heads of single-parent families, people with disabilities.
Work for all - Our commitments:
Reduce unemployment below the EU average over the four-year period.
Establishing the right of workers and adults to lifelong learning.
A shift in work experience programmes (STAGE), mainly towards private companies.
Genuine personalised support for the unemployed.
Possibility of employment for 4 consecutive years for young people with full insurance and (staggered) payment of contributions.
Effective labour market surveillance to ensure that labour legislation and health and safety provisions are implemented.
On one screen, in one minute, all the job opportunities in every part of Greece.
A substantial increase in unemployment benefit to 70% of the basic wage within four years.
Taking responsibility for the training and support mechanisms for the unemployed (OAED, LAEK) by the social partners in the context of tripartite participation.
Reconstruction programmes in declining regions.
Establishment of Social Work for employment, the long-term unemployed over 55 years of age, unemployed mothers of large families, heads of single-parent families, people with disabilities.
Actively tackle undeclared work.
Equal rights and responsibilities for all migrants.
A modern welfare state
There can be no development and change without a sense of justice in society, without social cohesion.
Resources for the welfare state have increased significantly during the years PASOK was in government and have converged with the Community average.
However, the quality of services and the effectiveness of the intervention is not what it should be.
Taxpayers' money does very little to reduce inequality and poverty compared to other EU countries.
They give fewer opportunities.
And of course, with the governance of the Southwest over the last two and a half years, everything we have achieved is in danger.
We are committed today to the Greeks for a future-oriented welfare state.
With adequate funding, wide consultation, new social protection structures and services.
With ambitious and practical objectives, such as reducing the poverty rate after social transfers, fighting long-term unemployment, empowering vulnerable groups, equal opportunities.
With a safety net that prevents social problems, tackles their root causes and puts a brake on the social downward spiral.
With a sustainable public and universal social security system that guarantees decent pensions.
The reform of the welfare state is one of the big bets for our country.
And we will rise to the challenge.
No to poverty and social exclusion
In its thirty-year political course, PASOK was identified with the construction of the modern Greek welfare state.
All the legislation concerning the support of pensioners, farmers, the unemployed, the uninsured, the poor, people threatened by social exclusion, the elderly, immigrants, the multimothers and mothers of single-parent families have the political stamp of the PASOK governments.
But we are not satisfied and we will never be satisfied as long as there are poor, homeless, unemployed, unprotected and children who are unable to acquire basic education.
We do not accept anything that creates and reproduces poverty and, above all, we do not accept the existence of citizens and social groups who are deprived of the basic needs for a decent living.
Poverty is not just a social phenomenon.
It was, is and will be the political problem that reflects weaknesses and inadequacies in our political, economic and administrative system to ensure equal opportunities for all to be integrated into the productive and social fabric.
In the next four years, we have a duty and we will assume it fully, with full knowledge of our responsibilities, towards hundreds of thousands of our fellow citizens who are being pushed further and further into poverty and productive and social isolation, to implement a comprehensive framework of generalised policy measures and targeted actions, laying the foundations for the fight against poverty through an ever-improving system to ensure and guarantee a guaranteed level of decent living for all.
New poverty and new forms of exclusion need to be addressed with new policies and new structures.
We are committed to a comprehensive plan to fight poverty and social exclusion by: Targeted interventions, i.e. actions that tackle each form of poverty at its root.
Priority is given to those groups of the population which are the most vulnerable and which must be effectively integrated into the economy and society so that 'poverty does not produce poverty'.
Targeted interventions will give priority to poverty among children, the elderly, the disabled and groups facing multiple social exclusion.
Horizontal policies to combat the fixed determinants of poverty.
Strengthening access to the labour market, promoting quality in work,
protecting the family and the child,
reducing school drop-outs and the efficiency of education,
improving social security and health policies (our individual positions are developed in the relevant chapters).
Every three years the national plan to combat poverty and exclusion is drawn up with the participation of social partners and stakeholders.
Measurable national targets and priorities are set both on an annual and long-term horizon.
Opportunities for inclusion.
Each form of benefit or privilege support is inextricably linked to corresponding opportunities for inclusion.
Every allowance comes with an opportunity for those who can.
Opportunities for training, opportunities for voluntary activities, opportunities for social work and participation in social events to facilitate their integration into the economy and society.
New structures.
We bring social services close to the citizen who needs them.
Responsibilities and resources are transferred to the local level (primary and secondary).
The central state sets the framework and objectives of poverty and social exclusion policy: it establishes new institutions and standards, certifies structures, organisations and individuals implementing policies, evaluates and monitors.
In each municipality, civil society is activated in an effective way.
Incentives are given and conditions created for a flexible Social Intervention Network (SIN) with the registration and participation of all agencies, organisations and infrastructures of the state, local government, the Church, NGOs, scientific organisations, social partner organisations and individual citizens.
The social network combines support and active measures for the integration of excluded people.
The network is supported by the Public Social Service of the Municipality.
The actions of the network are financially supported by the Social Solidarity Fund (S.S.F.) created in the Municipality, where both the participation of the State and the Municipality and the participation of institutions, organisations, individuals or businesses that want to contribute to addressing social issues are deposited.
The organisation and extension of the D.T.K.A. in the large municipalities will be carried out after a dialogue with the KEDKE, the evaluation of the results of the implementation of the measure in the Kapodistrian municipalities and the adaptation of the country's welfare system to modern social needs.
Each year the social network transparently presents its budget and its work and presents the planning and objectives for the following year.
This will ensure coordination between all actors and a better use of resources, public, public and private.
Key policies
We guarantee a minimum level of Decent Living for every citizen living permanently in Greece.
With a four-year horizon, it is specified and includes: Inclusion of all those who are deprived of pension rights after the age of 65 and have an annual income of less than €7,700.
A monthly allowance and health and medical care services are provided.
The independent monthly allowance is €550 for a single person and €950 for a couple.
The responsibility for the implementation of the monthly allowance and health care needs is assumed by the OGA;
-The strengthening of non-monetary benefits through programmes such as 'Help at Home'.
-Heating allowance for low-income earners, graduated according to the regions of the country.
The guaranteed level of decent living is enshrined and further strengthened by complementary policies in the areas of employment, family, health, social security.
Disability: The issue of disability cuts across all policy areas.
Integrated planning and mainstreaming of the disability dimension in all policies, following dialogue with their representative organisations.
Establishment of compulsory education for children with disabilities.
Extension of the institution of all-day schooling to special schools.
Special law on employment and training of persons with disabilities.
Development and implementation of a programme of independent and sheltered living in the community
- deinstitutionalisation - with the establishment of the corresponding structures based on the specific characteristics of each category.
Inclusion of people with disabilities in the Minimum Guaranteed Income scheme and reform of benefit policy based on the severity of the disability, family support and the integration of people with disabilities into society.
Early diagnosis - early intervention, as the key to more effective rehabilitation and inclusion.
Upgrading of health services for people with chronic diseases such as diabetes, anaemia, nephropathy, etc.
Respecting accessibility principles in all projects, infrastructure, transport, services and the Information Society.
Creation of an institutional framework for the development of partnerships, within the framework of the social intervention network, between local government bodies and disability organisations for the creation of small-scale services (Day Care Centres, Counselling Centres), with the possibility for local authorities to introduce a special contribution fee.
Targeted Tax Reductions for people with disabilities and families with people with disabilities.
Targeted insurance arrangements for people with disabilities.
Adopting measures to support families with a disabled person in their family.
Reform of social security
Social security is a public social good that the State must guarantee for every citizen.
The redistributive, universal and public nature of the insurance system is its constant.
Its sustainability and adequacy is guaranteed by the state: these are the non-negotiable principles of PASOK, which still guide our policy today.
Tripartite financing of the social security system, no reduction in pensions, payment of the non-contributory part, the minimum pension from the state budget - these are our guarantees.
Our objectives:
To instil a sense of security and certainty among citizens about the present and future of the system
To create a new reserve to safeguard future generations.
The application of existing legislation as a minimum condition for the creation of an insurance consciousness and a solid financial basis.
Modernising the operation of the Funds, making better use of their resources and improving the quality of the services provided.
The extension of retirement age with incentives for voluntary stay at work.
Addressing and remedying injustices and distortions that lead to insurance avoidance.
The separation of welfare benefits from insurance benefits.
The improvement of pensions and other benefits, not only at the level of low pensioners but also at the level of middle level pensions.
Strengthening the contributory relationship between contributions and benefits.
Policies
Under the Minimum Guaranteed Level of Decent Living: for OGA pensioners, a basic pension of 950 euros for a couple and 550 euros for a single person.
Strengthening the contributory main pension of the O.G.A.
For the pensioners of the I.K.A., O.A.E.E. and other funds, reform of the institution of the E.K.A.S., based on new social needs and aiming at its transformation into a basic pension.
In this direction, and as a first step requiring a transitional period of ten years, we are committed to broadening and updating the income criteria in order to cover some 300 thousand additional pensioners.
In any case, with or without the ESSP, the lower pensions granted to pensioners in the funds will exceed the amount paid to the uninsured.
In any case, with or without the ESSP, the lower pensions granted to pensioners in all other funds will exceed the €550 paid to the uninsured.
On the basis of the following commitments, we set the framework for strengthening and transforming public social security and we commit ourselves to repealing the legislative provisions passed by the New Democracy government that run counter to this framework.
We are committed to the respect of the pension limits and conditions established by Law 3029/02, as well as to the State's continuous response to its obligations under the tripartite financing.
Promote immediately the procedures for the consolidation of the Main Insurance Funds by creating three groups of funds (Employees - Self-employed - Farmers).
Consolidation of the provident funds into 5-6 funds.
Creation of a single mechanism for the establishment and collection of contributions.
Complete in two years the computerisation of all Funds.
Creation of modern and flexible structures for the financial management of the funds' reserves on the model of the EDEKT-OTE, which was set up by the PASOK government and whose high returns confirm its efficiency.
Creation of new modern mechanisms and structures for the financial exploitation of the real estate assets of all funds.
Establishment of a health and social security card.
It will be the citizen's ticket to access and be informed by services.
Separation of welfare and insurance benefits.
The monitoring of the progress of the social security system and the corresponding expenditure requires a clear separation from the welfare benefits, which the State must finance.
Strengthening the contributory relationship between contributions and benefits.
More days of insurance and more contributions should necessarily lead to a larger pension.
No day of insurance should be considered "lost".
Improvement in the succession scheme.
The mobility that exists in the labour market, but also the injustices created by the current succession insurance scheme, require its reform and improvement.
Extension of insurance life.
Remaining in employment after the acquisition of pension rights should be a right for every worker.
At the same time, incentives for this stay should be introduced, with an increase in the pension.
Reform of the regulation on heavy and unhealthy occupations.
The reform and updating of the Heavy and Unhealthy Occupations Regulation should aim at and be subject to equal treatment of public and private sector workers,
and to the assessment of current working conditions through scientific evidence of the burden on workers in various occupations.
Utilisation of the assets of the funds -- Establishment of a National Solidarity Fund.
A National Solidarity Fund for Generations is created, which will be locked up for at least a decade so that its guaranteed returns will provide additional support from the public sector to the social security system in its most difficult phase.
This is an "investment fund" with the most modern and transparent international financial standards, which will be funded in principle by the revenues from the investment exploitation of public real estate, the shareholdings of public enterprises and organisations, the licensing of electronic communications and other resources depending on the economic situation.
The National Solidarity Fund increases national insurance savings - investment, distributes the burden of insurance more equitably between generations, acts as a stabilising capital against economic fluctuations and in practice amounts to a drastic reduction of the "invisible" public debt from the uncovered insurance liabilities of the future.
Uniform conditions and procedures for invalidity pensions.
The consortium of the 4 major sectors (I.K.A.- E.T.A.M., O.G.A., O.A.E.E., O.P.A.D.) creates single centres in Athens and the region for the assessment and evaluation of the disability rate, with uniform, transparent and objective rules and procedures.
Development of complementary systems.
Encourage the establishment and operation of occupational funds, through collective labour agreements, with a view to providing additional supplementary benefits.
However, supplementary schemes do not replace the public system and do not limit the obligations and guarantees of the State.
Establishment of a central "Insurance Advisor" service supervised by the Ministry of Employment and Social Protection, with the aim of providing citizens with correct and accurate information on their insurance and pension rights.
Establish the partnership between the Funds and promote their cooperation in the field of health care in the Health Sectors.
Creation in the first year, without abolishing their administrative autonomy, of a consortium of the 4 large Health Branches of IKA-ETAM, OGA, OAEE and OAPAD.
Participation of the consortium of funds in the establishment of local primary health care systems.
A modern welfare state and the reform of social security - Our commitments: New social service infrastructures - social intervention networks
Basic pension 950 € for a couple and 550 € for an individual OGA pensioner and the uninsured.
With or without the ESSP, the lower pensions granted to pensioners in all other funds will exceed the €550 paid to the uninsured.
A heating allowance for low income earners with a differentiation according to the regions of the country.
Social Solidarity Accounts in the Kapodistrian municipalities to alleviate extreme social problems.
Establishment of a Health and Social Security Card.
Strengthening the contributory relationship between contributions and benefits in insurance.
Creation of a National Solidarity Fund which will be "locked" for at least a decade so that its guaranteed returns will provide additional support to the social security system
Promote the consolidation of the Main Insurance Funds with the aim of gradually leading to three Funds, grouping of supplementary funds, encouragement of occupational funds
Implement an integrated multi-sectoral policy for the disabled.
Quality health and care services for all and for everyone
For PASOK, the immediate reversal of the current course of the NHS towards decline and obsolescence is our political debt to the citizens and our debt to our history.
And it is a priority for us to reduce health expenditure in the family budget by offering quality free services.
We are committed to a strong and financially sustainable public health system that provides high quality health services to all Greeks and ensures access to health services for the poorest and in remote geographical areas.
To reduce health inequalities by increasing public spending and reducing private spending in a new framework of coexistence and cooperation between the public and private health sectors.
The reduction of premature diseases and premature deaths from major diseases.
Caring for and supporting vulnerable groups of the population, and defending mental health.
Objectives
Reduction of preventable diseases and premature deaths from major diseases (cardiovascular diseases, cancers), chronic diseases (hypertension, diabetes), infectious diseases (AIDS) but also accidents, which can be largely prevented by adopting cross-sectoral strategies, healthy behaviours and basic screening and the elimination of social diseases in health.
Provision of high quality health services to all Greeks
Respect for the dignity and rights of patients and application of bio-ethical standards in all health and welfare facilities.
Ensuring access to health services for all without discrimination, in particular for the poorest, vulnerable and other special groups of the population and in remote geographical areas with free choice of doctor.
Reduction of waiting lists for patients at IKA units and hospital outpatient clinics.
Tackling health inequalities by increasing public spending and reducing private health spending. The current situation undermines the provision of free care in our country, which is a fundamental value of the NHS.
Greeks have the highest private spending in the EU.
A strong and financially sustainable public health system.
The absence of any effort to improve the NHS, the delay in recruitment, the reduction in state funding, the doubling of hospital debts, pose serious threats to the future sustainability of the public system.
Barrier-free access to vaccines and medicines
Eliminate all forms of corruption in the health system (procurement - 'envelope' - directed prescribing).
Defending mental health.
The expected rise in mental disorders calls for an acceleration of psychiatric reform in our country.
Improving rehabilitation and reintegration services for people with disabilities
Care and support for vulnerable groups of the population.
Combating the tobacco and drug epidemics
Creating a healthy environment in the home, workplace and education.
Priority to public health and prevention
Developing specific cross-sectoral strategies on the main determinants of health: smoking (especially in adolescence), diet (especially the Mediterranean diet), exercise, alcohol, environmental pollution and road and work-related accidents.
the application of specific screening tests according to individual needs (PAP test, mammography and breast examination, PSA, cancer markers, the scientifically necessary tests in specific cases of predisposing diseases).
Implement uniform modern health promotion and disease management protocols (obesity, hypertension, diabetes mellitus, osteoporosis, oral health)
and implement a compulsory oral hygiene package for all children up to the age of 18.
Free compulsory vaccinations for the whole population and all ages
Public health actions on environment and hygiene (epidemics, environmental diseases, food, water supply, pesticides, fertilizers) carried out by the competent services of the Prefectural and Local Authorities after their modernization and reinforcement with competences and qualified staff.
Strict enforcement of the smoking ban in public places and workplaces and a ban on the purchase of cigarettes and alcohol by persons under 18 years of age.
Inclusion of health education in the curriculum of primary and secondary education.
Operation of an integrated primary health care system
Formulation of a single basic package of primary health care services for all citizens, including: - diagnosis and treatment of common diseases;
- follow-up and medication of chronic diseases;
- prevention.
24-hour coverage and treatment of emergencies (with all PHC units operating 12 hours a day and being on call at all other times);
- home care in cooperation with home help programmes (primary care nurses, health visitors);
- rehabilitation and reintegration.
Creation of Local Primary Health Care Systems (LPS) certified by the Ministry of Health and operated under the responsibility of the Regional Health Systems and later by the local authorities.
The T.S.P.F.Y. are set up with the same specifications as the primary care formations of the NHS, the IKA and other funds and the new family medicine units.
The creation in cities of new Family Medicine Units of the National Health System, with the participation of GPs, general practitioners and paediatricians, covering all insured persons (regardless of the Fund to which they belong).
We ensure free medical care 24 hours a day, 365 days a year, thus relieving hospitals of excessive workload.
Upgrading of Health Centres through the use of modern protocols, filling of vacancies, replacement of the rural doctor by qualified doctors, creation of Multipurpose Regional Clinics throughout the country and the completion of the Urban Health Centres under construction.
Provide the health centres and primary health care units of the IKA with the necessary medical specialities and strengthen them in the field of diagnosis.
Develop a telemedicine network in all health units in remote areas and link the network to the EHAB.
Use of new technology to serve the citizen
Application of an "Electronic Health Card" for every citizen for quick and easy access to all services, ensuring the confidentiality of medical information.
Full computerisation of all health and welfare units and electronic interconnection of NHS units with social security institutions for the systematic and continuous management of medical information, control of expenditure, improvement of administration and exploitation of scientific knowledge.
The creation of the e-Health e-Map will serve to better inform the citizen about the services available and to plan the development of services based on actual needs.
Creation of new forms of care and development of the NHS infrastructure
Creation of a network of Rehabilitation Units and development of physiotherapy services.
Creation of Chronic and Terminal Hospitals, as well as Geriatric Units and Increase of rehabilitation beds in hospitals,
Development of Day Clinics and Surgeries in every hospital of the NHS.
Reorganisation of outpatient and Emergency Departments (EDs) and the development of Intensive Care Units (ICUs), Intensive Care Units (ICUs) and Day Care Units (ICUs) in all public hospitals,
Implementation of a new on-call system in hospitals.
Upgrading, expansion and regional development of the services of the EHIC, creation of a new service for the chronically ill and reorganisation of air ambulances.
Operation of new hospitals (Pediatric and Oncology of Northern Greece, Eastern Attica) and all planned hospitals whose construction has been halted in the last 3 years (Zakynthos, Agrinio, Corfu, Katerini, Naxos, Chalkida).
Development of specialised care
Formulation of a National Plan against Drugs with the necessary resources to cover all counties with Prevention Centres and the development of pluralistic treatment infrastructures and programmes.
Promote psychiatric reform by completing the deinstitutionalisation and reintegration of the mentally ill and linking the new mental health structures with primary health and welfare services and local government.
Upgrade the National Transplant Agency with the aim of exceeding the European average for sponsorship and transplantation within 4 years.
Give the National Blood Donation Committee overall responsibility for the safety, adequacy, processing and quality of blood and establish in each Region at least one Blood Donation Centre with modern testing equipment.
Implement a modern pharmaceutical policy, using a single computerised prescription format (for all funds), reducing polypharmacy, addressing shortages, introducing treatment protocols and establishing a "positive list" to control pharmaceutical expenditure.
A new framework for coexistence and cooperation between the public and private health sector
Creation of a Scientific Body for the Certification of Health Services to ensure the high quality of health services provided by the public and private sector
Establishment and operation of a "Quality Assurance" service in all hospitals of the NHS and the private sector.
Establishment of a new framework for the organisation and operation of the private health sector, which will be monitored and evaluated by the competent services.
Utilisation of private sector infrastructure and services by social security through bilateral negotiated procedures, particularly in critical areas such as intensive care, cardiac surgery.
Strengthening and developing human resources
Strengthening the NHS staff, in particular nursing staff.
Creation of a compulsory programme of continuing education for all health sciences with the support of the Ministry of Health and the cooperation of scientific societies.
Organisation of a voluntary training programme for public sector nurses and the possibility for all nurses in the NHS to work for one year for training and experience.
Implementation of a new pay scale for NHS workers.
Implementation of the new working hours for doctors through recruitment and adjustment of on-call time.
Reorganisation of the procedure for granting specialisation to doctors, with the introduction of a single training programme per speciality, a single appointment for all specialities, a system of circular training and the gradual implementation of the qualifying examination for the start of specialisation.
Development of the new medical specialties of General Medicine, Social Medicine, Occupational Medicine, Rehabilitation Medicine and Genetics.
Expanding and upgrading nursing specialities and other health professionals (medical informatics, technology, administration).
The development of a framework for dialogue to examine the possibility of developing new and alternative scientific fields of employment and specialisation in the health professions.
Upgrading the working conditions and training of other health professionals (social workers, physiotherapists, occupational therapists, speech and language therapists, etc.).
Participation of local government, social partners and citizens in the operation of the public health system
Creation of Regional and Local Health Councils with the participation of representatives of the Administrative Region, the scientific community and citizens (consumer associations, patients, volunteers, etc.).
Assigning to the administrative Region (when established as an elected one) the responsibility for the operation of the Regional Health Systems.
Entrusting municipal authorities with the responsibility for the operation of Local Health Care Systems through a 4-year transition plan.
Functional and institutional linking of the Health Centres, the Regional Clinics, the PHC services of the Health Funds and the "Help at Home" programmes run by the local authorities.
Development of volunteering and participation of voluntary organisations in the provision of health and welfare services and in the Regional and Local Advisory Councils.
Exploiting the new institution of Social Work.
Upgrading the role of the Ombudsman in relation to health issues.
Modern organisation and management of the NHS
Organisation-administration of the NHS at central, regional and local level, with strong Regional Systems and Local Primary Health Care Systems.
The Regional Systems will plan, coordinate, monitor and evaluate public health services and supervise private health services (under the responsibility of the elected Regional Administration when established).
The hospitals (and the B-level welfare units) will be autonomous functional production-administrative units, with modern professional management,
The implementation of the double-entry accounting system and global budgeting in hospitals and the preparation of financing based on the Diagnostic Related Groups (DRG), i.e. the payment of hospitals according to the diagnosis,
The recosting of services provided.
Implement a fully decentralised procurement system based on free market rules and transparent procurement, with a single register of materials, coding and uniform specifications.
Transfer of resources from the private sector to the public sector through contracts between hospitals and private insurance providers and the extension of the institution of evening clinics.
Inclusion of IKA hospitals in the NHS.
Establish a code of principles of good functioning and good governance of health services and apply objective criteria for staff evaluation.
Transformation of the Ministry of Health into an executive body for health policy
The Ministry of Health plans, coordinates and implements national health policies, and formulates the strategy for Public Health and Prevention.
It pursues a cross-sectoral health policy for the child population in cooperation with the Ministry of Education, for workers in cooperation with the Ministry of Employment, with the Ministry of Environment, and for accidents, food, with the relevant ministries or agencies.
It is responsible for designing welfare policy and tackling poverty and social exclusion in cooperation with local authorities.
It has overall responsibility for the pharmaceutical policy and the formulation of a new regulatory framework for the production and marketing of medicinal products, implemented by the upgraded National Medicines Agency.
Health and care for all - Our commitments: Increase public funding of the NHS by 1% of GDP.
Reduction in private health expenditure in the average Greek household.
Recruitment of 3,000 people each year, in addition to retirements, mainly nursing staff, to fill the current vacancies in the NHS and Welfare Units within 5 years.
Issuing a Health Card to all citizens.
Ensure 24-hour coverage and home care for the whole population through the operation of the new integrated primary health care system.
Improving the health indicators of Greeks.
New human resources policy in health.
Implementation of a double-entry accounting system and global budgeting in hospitals.
Putting the child and the family at the heart of our policy
V. CHILDCARE - FAMILY SUPPORT - RECONCILIATION OF FAMILY, PERSONAL AND PROFESSIONAL LIFE
Objectives
PASOK changed the anachronistic, patriarchal Family Law in 1983 and introduced the concept of the family of equality.
At a time when the shape and size of the family and the demands of its members are changing, while at the same time new groups of vulnerable families are emerging, the new PASOK government will be there to help every stage of every family's life.
Our commitment is clear.
We will develop a coherent policy for families of all types.
We develop specific targeted policies for all stages, from the beginning of the family, upbringing and education of children, to the third age:
Policies from the first child, policies for the single-parent family and the single mother, for the family with three or more children, for the family with a disabled parent or child.
In this context, we are also strengthening our action for the smooth integration and development, with equal rights, of immigrant families in our country.
We support parenthood (motherhood and fatherhood) as a social good
and achieve the implementation of the principle of gender equality.
Support the role of the father, jointly and equally with the mother, in family life and in child-rearing responsibilities
and address the obstacles to the equal and full integration of women into the labour market.
We are tackling the demographic problem with political responsibility and sensitivity to the free choices of citizens.
Encourage births and fight child poverty through a combination of benefits, tax relief, services, structures and facilities for parents and the child in their own right.
The issue is not to help the family only when it is already in crisis (violence, poverty, exclusion) but mainly to act preventively.
We will not be able to solve the problems if we do not complete our social infrastructure.
At the same time we put children first.
We enable every child to start life in good conditions, with additional support for children with special needs due to poverty, disability or social discrimination.
We ensure, with commitments throughout our programme, child-friendly policies.
The child, as an autonomous being, is protected from threats and helped to develop his or her personality.
Tackling child poverty and exploitation is our central objective.
Integrated early childhood care and education
In order to make it possible to reconcile and balance family life with professional and social activity, we are committed to providing integrated childcare.
Doubling the number of nurseries and meeting 50% of the needs, for ages 0 months to 4 years, by the end of the first four years.
At the same time, we introduce full-day kindergarten, gradually from the age of 3 years.
The financing of the construction of their infrastructure will be provided through a combination of funds from the state budget, the Labour Centre, the Agricultural Centre, the budget of the municipalities and public-private partnerships.
Knowing that the needs of young working parents cannot wait for four years, we subsidise the cost of childcare in the nurseries from the state/municipal budget.
The amount of the grant will vary according to the taxable family data.
Priority for the reception of children will also be determined on the basis of income and social criteria and on the basis of the employment of both parents or of a single parent.
We give priority to single-parent families and especially to the children of unemployed, uninsured single mothers.
Coverage of foodstuffs on the basis of tripartite participation (state, municipality, family) also applies to the accommodation of children in private nurseries, so that there is a choice of services based on quality criteria, while at the same time acting as a development incentive for the private sector.
We are strengthening the institutional framework for the operation of these structures to ensure maximum flexibility to accommodate working parents, with longer hours of operation, evening shifts and operation throughout the summer months, mainly to serve rural areas or wherever needed.
Ensure equal participation of children with disabilities in pre-school care.
Promote measures to cater for short-term or emergency care of infants and toddlers.
Introduce innovative home-based childcare programmes, with funding and scientific support from the local authorities for the creation of a register of certified professionals and parents' associations, with priority for unemployed women, especially older women or single parents, in the context of social work.
Incentivise entrepreneurship and activate corporate social responsibility for the creation of private early childhood care and education facilities with extended opening hours.
Encourage the creation of crèches by medium-sized and large firms (deduction of such costs from their tax or profits) in areas where land is used for business and commercial activities and in large complexes (industrial estates, industrial parks, industrial plants, department stores, shopping centres, airports).
The government sets the standards, the conditions for the operation of nursery schools throughout the country (public, municipal, private) and trains and certifies their staff, and also evaluates these facilities.
Authorisation, specifications, control and supervision will be developed by the second level of government.
The organisation/implementation, implementation and operation of the stations will be at municipal or inter-municipal level.
New couples
PASOK has taken specific measures to help young couples to have children and support their upbringing:
A one-off benefit of €2,000 for the birth of each child, based on income criteria.
Comprehensive coverage of the costs of medically assisted conception with the introduction of uniform benefit rules by insurance providers and coverage by the state budget of the costs for unemployed, uninsured or destitute women.
Access for all citizens to medical services for fertility control and treatment of infertility, prevention and treatment of reproductive diseases.
Re-evaluate the parental leave system with a view to making it substantially easier for parents, making it more attractive for fathers to use it equally, eliminating inequalities in rights and benefits and ensuring that parents, especially mothers, remain active in society and in their professional position.
Strengthen mechanisms for monitoring the implementation of labour law on working hours, parental leave and protection of pregnancy.
A housing policy that supports young people who want to start a family.
Expansion of the beneficiaries of the OEK, simplification of the conditions, expansion of the benefits in terms of conditions and their type (loans, housing, rent subsidies, etc.)
Tax relief, depending on the number of children.
Emphasis on supporting single-parent, three-parent and large families and families with disabled children.
Promoting the role of businesses and trade unions in the context of corporate social responsibility to establish family-friendly actions and measures.
Cells of social intervention
We are creating a Social Intervention Network (SIN) at municipal level, next to those in need, in order to address directly and effectively problems such as domestic or inter-child violence, truancy, breakdown of family relationships, drug use, disability, loss of a partner or parent, social exclusion, etc, and to meet the need to develop counselling services for parent education and family planning.
Counselling psychologist in schools.
In each Social Intervention Network there will be at least one specialist with responsibility for monitoring the education and counselling of pupils, and mentoring parents and teachers.
Ensure the cooperation and complementarity of the Network with an active local civil society
Commit to specific measures to support families with children with disabilities, such as the completion of staffing of special schools, the operation of sheltered workshops after the age of 22 for children with special educational needs, and the
and for the development of adequate policies to ensure their dignified living conditions in the event of the loss of parents or guardians.
The central state sets the framework and objectives of social policy: it establishes new institutions and standards, certifies structures, organisations and individuals implementing policies, evaluates and monitors.
Active and dignified ageing
Expanding the "Help at Home" service and reinforcing its services with additional professional specialisations, so that it can gradually take on other vulnerable social groups, such as people with disabilities.
Increase in the number of Day Care Centres for the Elderly and new actions in the Centres for the active ageing of people (lifelong learning, social work).
- Review of the standards and immediate improvement of the framework for the provision of institutional care for elderly people without means.
Childcare
A national account for the child, with a monetary deposit from the state budget of €1,000 in a fixed-term investment account for each child born, which is then supported by local authorities, social partners and parents, if they can afford it.
The direct and sole beneficiary is the child when he or she reaches the age of 18.
Increase and annual adjustment of the dependent child allowance to ensure a minimum guaranteed standard of living for the child.
Commit to implementing and monitoring the Charter of the Rights of the Child, taking all necessary measures.
Delinquent behaviour of minors and young people
We give importance to the social dimension of delinquency.
A juvenile who engages in delinquent behaviour is himself usually a victim of a daily routine that violates his rights.
We prevent aggression in minors by counselling them, by creating positive role models for their lives.
We formulate policies that ensure their smooth socialisation and prevent their social exclusion.
We are improving the criminal justice system by creating alternatives to easy recourse to criminal measures.
Emphasis is placed on the proper and adequate staffing of services dealing with juvenile delinquency issues, on further specialisation of professionals, on improving the infrastructure and operation of specialised detention facilities.
New institutions
Improvement and adaptation of family law to modern family issues, with special attention to issues related to the handling of divorce (child custody, the award and payment of maintenance, etc.), with a view to protecting the rights and interests of children, giving an important role to both parents.
Ensuring rules for the dignified settlement of marital and family disputes based on the principles of equality and mutual respect.
Elimination of restrictive criteria for pension entitlement and pension distribution for divorced persons.
The civil partnership contract becomes a recognised legal form of free choice of partnership irrespective of gender.
Modernise the framework for dealing with domestic violence, especially against women and children, while ensuring resources for awareness-raising programmes for the population and the creation of support centres for victims and temporary shelters.
These centres are part of the Social Intervention Network.
They are established and operated with co-financing from the State, the TA and civil society partners.
A change in the adoption and fostering regime for children, with the aim of providing effective support and facilitation for those wishing to adopt from the country or abroad, with rules of transparency and simplification of bureaucratic procedures, without compromising the safety of children.
We are completing the foster care scheme for the elderly.
Family and child - Our commitments: Full coverage of infant and childcare needs within eight years.
Doubling, in 4 years, the number of existing crèches and nurseries.
A one-off benefit of €2,000 for the birth of each child based on income criteria.
A National Account for Children with a deposit of €1,000 from the state budget into a fixed-term investment account for each child born.
Subsidy of the cost of childcare in day-care centres from the state/municipal budget.
A social intervention network in each municipality, with specialised services for immediate response to family problems.
One centre per municipality to deal with domestic violence.
Quality of life for all
VI. FREE TIME AND FREE SPACE
The strategic objective of our development plan is to promote the quality of life and the natural and cultural heritage as strategic factors of Greece's comparative advantage.
In these areas Greece can become a model country for European data.
Quality of life, open spaces, affordable housing for residents and businesses, the attractiveness of cities, the friendliness of transport are prerequisites for the attraction and development of high value-added economic activities that will boost employment and the dynamism of the Greek economy.
Improving the quality of life in cities
Objectives
We want the city to be competitive and creative.
A city where it is worth living, studying, working, investing, having fun.
A city that respects architecture, monuments, culture.
Our aim is to give the citizen an identity with his city.
To love public life again, participation.
To feel that his opinion counts.
We advocate an urban regeneration plan that includes all those responsibilities and tasks that relate to the life of a city: social care, cultural activities, economic activities, educational services, environmental planning.
Policies
The city as a centre of innovation.
A range of measures such as providing incentives for the creation of city-led business and industrial incubators, the introduction of e-government at local/regional level and the establishment of local entrepreneurship offices.
A city that is economically self-sufficient.
We believe in the economic self-sufficiency of cities through a fair tax reform that ensures social cohesion and enables policy making.
City accessible.
For all persons who may be impeded and for persons with disabilities.
Prevention of ghettoisation.
Investing in popular neighbourhoods to transform them into pockets of creativity and social activity.
Social city.
More educational and social responsibilities in the competence of the city.
From school management to urban health centres.
And from pre-school centres to home help.
City of culture and sport.
We want the city to tell its history.
We emphasize the culture of the halls and the street.
Promoting regeneration policy as a key tool of the new urban planning policy and programmes for the consolidation of archaeological sites for each local authority.
Protection of all architecturally and urbanistically significant settlements.
Establishment of morphological conditions and building regulations.
Green city - fewer cars, cleaner air, more green, less waste.
We aim to use only public transport in city centres from 2011 and to create extensive networks of cycle paths.
Priority to reduce second generation air pollution (particulate matter, benzene).
We encourage the use of electric vehicles, as a priority, by public and municipal authorities.
Energy saving in public and private buildings.
Creation of gardens on the roofs of buildings and use of cold materials in the free built-up areas of the city.
Renovation of building facades and preservation of the architectural character of the cities.
Utilisation of the uncovered spaces of apartment buildings by integrating and converting them into green spaces.
We support a new model of waste management (waste reduction, source separation, recycling, comminution, energy recovery, landfill) leading from landfill to landfill.
We emphasise recycling.
The "emancipated" city.
Transfer to the Local Authorities the management of free public spaces and green spaces with a parallel institutional safeguarding of these spaces through the General Urban Plans.
Preparation by the municipalities of urban planning studies in a general framework established by the central administration and simplification of procedures for a shorter institutionalisation of the general urban planning plans of the local authorities.
Participatory city.
We propose annual accountability of all elected governing bodies
and support binding consultation with the social actors and NGOs that develop in the city.
We support decisive referendums on local issues.
Improving the quality of life in cities -- our commitments in cooperation with the KEDKE: Reduce traffic in the city centre by 5-10%.
Ensuring accessibility for all disabled persons and persons with disabilities.
Transfer of educational and social responsibilities to the municipalities.
Travel by public transport only from 2011, in the centres of large cities.
Creation of extensive networks of cycle paths.
Increase open and green spaces in large and medium-sized cities by 20% within the first four years.
Annual accountability of all elected city governing bodies.
Decisive referendums on local issues.
Culture: our identity
Objectives
The country's cultural capital is a public good and is directly linked to quality of life, education, economic development and employment.
Our cultural tradition is what makes our country special.
The relatively recent revival at international level of the ancient institution of the Olympic Truce has shown that if we escape the sterile perception that conservatism has of tradition, then we can turn it into a source of liberation, creation, search, a source of learning and inspiration for the present and the future.
Culture permeates all our policies with the aim of facilitating creative artistic expression and redefining our cultural identity in 21st century terms to ensure our dynamic presence on the international cultural chessboard.
Bringing culture back to the forefront by productively linking culture with education, information and internet technologies, and the tourism industry.
We need to decisively link culture to the Information Society in order to achieve cultural decentralisation.
Cities and culture
Policy management of the cultural heritage should become an independent component of spatial planning.
We invest in cultural infrastructure in areas and neighbourhoods that are underdeveloped.
Programmes to integrate archaeological sites and monuments into the urban fabric of cities and create public recreational areas.
Reducing cultural inequalities to enable all citizens to dream and taste the cultural product.
Bodies and new responsibilities
A new role for the Ministry of Culture to respond to today's cultural challenges.
Strengthen human resources, staffing supervised organisations with specialised and highly qualified personnel.
Strengthening of the Arts Networks and action instruments of the main bodies implementing cultural policy (OPEP, TAPA, Greek Festival, Greek Cultural Foundation, Greek Cinema Centre).
Promotion of the Archives and Libraries integration programme in the MoD.
Creation of the structures for the effective synergy of the Ministry of Education, Environment, Employment, Tourism.
Emphasis on the exercise of foreign cultural policy, so that the country is constantly present in the European and international cultural scene.
Creating structures and networks for the dissemination, distribution and circulation of all kinds of cultural goods and services, combating a major cause of cultural exclusion.
Strengthening the mobility of artistic creation and production through events that highlight the contemporary cultural face of the country.
Completion of the major museum infrastructure with the expansion of the National Archaeological Museum, the establishment of the Athens Museum in the Platonos Academy, the final installation of the State Museum of Contemporary Art.
Cooperation between public and private funds to promote cultural events by establishing clear criteria, supporting small and medium-sized enterprises and creating distribution networks, and promoting certification rules based on strict criteria.
Maps of tourists' cultural destinations and promotion of "smart" tourist packages by creating networks of itineraries and thematic cultural visits.
Culture - new technologies - education
Upgrading of artistic education at all levels, with the creation of university-level performing arts schools with an objective admission system.
Inclusion of artists' training in higher education and accreditation of education-training-qualification programmes in the framework of Lifelong Learning programmes.
Upgrading art and cultural heritage courses in formal education.
Integration of local culture in the operation of open schools, seminars for teachers on concepts such as cultural continuity, the link between culture and the environment, the value of tradition.
"A 'pupil's library', with the provision of three books per pupil per year and three cultural education programmes in digital format free of charge.
Linking school trips to cultural sites.
Digitisation of all cultural wealth and a complete, up-to-date National Monuments Archive.
New technologies for the preservation and cultivation of the Greek language, especially for the expatriates.
Utilization of the chairs of Ancient and Modern Greek Studies abroad.
Digitisation and promotion on the Internet of the Ministry of Culture's educational programmes for educational use, and their translation into three foreign languages.
Culture for all and by all
Extension of the Culture Card, adopted for the first time between 2000-2004, to all Greeks and a special pricing policy and discounts on the supply of cultural products.
Integration into the leisure economy of the programmes for the consolidation of archaeological sites and monuments in urban centres and the region.
Continuation of the modernisation programme for regional museums.
Programmes for the preservation and dissemination of the intangible heritage (ancient and modern literature, literature, music).
Regional cultural workshops where citizens get to know the artists and become artists themselves.
New institutions of cultural decentralisation, aiming at the development of the cultural identity of cities in the periphery, such as the biennial Cultural Capital of Greece.
Expansion of the Regional Arts Networks (Theatre Network, Music Network, Visual Arts Network, Dance Network, Film Network, Photography Network, Folklore Network, Book Network, Cultural Organisation and Management Network).
Establish a network of excellence with awards for contemporary cultural creation, protection and promotion of the cultural heritage.
Extroversion and osmosis
Emphasis on the organisation of educational programmes aimed at familiarising young people with issues of cultural diversity.
Cultural immersion programmes with migrants.
Possibilities for initiatives that highlight the cultural identity of particular social groups and the Migration Museum.
Establish a competitive procedure for young artists and young scientists.
Culture - our commitments
Immediate negotiation with the EU on the revision of the 4th CSF in the field of culture and a gradual increase in culture funding with the aim of achieving convergence with the EU average within a decade.
Ensuring merit-based procedures in recruitment, evaluation, grants and improving the salaries and basic working conditions of scientists and artists.
Ensuring intellectual property rights and their effective protection.
Establish more time on public television for culture.
Mass sport: a source of health, communication, collectivity
Objectives
Our central objective is "sport for all".
In the period 2008-2012 we want to restructure the model of sport in our country through the triptych of "Long-term national programming", "Decentralised sports administration" and "Strengthening sport in sport".
Policies
The legacy of the Olympic and Paralympic Games.
We are changing the post-university "planning" of the present government and we are giving the facilities to the citizens through management schemes that will allow the public and private sectors to work together.
Sports and Sports facilities for all.
Every citizen to participate in a mass sports programme, in modern, clean and well-organised facilities.
In cooperation with local authorities, we will launch a binding national programme for the creation of new sports facilities with a view to 2015.
Strengthening club sport.
We encourage the merging of clubs in the same region and ensure transparency in grants by funding specific operational programmes according to meritocratic criteria and rules.
We trust the sports federations.
Four-year programming and planning.
Each federation shall be financed on the basis of the actions and needs provided for in each programming document.
We evaluate the work of the federations and abolish the "extraordinary grants" that are often perceived as patronage.
We are extending the Culture Card to sport: for young people, families and vulnerable social groups to have free access to municipal sports programmes.
Investing in school and university sport.
Investing in school sport will ensure that by 2012 all children will receive three hours of high quality gymnastics or sport per week.
Through school sport we will restore "neighbourhood sport".
Priority in sport for people with disabilities.
Today, sport for people with disabilities is seen as the poor relation of sport in our country.
This is a profound social injustice which we will remedy as a matter of priority by providing generous aid to all federations and clubs involved in sport for people with disabilities.
A new and decentralised model for the development of sport and the link with tourism.
We are creating the National Sports Council and implementing decentralisation in sport by transferring administrative responsibilities currently exercised by the General Secretariat for Sport to the regions.
We are promoting an ambitious programme to attract foreign federations for their training needs and a long-term programme to bid for major sporting events.
We support professional sport and guarantee compliance with the law.
The economics of professional sport should not lead to its exclusion from sport and its exclusive inclusion in the economic activities of society.
Responsibility for the sporting aspect lies with the sports federation concerned, while the financial aspect is governed by the rules applicable to any economic activity, with control remaining with the State mechanisms.
Sport - our commitments
Priority for mass sport programmes
By 2012 we expect all children to receive three hours of high-quality gymnastics or sport per week.
Strengthening of club sport
Evaluation and funding of sports federations on the basis of their work.
An end to clientelism
Transparency and accountability in public administration
VII. A SECURE, EFFICIENT AND JUST STATE
Focus on the citizen
Ideologies, policies and persons are judged by the way a state is governed.
No major change and no radical reform can succeed unless it touches the heart of the state:
this is the source of the pathogenesis that produces and reproduces rigidities, feeds on anachronism and feeds stagnation, dynamises the country, afflicts citizens, distorts the economy and binds society and its creative forces.
If the country is to take the big step towards the future, it must settle its accounts with this source of delay and inertia.
PASOK both wants and knows and can do so.
The state is the main instrument of politics and civil society policies for the preservation and extension of human political, social and economic rights.
The state must not be neutral, apathetic and weak in the face of globalisation and market forces.
The primary task of the progressive party is the complete reorganisation of the state in order to defend the autonomy and hegemony of politics
and an institutional tradition that incorporates the values of the Enlightenment and the political and social struggles of three centuries.
Our main objective is to design and implement everything with the citizen and his or her needs at the centre.
We are committed to building a simple - efficient - fair state at the service of citizens, which, together with our ideas, will be our basic arsenal for building a just society.
To this end, we will promote radical reforms in the POLITICAL SYSTEM, in PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION, in PUBLIC SECURITY, in JUSTICE.
Political system for transparency and accountability
Objectives
We want the political system to ensure transparency and improve the quality of representative democracy.
Only if we create a transparent electoral system, an electoral system that minimises the criticality of so-called political money, an electoral system that guarantees the independence of the Member of Parliament to the greatest possible extent, will we give a convincing answer.
Only in this way can we respond to the universal suspicion of corruption, to the great question of the relationship between politics and economic and communicative power.
Our aim is to put Parliament back at the centre of political life.
This is where the level and quality of democracy is judged on a daily basis. Our top priority is the radical upgrading of the functions of Parliament and the role of the Member of Parliament.
The combination of pluralism with the obscure nature of many legislative provisions and the maintenance of anachronistic provisions clashes with the logic of the modern rule of law.
These features lead to overlaps and ambiguities that create opacity and work against good administration, and create conditions of corruption.
Our main objective is to establish transparency in the legislative function.
Electoral system
We propose to discuss a mixed electoral system which, drawing on the experience of other European countries, would have two main features: the combination of single-member and wide constituencies and the combination of cross-election and list-based elections.
The electoral system will reflect the need for equal participation of both sexes in politics.
We believe that such an electoral system is an essential and crucial contribution to the need for transparency in the political system and the deepening of representative democracy.
PASOK pledges to abolish the undemocratic 42% provision in the law on local elections.
Parliament
We are committed to enhancing the prestige of the Parliament and its Members through the following measures: Public Consultation: Establish a mandatory public consultation stage for each draft law.
The public consultation will be compulsorily recorded on a website, so that any basis expressed will be accessible to interested citizens and open to further public scrutiny and criticism.
After the first implementation of the measure in draft laws, the mandatory public consultation stage will precede the adoption of all regulatory texts of the Public Administration (Central and Regional Administration, Prefectural/Regional Administration and Local Government).
Quality Control: Each draft law must be accompanied by a mandatory quality report, which will include a detailed assessment and evaluation of the impact of the law (in particular on the economy, society, the environment, islands) and a study on its implementation, as well as
a report evaluating the results of the public consultation and justifying why proposals submitted to the public consultation were not adopted.
Amendments: In Parliament, amendments will be prohibited after the debate before the parliamentary committee has been completed, and all bills will be subject to two "readings" before the relevant committee, separated by a sufficient amount of time.
European Union issues: establish the obligation to inform Parliament and public opinion on the issues under discussion and on the positions that the Government intends to take, given that a large part of the legislation is adopted in the European Union.
We are also strengthening institutions of citizen participation and institutions of direct democracy (such as referendums and the popular legislative initiative).
Executive Government and Local Government
After the great strides of the creation of the regions, the South-East and Kapodistrias, we are moving on to the next major step in decentralising the country, strengthening local government and completing its regional restructuring.
We are thus bringing power closer to the citizen.
We are setting up a simple - distinct - decentralised structure in three levels with the following characteristics: Executive Government with fewer Ministries with the main task of producing, monitoring and evaluating Public Policies, free of local and regional functions.
The exclusive responsibilities of the Government are reserved for Ministries that manage purely national affairs (e.g. national defence, security, public finance, cultural heritage).
All other public functions are transferred to the two levels of government (regional and local).
The reduction in the number of regions will be based on geographical, historical, developmental, administrative and operational criteria.
Regional self-government with a smaller number of regions, in the form of a local government with an elected regional council and an elected regional governor.
Its main task is regional development, together with the design and implementation of the public policies for which it is responsible (education, health, welfare, etc.).
Prefectures operate in the form of "Prefectural Divisions" of the Region concerned.
Local government with strong municipalities (which will emerge after a new wave of mergers) with the main mission - beyond the acquis of local development - to provide high quality services to citizens.
In today's world, everything a citizen needs (e.g. education, health, welfare, employment, investment, culture, urban planning, sport, etc.) should be available in the municipality,
with the emphasis on tackling social exclusion.
We will also promote the financial autonomy of the municipalities by providing for generous fiscal decentralisation (with the activation of the constitutional provision on local revenues), accompanied by control mechanisms (administrative and social) for the management of municipal money.
A Cohesion Fund is created for weak local authorities, especially on the islands.
The new mergers of local authorities will be based on a development plan for each new municipality and for its districts
and we are therefore committed to a new "CAPODISTRIA II" programme which will finance the developmental constitution and the inter-municipal convergence of the new municipalities.
Particular attention will be paid to small local authorities that will become municipal districts of new large municipalities.
Also, each island and municipality, with the exception of the large islands.
The media in the modern era
The PASOK governments laid the foundations for the operation of electronic media with Law 2328/1995.
Nowadays, when the convergence of communication and information technologies is a fact and digital technology opens up new possibilities for the provision of networks and services, adjustments and interventions are needed at institutional level in the context of European data and the guidelines of European law.
That is why it is imperative: The immediate licensing of TV and radio stations on the basis of objective criteria in a modern and functional regulatory framework that will set the necessary conditions for the transition to digital technology.
Accelerating the implementation of digital technology in television and radio which, according to the European Commission's Communication, should be completed by 2012 at the latest.
Abolish the law on the main shareholder and introduce a real guarantee of transparency and pluralism in electronic media in line with European experience.
The development of regional SMEs and the upgrading of their role in a clarified institutional environment, free of dependencies on central authority.
To support and encourage innovative growth initiatives for SMEs active on the Internet through broadband networks.
The development, after consultation, of a modern regulatory framework for the operation of polling and political analysis companies.
Relations between church and state
Our aim is a new regulation of the relations between the state and the church that will lead to the distinction of their roles.
A regulation that will free the church from state dependencies alien to its spiritual and social life and the state from practices alien to European constitutional culture.
During this process, ways to address the problems of the lower clergy and ways to organise the voluntary financial contribution of the faithful to the church will be discussed with the church.
Civil Society, Non-Governmental Organisations and Volunteering
The flourishing of civil society is a fundamental objective of PASOK's policy.
The policy of the PASOK government will move in two directions in parallel: The creation of an Independent Authority and a National Register for NGOs.
The competence of the Independent Authority will be to ensure transparency and meritocracy, to regulate the relations between NGOs and the public sector, and to prevent any possible manipulation by state, government or commercial entities.
Its main mission is to establish and maintain a National Register of NGOs, which will form the basis for cooperation between the public sector and NGOs.
Their financial support.
Financial support can be achieved by establishing a legislative framework that favours and encourages donations and sponsorships, by public financial support and by facilitating funding from European sources and private operators.
All this support should be guaranteed by strict rules of transparency, representativeness, accountability and meritocracy.
Political system - our commitments
A mixed electoral system with a combination of single-member and wide constituencies and a combination of cross-election and list voting.
Change in the structures of the State: An executive government with fewer ministries, a smaller number of regions with an elected regional governor, a few strong demoi, which will emerge after a new wave of mergers.
Mandatory public consultation stage for each draft law and quality control.
Prohibition of tabling amendments after the debate before the parliamentary committee has been completed
Establishment of an obligation to inform Parliament and public opinion on issues discussed in the EU.
Human rights
Objectives
We want a state that places the unimpeded exercise of the rights and freedoms of all citizens, irrespective of their national origin, religious or political beliefs and sexual orientation, as the cornerstone of its policy.
A state which is preventive rather than repressive, which protects its citizens from state violence and arbitrary police action and which complies with international rules.
A state that will see diversity as an opportunity for creation and development.
Immigration policy
The massive influx of immigrants over the last twenty years has created a new reality in Greece.
PASOK has shown that it believes in the contribution of immigrants to the country's economy, that it does not punish diversity but on the contrary considers it an element of enrichment of Greek society.
PASOK as a government sets as a central axis of its immigration policy the full, smooth and non-discriminatory social integration of immigrants.
Our priorities as a government will become:
Ensuring the social and labour rights of migrants.
The granting of citizenship to all children of immigrants born and raised in Greece and automatic acquisition after three years for all others who are students in our country.
The introduction in schools of the teaching of the mother tongue of the main countries of origin, with an emphasis on pre-school education.
The institutionalisation of the right to vote and stand for election in local elections for foreigners who have completed five years of legal residence in Greece.
The fight against undeclared work and tax evasion by employers by strengthening the institution of the Labour Inspectorate.
Improve administrative mechanisms and strengthen them by creating a General Secretariat for Immigration Policy, by staffing the CCPs with linguistically competent officials to serve the main immigrant populations and by establishing the Council of Aliens at local government level following elections among immigrants in the municipality or community.
A similar provision for the main insurance funds (IKA, OGA).
The transnational agreements to guarantee insurance rights and avoid double insurance contributions for pensions and health care.
Free medical care using the vouchers to cover the cost.
Broadening the conditions for the regularisation of illegal immigrants.
The ratification of the Palermo Convention and the harmonisation of national legislation on trafficking in human beings
and the possibility for the victim to choose between voluntary repatriation or settlement in Greece.
Asylum policy
The number of refugees is significantly lower than that of economic migrants.
However, this fact does not justify the lack of a coherent policy and administrative arbitrariness towards them.
In this context, we are committed to a policy with the following characteristics: full and timely harmonisation of national law with all Community directives,
implementation of international conventions and Greek procedural law
and simplification of the procedure for access to the application for political asylum.
Full information about their rights in a language they understand and the possibility of legal representation.
Possibility to apply for asylum in cases of mass arrivals of foreigners in border areas, transparent procedures for examining applications and objective examination of applications.
Decent living conditions for asylum seekers in reception centres, creation of special places for women and children, social support for unaccompanied refugee minors.
Automatic asylum for proven victims of torture, rape or other forms of moral, physical or sexual violence.
Pontian Paleontologists
The PASOK governments drafted and began to implement an important project for this much-needed part of Hellenism, which was, however, violently interrupted by the New Democracy.
Having opened up a wide field of dialogue with our expatriates, we are aware of their problems
and are committed to working along the following lines: Simplification and streamlining of the procedures for granting Greek citizenship.
Adoption of a regulation to avoid deportations of expatriates who have applied for Greek citizenship.
Reactivation and completion of the housing rehabilitation programme.
Examination of the sensitive aspects of their insurance problem.
Develop specific programmes to tackle unemployment.
Roma (Gypsies)
The Greek Roma must be treated at the political and social level as a vulnerable social group with specific cultural characteristics, equal rights and equal access to housing, health and education.
In this context, we make the following commitments: Combating discrimination against them, in particular through the ratification of Protocol 12 of the European Convention on Human Rights,
the systematic training of the competent bodies for the implementation of legislation to combat discrimination,
the examination in due time of pending complaints of ill-treatment of Roma by police authorities,
the immediate settlement of outstanding urban and municipal cases,
the extensive campaign to raise awareness of the social body.
Implement as a matter of priority the measures foreseen and take additional measures to relocate camps and improve living conditions in them.
Facilitate the settlement of Roma in neighbourhoods outside camps.
Priority participation in special programmes at local government level, absorption as labour force in major projects and integration in vocational rehabilitation schools through the OAED and OEK.
Ensuring equal access to basic education services with other citizens, excluding the creation of separate schools for Roma.
Minority of Thrace
The equal and effective presence of the minority of Thrace in social life and the development of the whole region is an issue that affects the overall quality of our democracy.
Despite the measures taken over the last fifteen years, there are still remnants of prejudice and negative practices which create obstacles to the dynamic adaptation of the minority to the modern social acquis.
PASOK has pursued an active policy of participation of minority members in key positions in local government, trade unions and party institutions.
It encouraged their participation in consultation processes on minority issues and beyond.
We believe that the development of the minority is inextricably linked to the overall prosperity of the region.
The guarantee of the inviolable operation of the rules of equality for all citizens is a matter of principle.
Expatriates from Northern Epirus
Since the early 1990s, PASOK has worked to improve bilateral relations with Albania and its rapprochement with the EU
, while at the same time adopting important policies to support and integrate ethnic Albanians into Greek society.
Building on our experience, we make the following commitments for our next term of government: Immediate and transparent granting of citizenship to all homogenous people who are entitled to it.
Special regulation of the military service of homogenous persons.
Participation in the organs of our party.
Preparation of a strategic plan for development and investment in the areas of Albania with a strong Greek element.
Facilities for the admission of students to Greek Universities, provision of allowances.
Examination of the outstanding insurance claims of the nationals of the same nationality.
Human rights - our commitments
Protecting and promoting the rights of all citizens without exception.
Take effective measures for the social integration of migrants and provide for the second generation of migrants.
Welfare and support for vulnerable social groups, the socially excluded and marginalised.
Public administration with objectives and results for citizens
Objectives
Our vision is the triptych: accessibility - quality - universality in the services offered by the state to its citizens.
In simple words, we want the citizens of our country, wherever they are (geographically), regardless of their income, nationality, gender, religion to have the same access to the services of the state (accessibility), to enjoy the same high level of services (quality) and for these services to be available everywhere (universality).
Citizen Service Centres (CSCs) are one such example, promoting Everyday Democracy.
Our main objective is to transform the current bureaucratic system of administration - with a new way of running the public administration - into a system with objectives and measurable results at all levels:
from government to the last community in the country.
At the same time, evaluation is being introduced everywhere, which will be a criterion for state budget subsidies for organic units (e.g. municipalities, hospitals, universities), as well as a criterion for the remuneration of civil servants (productivity premium).
We also know that without radical changes in public administration no other major progressive reform can work.
In order to achieve these objectives, we will promote the following reforms.
Internal functions of the public administration
The internal functions of public administration (decision and document flow) have taken on a completely different form and dynamic in the information society environment.
We want to create a Public Administration without borders between different institutions and different levels of administration.
Alongside its simple structure is its horizontal function.
This will help us to meet major national targets (e.g. unemployment, employment) on the one hand, and to
provide a high level of service to citizens and preparedness to manage crises, from the smallest (e.g. a power cut in a region) to the largest (e.g. an earthquake in densely populated areas) on the other.
Civil protection is the hardest core of a modern and effective state.
We clearly separate the administration of the Public Administration from its political management (separation of powers and responsibilities between political superiors and the managers of the Public Administration)
and we maintain our commitment to the de-secularisation of the State.
Universal electronic communication between public administrations, and between citizens and all public authorities, by 2012.
All civil servants with digital signature, fast connection and e-mail address to SYZYXIS and certified in the use of new technologies.
Promoting Free Software in public administration.
Accelerate public IT projects.
All data and information handled by the state are entered into databases and we have a single Public Information Management System open to citizens.
Modern Quality Management Systems are applied in public administration.
Also, systems for evaluating and measuring the efficiency of all the institutional units of the State with specific indicators and measurable results.
Programming - Coordination - Evaluation are the modern tools we want to introduce in the Public Administration.
Programme Agreements (Contracts) that form a "co-responsible partnership of the parties" as a tool for the implementation of public policies (e.g. Universities, Hospitals)
Citizen Service Centres (KEPs) full branches of the state for ALL (about 1,200) citizens' affairs (from simple birth certificates to pensions) that undertake the completion of cases with a simple visit of the citizen.
At the same time, we will promote a mandatory processing time for all citizens' cases, and when this is not met, the citizen will be entitled to financial compensation from the state.
Trust of public administration towards citizens.
Replace certificates and attestations with the Citizen's Declaration of Responsibility ("self-certification"), while introducing severe penalties for false declarations.
Redefinition, mergers and rationalisation of NPAs and NPIs
Development of human resources
Appraisal - mobility - continuous training from the moment a civil servant enters the civil service until retirement.
Mobility is also extended to the private sector for the posts of Directors-General.
We want the young people of our country to be cut off from the reverie of client networks and to enter the public service on merit: we owe it to them.
We want the civil servant to be a real public servant, shielded by the political leadership with independence and dignity, a real protagonist and producer of public life.
To implement the following policies we are establishing: An annual multimodal competition for admission to the civil service, with a combination of a written examination and points.
The competition will cover all specialities and will be valid throughout the year.
Project contracts with natural persons shall be abolished with the necessary transitional phase for those already in service.
All procedures without exception are carried out by the AESEP.
We design and implement new public sector personnel policies that objectively and merit-based evaluate the work on offer, encourage fairness, reward acquired skills and reward the work produced.
The assessment shall be based on the performance of the employee in the unit to which he or she belongs.
The task of evaluation is entrusted to the National Centre for Public Administration and Self-Government, which is being upgraded for this major purpose and includes all existing public education structures.
The National Centre for Public Administration and Self-Government (NACPA) shall design and implement an education, training and lifelong learning programme per public body, which shall be fully linked to the corresponding operational modernisation programme of the public body
and shall be evaluated on the basis of its contribution to the success of the programme objectives of that body.
Education and training are becoming a tool for reform and modernisation.
All this will be achieved with the cooperation of civil servants and that is why we are creating stable institutions for consultation with their collective bodies, not only on trade union issues but also on all major administrative changes.
Transparency and citizen participation everywhere
We want to create a new "administrative culture"
with the following characteristics: The introduction of "Consultation" as an institution of citizens' participation in major decisions of the country's institutions.
Public consultation can be established from the production of the country's laws by the National Parliament to the decisions of the Municipal Councils.
Broadening participation through democratic practices via the Internet.
Emphasis on platforms that facilitate the monitoring of the work of elected representatives (e-petitions, e-voting) as well as policy planning and public money management.
All ministries publish on a public consultation website all draft presidential decrees, decisions and draft laws for public consultation
Internet publicity for all decisions of the country's administrative and financial institutions.
Transparency and light in document flow and finances.
Publicity e.g. in the decisions of the Parliament, Ministers, Courts, Municipal Councils etc.
Accountability of all public bodies and all institutions, elected by the people at regular intervals.
For each executive who takes up a managerial political position, his/her assets (e.g. the E9 form) shall be disclosed upon taking up his/her duties and at the end of his/her term of office.
Citizen participation in every important decision in their village, their town, their city, their country.
Participation can take the form of parallel bodies (e.g. Municipal Youth Councils, Youth Parliament), local and national referendums (voluntary or compulsory), as well as debates on important issues in all the country's institutions from the Municipal Councils to the National Parliament, following the collection of a sufficient number of signatures from citizens.
Developing a movement for transparency in public life
by: Consolidation of the audit mechanisms through the establishment of a single body of inspectors-auditors of the public administration with internal sectoral expertise.
Internal control of the implementation of the prescribed objectives of administrative action in all public sector bodies.
Internal self-control: Establishment by Civil Servants of rules of conduct for their operation, which they will be bound to observe.
Social control: Establishment of Citizens' Panels on a voluntary basis, elected by public lottery for one year and constituting bodies of proposals and social control in all the institutions of the country.
These bodies could start operating in places where there are serious corruption problems (hospitals, tax offices, municipalities);
-The establishment of a National Transparency Commission with increased expertise, chaired by a person of national standing, which would submit proposals to all the country's political forces, making use of public consultation.
Extend to the "narrow public sector", with appropriate adaptation, the provisions of Law 2414/1996, in the areas of programming (strategic and operational plan) and senior management (public procurement, evaluation, tenure).
Public administration with objectives and results - our commitments
Electronic interconnection of all public services, for public services without "borders".
Establishment of a mandatory deadline for processing ALL citizens' cases through the CCPs (about 1,200) with compensation from the state when the deadline is not met.
Replacing certificates and attestations with the Declaration of Independence and introducing severe penalties for false declarations.
An annual competition with a combination of written and mark tests for ALL permanent civil servants.
Abolition of project contracts for natural persons with the necessary transitional phase for those already in service.
ALL procedures by the AESEP.
Establishment of evaluation and programming everywhere with specific indicators and measurable results in all the country's organisational units (Ministries, Regions, Municipalities, Hospitals, Universities, Police Departments) with parallel evaluation of ALL civil servants.
Establishing full transparency and citizen participation through the new institutions of consultation, social accountability and referendums.
Dynamic and gradual development of these new institutions with continuous improvement.
A new way of running the public sector using programme agreements in all areas
The reform and modernisation of the public administration will not be carried out piecemeal, but with a "Comprehensive Reform Programme" and a "Central Structure" to manage its implementation.
Instilling a sense of security - Security, a citizen's right without restricting his or her freedoms
Objectives
Our main objective is the security of the citizen, without compromising his or her freedoms and individual rights.
With a police force, a fire brigade and a port authority that respects the citizen and respects them.
Provide citizens with immediate assistance when and where they need it.
A police force that ensures a secure environment by dealing effectively with critical incidents, modern forms of crime (trafficking, organised crime) and terrorism.
Effectively protect public and state security.
A police force that will be a pillar of democratic freedoms and citizens' rights,
but at the same time an effective mechanism for preventing and suppressing all forms of crime.
Policies
In a modern European state governed by the rule of law there are no dilemmas between freedom and security.
Citizens can only be secure when their constitutional rights and fundamental freedoms are respected.
When the guarantees of the democratic rule of law apply.
This is the core of European legal and political culture.
We want a society of active citizens, free not only from the risk of crime, but also from fear.
With the state as a partner in the service of citizens' security.
The rapid growth of crime and the new security risks emerging in the global system call for bold policies and actions.
They require a modern anti-crime policy that takes into account the evolution of crime, social changes and transformations, multiculturalism, changes in the labour market and family structure, the emergence of new forms of poverty and social exclusion.
A policy that will exploit the potential in police and fire investigation offered by the use of new technologies, changing the functioning of security forces compared to previous periods.
In this context, a modern police force should operate and perform its social role in accordance with the rule of law, the principle of legality and respect for the Constitution and the European Convention on Human Rights.
The organisation and operation of the police is the responsibility of the State.
However, it must be carried out in close cooperation with regional and local government for the benefit of civil society.
The neighbourhood level is the most critical for the largest number of issues of concern to citizens.
In the Ministry of Public Order we have enshrined the distinction between the political direction of public security policies for citizens and the administrative direction of the Police.
The Ministry of Public Order is merged with the Ministry of Interior, Public Administration and Decentralisation.
Ensure meritocracy and transparency in the selection of the leadership of the Security Forces, with the active participation of Parliament in the process.
We are promoting modern organisation in the Police Departments, the Security Departments, the Fire Brigade and the Coast Guard.
We are strengthening the Municipal Police.
We ensure the disengagement of police officers from guarding "big names", as well as the release of ELAS personnel from other duties and extra work, so that they can be engaged in their main duties, which is the protection of citizens.
Instilling a sense of security - our commitments
A fundamental reorganisation of the Security Bodies with the creation of a new Structure and a new Operating Model.
The changes should be combined with the planned new administrative structure of the country and form an operational model, which will focus on: a) Prevention, cooperation with civil society.
Immediate expansion of the Network of Crime Prevention Councils throughout Greece.
b) To instil a sense of security among citizens.
Our priority is foot patrols and neighborhood policing.
Establishment of a University for the Security Forces and upgrading of the Centre for Security Studies (KEMEA) into an Institute for Anti-Crime and Security Policy of international scientific standing.
Justice that is independent, with quality and speedy delivery
Objectives
We want an independent justice system with speed, quality and transparency in its delivery, with free access to a fair trial for citizens.
Our primary objective is the right to judicial protection, the right to a fair trial, which is the foundation of the rule of law.
The drastic acceleration and simplification of judicial procedures is a prerequisite for an efficient, modern and functional state at the service of the citizen.
Policies
The diptych we will work for is judicial independence and quality in justice.
This means in practice promoting the following policies: Increasing the number of posts, particularly for junior judicial staff, while ensuring continuous training.
An independent judge means a good and modern jurist, a free and responsible judicial officer.
This requires continuous training of a high standard and multilevel, i.e. covering all aspects of the judge's function.
The substantial upgrading of the role of the National School of Magistrates with nationwide coverage of training seminars will contribute to this.
To speed up the delivery of justice, we will introduce new alternative forms of dispute resolution, such as mediation or fast-track arbitration.
The Bar Associations can also play a leading role in this by introducing incentives that will remove matter from the courts, while creating matter for lawyers, improving our legal culture and ultimately our society.
Because the citizen, too, when he learns to consult, when he knows that there is mediation, he seeks a fair compromise and that is how civilisation is built between citizens.
This will reduce the number of disputes that end up in court, which will significantly improve the time it takes to deliver justice in those cases that need it.
At the same time, in order to meet the demand for quality justice, we must proceed to a general modernization of the material and technical level of the Judge,
which must be based on three pillars: Radical procedural simplification,
National codification of legislation,
Universal technological modernization of the Judiciary (such as the introduction of information and communication technologies, the recording of the proceedings of each trial in the courtroom, etc.).
The institutional and functional modernisation of the penitentiary system is also a basic political choice of a state governed by the rule of law. (Modernisation of existing prisons and completion of the programme for the construction of new detention facilities.
Decongest the Prisons by strengthening the social character of the sentence and expanding the alternatives to imprisonment.
Expansion of the rehabilitation programme for drug-addicted prisoners and establishment of rehabilitation units for minors and women.
Strengthening the education of juvenile prisoners.
Operation of Youth Care Units to implement measures to prevent delinquency.
Extend education - training programmes for prisoners, especially in rural prisons and in new areas.
Develop and implement new social reintegration schemes for released prisoners.
Training of prison officers through cooperation between universities and universities of applied sciences).
Justice - our commitments
Increase in the number of full-time positions for judicial officials with parallel, continuous and multi-level training from the upgraded School of Judges.
The introduction and implementation of new, alternative forms of dispute resolution, such as mediation.
Modern codes with the introduction of radical procedural simplifications.
Codification of legislation -- an objective of similar criticality to the National Cadastre.
Fully digitise all justice procedures and interconnect all justice-related services throughout the country.
Mandatory publication of all court judgments on the internet.
Serving citizens by installing "self-service" systems for citizens and lawyers regarding the progress of a case in the country's major courts.
Use of new technologies also for the electronic filing of documents.
We are modernising the penitentiary system institutionally and functionally.
New policy for the countryside
VIII. DEVELOPMENT THROUGHOUT GREECE
The development of the regions, rural and island areas is promoted through full and effective decentralisation
and based on the new development model of Sustainable Development with an emphasis on knowledge and innovation, extroversion, entrepreneurship, sustainable management of land and water resources.
The development potential of the region
The diptych of regional development - decentralisation is at the core of our development plan.
For us, development means a reduction in regional and intra-regional disparities, a new balance between the centre and the region in terms of responsibilities, resources, and a new
and the emergence of new growth poles with a focus on knowledge and innovation, extroversion, entrepreneurship and sustainable management of natural resources.
The main future potential for sustainable growth lies in the dynamic regions that are leading the way both within and outside Greece.
The main lever for the development and convergence of the regions is the development policy implemented by the State with emphasis on Public Investment and the use of Community resources.
We are committed to public investment of 5% of GDP
and to allocating at least 80% of the National Strategic Reference Framework 2007-2013 ("NSRF 2007-2013") resources to the region
with 50% of the NSRF directly to the Regional Operational Programmes.
This is a guarantee of decent funding for a development policy throughout Greece and in every region.
The services provided by the State are a key factor in the attractiveness of a region as a place to live, visit and do business.
Our first objective is the adequacy of state presence and care throughout Greece:
modern, well staffed and equipped schools,
adequate health services and access, especially in case of emergency,
improved municipal services,
public safety.
We want Greeks to enjoy the same state care wherever they live in Greece.
The State to guarantee equal treatment of its citizens.
We want vibrant and attractive local communities in the countryside and on the islands.
To retain and attract to them demographically active populations, improving their quality of life, giving them a sense of security and prospects.
Public investment in basic infrastructure, sufficient incentives for entrepreneurship and the necessary active measures to support employment are not enough for a region to develop on its own.
It is also a prerequisite to gather and activate a critical mass of creative people in knowledge, entrepreneurship, culture, local government
and to foster a spirit of entrepreneurship, development, education and cultural initiatives.
We want each region to become distinct at national and European level.
To acquire its own strong identity, to be a pioneer in its chosen sector, depending on its comparative advantages, geographical location, local human and material resources, cultural and natural heritage.
Regional specialisation may involve the production of high quality agricultural products, the
development of an internationally competitive manufacturing sector, the
exploitation of the geographical position in the new regional geopolitical system,
investment in the natural environment and the implementation of model systems of environmental protection,
the development of local universities and research centres with an international reputation, and
specialisation in new forms of tourism.
In the age of globalisation, mass and uniformity go hand in hand with the search for localism and specificity.
New technologies that compress times and eliminate distances allow for trans-local, borderless, communication and telematic partnerships and networking and transactions that eliminate isolation and foster local development.
Local integrated programmes specify and build on public national and European development policies.
They integrate and encourage local business, social and participatory initiatives.
We highlight high priorities for regional development.
The emergence of the Thessaloniki-Macedonia pole as a champion region of the outward-looking development model in the wider region.
Thessaloniki, a city-region that transcends existing administrative divisions, will emerge through combined interventions as a commercial, transit, financial, educational, technological and tourist centre of the Balkans and South-Eastern Europe.
The development of the country's western axis on the basis of its own comparative advantages.
Priority will be given to new infrastructure such as the railway network, the development of which is the new big gamble, as is water management.
Complete the country's port facilities programme.
Immediate and long-term concrete infrastructure projects in each region with the aim of intra-regional convergence and convergence with Europe.
Develop and implement specific policies within each region to reduce intra-regional disparities.
Our commitments to growth throughout Greece: Public investment of 5% of GDP
and allocation of at least 80% of the CSF to the periphery
with 50% directly to regional operational programmes to finance regional development.
Equal treatment of citizens with adequate state presence and care throughout Greece.
Regions with a strong distinct identity at national and European level, investing in the comparative advantages of each region.
Local integrated development and employment programmes
Rail network - the new grand plan for the country
Development take-off of the hitherto isolated western axis of the country.
Develop and implement specific policies within each region to reduce intra-regional disparities.
The regeneration of run-down areas of urban centres and urban regeneration.
Rural regeneration and agricultural policy
Objectives
PASOK has unbreakable historical links with the rural world and the countryside.
We want to serve a new model of rural development.
We want the Greek countryside to be a privileged area for development and quality of life.
The countryside, the social fabric of small towns and villages throughout the country, is home to about one third of the country's population.
At one time, rural agriculture was the dominant or even exclusive activity in the countryside.
Today it is not enough to provide the desired level of employment and income for all its inhabitants.
This is the result of technical progress and the improved standard of living that families in the Greek countryside rightly seek.
Our aim is to transform the agricultural sector into a dominant and dynamic sector of the rural economy
and to create jobs and incomes in combination with and beyond agricultural production and in new dynamic sectors of supply of goods and services.
To create a quality of life in small towns and villages that will retain and attract a thriving population.
Support strong professional farmers.
To open up prospects for young people.
To guarantee security and care for older farmers completing their productive cycle.
Priority sectors
We want to build, as a priority, internationally competitive advantages in cutting-edge sectors which are: agri-food (agriculture, livestock farming, fisheries)
agri-non-food (agricultural raw materials)
energy, mainly through the use of renewable sources
services, such as thematic tourism linked to the comparative advantages of each region, rural tourism, the organisation of trade with national and European networks, health services, etc.
The agricultural sector is central to this development.
We want our agricultural sectors (subsidised or not) to organise themselves to conquer markets.
To gain the confidence of domestic and foreign consumers.
The development of cutting-edge industries will create synergies at regional and local levels
as well as new supporting and derived economic activities of the cutting-edge sectors with multiplier effects on incomes and employment.
New agricultural policy
Today the circumstances have changed.
Rapid developments throughout the world, the abolition of borders, the explosion of technologies, the ongoing negotiations in the WTO, the reformed CAP create a new landscape for the development of the agricultural sector.
Europe cannot leave its agriculture at the mercy of globalisation and international competition.
At the same time, however, European agriculture is obliged to provide convincing answers to the major issues of the day: unemployment, environmental degradation and food safety.
The CIP is an important tool in the formulation of our policies for the rural sector and rural development.
We are promoting the interests of the country within it during the negotiations and with its help.
We can and we have proven that we can defend the CAP and Greek agriculture in the European Union and the WTO with a plan and determination.
We are committed to co-financing EU rural programmes with sufficient national resources
We will manage Community development resources in a planned, transparent and accountable way and use the redistributive tools of the new CAP to support young farmers, quality and environmentally friendly agriculture and livestock farming.
The administrative costs for the distribution and payments of the new SPS entitlements will be borne exclusively by the State and not by the farmers.
We are using the new CIP for development.
At the same time we are designing national policies aimed at a dynamic - competitive - outward-looking agricultural sector.
Consolidation of the profession of farmer
The Farmer's Identity Card is the key to priority access to programmes, knowledge, incentives and services.
We believe in professional farmers who, with the help of the State, develop productive processing, commercial and agri-tourism initiatives, and are informed, trained and educated throughout their productive life.
We will rely on young farmers for the agriculture of the future.
We will support young farmers with an integrated system of incentives, linking agricultural schools with the young farmers' programmes, the national reserve of rights, the development law and the entrepreneurship programmes of the 4th Community Support Framework.
In order to support small agricultural enterprises, we are creating a Guarantee Fund in the agricultural sector as well.
The Fund will support small agricultural enterprises by offering a guarantee to the small business - professional farmer for the approval of his loan, except in cases expressly excluded under Community regulations.
Supporting quality
Strengthening the competitiveness of our products by guaranteeing and promoting their quality.
Utilisation of the nutritional products that make up the well-known Mediterranean dietary pattern.
We will seek to identify Greek products with quality products on a global level.
Expansion of certified standards and support for the production of quality Greek products of Designation of Origin and Geographical Indication, Integrated Management, Organic Agriculture and Livestock identified through certified standards.
Evaluation, modernisation and reinforcement of certification and control systems for the quality and safety of agricultural products.
Harmonization with international consumer standards,
Reduction of the cost of certification of product quality for the Greek producer.
Strengthening "Local Quality Pacts" with specific labelling for products and services of regions.
We are categorically opposed to the spread of genetically modified crops.
We will require clear and prominent labelling on products containing Genetically Modified Organisms.
Investing in knowledge
We want to open up prospects through knowledge, especially for young people, who consciously choose farming and other rural professions, seeking information, education, basic and lifelong training.
Information and information networks for farmers with a single and efficient Farmers' Advisory System covering the whole range of information and technical support for farmers.
A modern system that ensures the activity - in a competitive and transparent environment - of the public sector, regional development agencies, local authorities, cooperative organisations and private individuals.
The State shall certify, evaluate, monitor and support advisory service providers to provide services where appropriate free of charge or at affordable cost.
We strengthen the services of the local authorities with geotechnical engineers.
In all the rural municipalities of the country, the K.E.P. provide one-stop services for information, information and support for the entrepreneurial activity of farmers.
Research: Particular emphasis will be given to the development of research through the upgrading of the NTIARC and its interconnection with university and technological institutions in line with international standards.
Its research work will be carried out in the framework of multiannual programmes for the State and at a cost to the companies.
We give priority to applied research on propagating material, indigenous animal breeds, new crops and the best ways to use existing ones.
The financing of programmes shall be linked to the effectiveness of their implementation and the measurable results thereof.
Innovation: Incentives for the production and exploitation of technological innovations on farms.
A nationwide network of "model" farms for the application of exemplary agricultural production methods.
Awards for excellence for universities, universities of applied sciences, research institutions and enterprises and cooperating producers.
Vocational Education-Training: model rural schools, one in each rural region, making them also lifelong training centres.
The teaching of foreign languages and the use of computers is being promoted as a priority in secondary schools and grammar schools in small rural towns.
Purchase: Cleansing and Organisation
We will clash with interests that lead to harmonised practices of companies active in the sectors of marketing and processing of agricultural products.
Control of the purchase of agricultural inputs with a view to reducing production costs.
Strict measures to ensure the functioning of healthy competition with a view to reducing the price gap between producers and consumers.
Reform the marketing and distribution regime for agricultural and fishery products and the operation of farmers' markets.
Register of Traders in Agricultural Products.
A new way of controlling means of transport.
A blacklist of Agricultural Traders (ACPs) who will have bounced cheques and will be deprived of the right to practise as a trader for 5 years and, in case of recurrence, for life.
All agricultural cooperative associations, producer groups and other forms of agricultural organisations are notified of the Register of Traders in Agricultural Products, as well as the Black List.
New Land Policy
Our aim is to achieve economically viable farming, the
concentration of luxury land, and the
creation of favourable conditions for the use and rental of land.
Agricultural land, public and private, is protected in the context of land-use planning and is available exclusively for agricultural use.
Pastures, forests, grasslands and woodlands are defined and mapped.
With special measures, with tax incentives and disincentives, we are driving the land to those who cultivate it.
A flexible and decentralised Rural Land Management Body is created at regional level to facilitate this policy and the use of public and local authority land for the benefit of farmers.
Environment: a source of wealth and life
The environment for us is a Greek comparative advantage for the development of the countryside, which should be based more solidly on Greek land, sea and their natural resources.
It supports alternative economic activities.
It creates additional sources of income for rural residents.
It adds value to the agricultural products produced.
Utilisation of the country's water resources through infrastructure such as the construction of reservoirs and small dams, completion of major projects, desalination projects for the needs of our islands in particular, and projects for the reuse of treated wastewater for non-sensitive uses.
Encourage the implementation of water-efficient irrigation systems.
Modernisation of old irrigation works.
Creation of underground irrigation networks.
Combined management of water resource development projects to serve multiple uses.
Protection, enhancement and utilisation of forests.
We recognise the importance of the conservation and sustainable management of forest ecosystems and the conservation of biodiversity in the natural environment.
The degree of forest use will be directly related to the ability to regenerate forests.
Forest maps are being drawn up immediately and extensive reforestation and mountain water works programmes are being implemented.
Suburban forests, Forest Villages and mountain bike trails will be developed.
The responsibility for the planning and implementation of the Forest Policy, together with the responsible departments of the Ministry of Environment, is transferred to the Ministry of Environment.
We will take advantage of the pro-environmental dimension of the new C.E.P. by integrating it into the production process and adding value to the products.
We will tackle nitrate pollution and the inappropriate use of pesticides through specific programmes.
Utilising the network of protected areas (Natura 2000), through the management bodies and through targeted development initiatives.
Fisheries: Strengthen the aquaculture sector through a modern institutional framework.
Develop marine fisheries through the modern application of environmental rules that ensure the future of the fisheries sector and the sustainable management of fish stocks.
Collective forms of organisation of farmers
The existing cooperative structure has largely come full circle.
General purpose cooperatives are the same, much more so for seal cooperatives.
All these must be replaced by sectoral cooperatives or other forms of collective organisation - economic units, based on a sound business basis.
We want to upgrade and provide incentives to support the role and operational capacity of cooperative organisations so that they become an effective link between agricultural production and the market.
Forms of collective organisation are a condition and prerequisite for strengthening the bargaining power of farmers, promoting contract farming, effective access to marketing and distribution networks for agricultural products, reducing production costs, access to knowledge and information to facilitate producers and the transition to quality agriculture.
Renewable energy sources in the countryside
We will use rural areas and natural resources for the effective promotion of renewable energy sources, improving the energy sufficiency and decoupling of the country and its regions from consumable and polluting energy sources.
Support for the cultivation of energy crops and exemption from excise duty on biofuels produced from them.
Encourage the creation of biofuel production units by producer groups.
Financial incentives for the use of Renewable Energy Sources in agricultural and livestock farms, taking advantage of the developing new technologies in the sector (e.g. photovoltaics).
Promoting heat production from biomass and the use of geothermal sources.
New services and activities in the countryside
We want to invest in human resources and new types of infrastructure to enable the development of networks and support structures for the development of services in rural areas.
Linking the regional development plan to the local specificities and assets of each region based on culture, environment and food model.
Incentives for theme parks and the creation of national theme networks (e.g. wine) or European theme networks (e.g. lake tourism).
Rural tourism: in combination with other forms of tourism, the component of multi-sectoral rural development and a sustainable developmental shift of Greek tourism away from the current mass model.
The model we promote is characterised by
the harmonious linking of tourist infrastructure and services with the physiognomy of each area and the creation of a network of social services;
the protection and promotion of the specific natural, residential, cultural and gastronomic identity of each place and its products.
The creation of a complex tourist product;
the extension of the tourist season
the operation of women's cooperatives
the operation of "local quality pacts"
cultural creation similar to those of urban centres
the education, training and technical support of the local population and the entrepreneurs involved.
Our commitments for the countryside and the agricultural sector: Renegotiation with the European Commission to mitigate the negative impact of the South West policy on critical sectors (e.g. tobacco).
Opposition to the European Union's decision to re-discuss the financing of European agriculture in 2008
Co-financing of EU programmes for the countryside with sufficient national resources.
Burden exclusively on the State, and not on farmers, for the administrative costs of implementing the new CAP
Transforming the Ministry of Rural Development and Food into an executive body for planning rural development.
We are effectively decentralising services and agencies such as OPEKEPE, OPEGEP, etc.
The services of the Ministry of Rural Development are transferred to the new Kapodistrian municipalities.
One-stop services are provided in all the rural municipalities of the country to provide information, information and support for farmers' activities.
Modernise ELGA, reform its regulations and extend the coverage of insurance risks.
A specific programme to address climate change.
Inclusion of rural investments in the actions of the 4th CIP and the Development Law.
Creation of a single and efficient Advisory System, covering the whole range of information, technical support and entrepreneurship for farmers.
Transparency in the management of Community aid, use of the redistributive tools of the National Reserve and Quality Reserves (publication of names of beneficiaries, publication of criteria for their distribution).
Simplify and speed up the procedures for the integration of farmers' investment programmes for the creation or improvement of their holdings.
Market consolidation and organisation.
Monthly welfare pension for the farmers' couple 950 euros.
Special development programmes with priority for declining rural areas and areas affected by basic products.
Encourage the transfer of land to those who cultivate it, through specific measures, including tax measures.
Programmes for the establishment of young scientists in the countryside to support business activity and the creation of agricultural holdings.
Supporting young couples with special incentives to stay in mountainous, island, declining and disadvantaged areas.
Incentives for the production and exploitation of technological innovations on farms.
Creation of a Guarantee Fund for the financing of small agricultural enterprises.
Supporting the quality of Greek products.
Extension of certified standards and support for products with Designation of Origin and Geographical Indication, Integrated Management, Organic Agriculture and Livestock.
Creation of a nationwide network of "model farms".
Creation of a cooperative farmers' school at tertiary level for the training of certified farmers and rural development officers.
Establishment of model agricultural schools in rural regions to extend the education and training of farmers throughout their productive life.
Strengthening new forms of collective organisation of farmers.
Activation of the Single Water Resources Management Entity and the corresponding regional ones.
Completion of major and creation of small water collection and storage projects.
Modernisation and extension of irrigation networks in order to reduce production costs and save water resources.
Transfer of responsibility for forest policy from the Ministry of Rural Development to the Ministry of Environment.
Immediate preparation of forest maps, extensive reforestation programme, utilisation and protection of peri-urban forests, forest villages and mountain bike paths.
The uniqueness of our island complex
Our debt to our islands
Our islands, cradles of great civilisations, tell our history throughout time and are unique monuments of nature and human creation.
It is our duty to highlight, preserve and exploit this precious heritage.
Our objectives
Every public policy applied to our islands takes into account their specificity, so that it produces the same results for islanders as for the citizens of the rest of Greece.
Ensure the application of the principle of Universal Service to all islanders.
We are turning the whole of the islands into an area of advanced telematics applications and innovation everywhere (in Health, Administration, Education, Employment, Entrepreneurship).
Our policies
We are redesigning ALL our island policies, incorporating the European and National acquis, transforming "Islandness" from a disadvantage to a comparative advantage.
With our active Island Policies we seek to: Promote a new development model for the island area, based on the sustainable use of the unique environmental and cultural resources of our islands
and aiming at the removal of intra-regional inequalities in the island area.
Development of a modern combined transport network that will ensure easy accessibility to each island region.
Completion of transport infrastructure on all islands and redesign of the maritime transport system, based on the real needs of the islands to communicate with each other and with mainland Greece.
Integrated health protection of the islands.
Creation of modern island-type health units of all levels, with the development of a telemedicine network and their connection to the EHIC.
Health protection of the island area with modern island-type health units and the operation of a reliable air ambulance system.
Establishment of specific incentives to strengthen island entrepreneurship,
with the aim of improving the quality of services and products,
safeguarding employment
and protecting the island environment.
Ensuring energy self-sufficiency and adequate water supply for our islands through the use of Renewable Energy Sources.
Creation of a Special Fund (Cohesion Fund) for weak local authorities, mainly in the island regions.
Establishment of an island impact assessment procedure for all legislation.
Establishment of specific incentives to attract and retain skilled human resources on the islands.
Our commitments for our islands:
All our public policies take into account the specificities of island regions.
Full implementation of the principle of universal service on our islands.
Organisation of maritime transport based on the real needs of the islands to communicate with each other and with mainland Greece.
"A ship to all the islands every day".
Health protection of the islands and a reliable air transport system.
Immediate promotion of technological infrastructures in order to implement the most advanced technologies in all the islands (TVET-Administration, TVET-Medicine, TVET-Education, TVET-Labour).
Sustainable use of the unique environmental and cultural resources of our islands.
Ensuring energy self-sufficiency and adequate water supply, mainly through the use of Renewable Energy Sources.
Strengthening island entrepreneurship, with special incentives to ensure quality and employment.
Establishment of specific incentives to attract and retain skilled human resources on the islands.
A strong and reliable Greece
IX. GREECE OF THE OPEN HORIZONS
New National Strategy for Confidence and Initiative
The new patriotic challenge for the Greek progressive and socialist party is, beyond our territorial integrity, to guarantee the strong and effective voice of our people in global developments.
To participate dynamically and decisively in regional and global organisations to promote the interests of our citizens.
Europe is our privileged space for participation.
Our challenge is to fight for a more democratic, social and ecological Europe.
A more autonomous European voice.
A Europe in solidarity with the world's poor.
A Europe of peace and cooperation.
The patriotic challenge is to conquer in the minds of our neighbours, the European and international community, the identity of the agent of peace, justice and development for our region.
The moral challenge for Hellenism is to be a force of contribution to the new world civilization that is taking shape.
The words, democracy, philosophy, ecology, health, health, market, education, knowledge, parliament, city, citizen, truce, are identified with Hellenism.
In serving these values, we are inculcating values necessary for a democratic and peaceful global society
, which, although multicultural, can and must draw its cohesion from common values.
In this world we have a place, a role and a duty as Greeks.
A Greece of values, an ethical Greece, will be a strong Greece.
Our country had been put by the PASOK governments on the track of facing global socio-economic challenges and upheavals.
We have built a strong Greece.
From the Olympic Games, our international prestige, our position in the UN (serving as a non-permanent member of the Security Council, 2005-2006), but also our position in the wider region, our participation in the narrow core of the European Union, our development course.
The New National Strategy
The strong Greece of active presence in European and international developments, of participation in the shaping of international decisions and the peaceful resolution of problems, of realism and dynamic extroversion, remains for PASOK the firm strategic goal for Greece in the 21st century.
Maximising the benefits derived from Greece's geographical and strategic position in the wider region, as well as from its participation in the institutions of the European Union and international organisations, is a necessary condition for defending the national interests, security,
economic and social development of our country.
Today, with the ND government, Greece is absent from Europe and the international system.
The phobic syndromes of the right in Greece lead to inertia and place the hopes for the solution of the country's problems in the moods of third parties, in time, in circumstance.
Today Greece lacks a strategy and is limited to fragmentary tactical manipulations in foreign policy.
The foreign policy of the New Democracy is clearly below the circumstances.
Deadlocks are building up and negative developments are taking shape for our national interests.
Over the last three years, Greece has been facing constant surprises and an increasingly difficult position in terms of our national objectives.
The notion that "no position is a position" is a dead end.
Non-positioning is driving the country to the margins.
As a result, the country's specific gravity is constantly decreasing.
The government of the New Democracy left the fact of Greece's appointment as a member of the UN Security Council completely unused.
A position that the country won thanks to the efforts of PASOK.
It fails to exploit the country's potential for critical international policy initiatives, such as the timely debate on the need for international coordination on natural disasters and sustainable development, but also on issues such as the development of democracy in the Islamic world.
PASOK is inspired and guided in its foreign policy by the principles of international law, respect for international treaties and decisions of the UN and the EU,
the defence of democratic principles, human rights and the rights of minorities,
respect for the sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity of all states.
The foreign policy of our Movement has been and remains, consistently, a policy of peace, security and prosperity for the Greek people
and of equal cooperation and coexistence with all peoples.
PASOK promotes a comprehensive, multidimensional and consistent New National Strategy for Greece's foreign policy, for the country's position in the international system, in the European Union, in the wider region of South-Eastern Europe and the Middle East.
PASOK's policy contributed to the formation of a new patriotism, a new national self-confidence and confidence in the strength of our nation and our people.
With his initiatives, he has created a serious fund of certainty for the Greek citizen.
Greece has come out of introversion and fear.
It has become a factor in solving the problems in our region.
The Greek people want the country to be strong and a pioneer in Europe, in the Balkans, in the South-Eastern Mediterranean.
This is the Greece that PASOK will defend again.
PASOK assumes responsibility for the decisions and initiatives that our era demands, in a period of constant change and shifts in the balance of power in Europe and the wider region.
European Union
Europe is the natural strategic space for Greece.
The immediate priority of the PASOK Government is for Greece to regain the prestige, credibility and credibility in the Union that it had
before the isolationist, inward-looking and short-sighted foreign policy of the New Democracy.
Ensuring Greece's equal position and active participation in the co-design of the future institutional and political architecture of the EU are key priorities of PASOK's European policy.
We firmly support the objectives of European integration and deepening of common policies, of a
Europe of a strong economy, knowledge and a modern welfare state, of a
Europe of democracy and citizens, of a Europe of
cultural and religious diversity, of a
strong Europe in the international system, of a
Europe of sustainable development and environmental balance.
In this context, we support a new architecture for the EU budget, with an increase in own resources and a guarantee to finance cohesion, growth, employment, research, innovation and environmental protection.
We also support the broadening of the European Central Bank's objectives towards growth and employment.
After joining EMU, our strategic goal is to create a political union and to place Greece in the vanguard of countries that are willing and able to move forward.
The next four years will be crucial for the future of Europe, but also for our country's place in the new European institutions.
The new PASOK Government will again play a leading role in the negotiations on institutional reforms and the Treaty establishing a European Constitution.
Our Movement, with the rich experience of four successful Presidencies, will fight for Greece to be at the forefront of European integration and political unification, of a strong democratic, economic and social Europe.
Southeast Europe
Our national strategy for the Balkans, relations with Turkey, the resolution of the Cyprus problem, the development of relations with the powers that determine developments in the international system, is for PASOK a dynamic element of the broader European strategy that we have formulated and followed as a government.
This strategy is based on respect for the principles of international law, international treaties, UN decisions and the defence, on the basis of the EU's joint decisions, of the European perspective, with a view to eventual integration into the European institutions.
The consolidation of the Balkans' accession perspective was a major achievement of the Thessaloniki European Council in June 2003.
This Thessaloniki strategy and Greece's leading role have been abandoned by the New Democracy government.
The accession of Bulgaria and Romania to the EU was an event of historic importance for South-Eastern Europe and Greece.
For the first time, Greece was also linked territorially with the other EU Member States.
The New Democracy Government has failed to prepare the country, especially Macedonia and Thrace, for the opportunities and challenges of this positive development.
In our relations with FYROM, the prolonged immobility of Greek diplomacy under the New Democracy, culminating in the recognition of FYROM under its constitutional name by the US, the wrong strategic choices of alliances, the acceptance of the Nimitz package as a basis for negotiations, have put Greece in a less favourable position for any future negotiations.
The New Democracy Government's policy allows Greece's right to defend its national interests by making use of European and international treaties to be questioned.
The European strategy of the Balkan countries is a major investment in peace, security and shared prosperity.
In this context, Greece should promote a mutually acceptable solution to the issue of the name of the FYROM.
A single name with mutual respect for the specific geographical, cultural and historical characteristics of the two peoples.
In the framework of an agreement, the implementation of which is a basic precondition for the country's EU accession course in accordance with the Copenhagen criteria,
PASOK is committed to making Greece once again the "engine" of the European course of the Balkan countries, as the only credible strategy for stability, security and European problem-solving.
On the issue of Kosovo in particular, the final solution, the viability of which requires the consensus of all parties involved, must be directly and bindingly linked to the region's accession perspective.
Only within the EU framework can and should a solution be sought.
Resolution of the Cyprus problem
The accession of the Republic of Cyprus to the EU, to which PASOK contributed decisively, creates new data for the resolution of the political problem.
PASOK is committed to taking all necessary initiatives in the EU and the UN with a view to resolving the Cyprus problem, in accordance with UN resolutions, the Treaties and principles of the European Union and the European acquis.
A stable strategic goal for PASOK is a just, functional and viable solution
and the creation of a bi-zonal and bi-communal federation, which will safeguard the interests of the Greek Cypriot and Turkish Cypriot citizens within the framework of the EU.
Preventing in any way the institutionalisation of the partition of the island, which constitutes the current unacceptable status quo, has always been PASOK's priority.
PASOK, among other things, will undertake, as a government, an international initiative for the withdrawal of the occupation troops from Cyprus in the direction of resolving the political problem.
There is no place for occupying troops in the European family.
In the context of the implementation of the Turkey-EU negotiating framework, for Greece and PASOK, the demand remains strong for: the immediate and full implementation of the Customs Union Protocol with the 10 new EU member states, and the recognition of the Cyprus Republic.
Relations with Turkey
PASOK consistently supports the policy pursued towards Turkey to foster a climate of mutual trust and its European perspective, in accordance with the European acquis.
Supporting Turkey's European course has never been a blank cheque for us.
It was accompanied by specific commitments from Ankara, as they emerged - with specific timetables - on the basis of the positions of the Helsinki European Council in December 1999,
and in particular: Ankara's obligation to contribute constructively to the settlement of the Cyprus problem within the framework of UN decisions, the European treaties and the acquis communautaire;
Turkey's obligation, like any candidate country, to adopt and implement the European acquis, which includes the international treaties binding the Union, includingthe Convention on the Law of the Sea, the
resolution of the problem of the continental shelf by compulsory recourse to the International Court of Justice in The Hague, the
reopening of the Halki Theological School,
recognition of the Ecumenical role of the Patriarchate,
respect for the rights of the Greek minority in Istanbul, Imbros and Tenedos.
The government of the New Democracy, by political choice, has in practice cancelled the Helsinki strategy.
The opening of accession negotiations with Turkey, a development of historic importance for the whole of Europe, was not accompanied by clear provisions, specific safeguards and timetables for safeguarding Greek interests.
In the negotiating framework, the general interests of the Union and the specific interests of the Member States were safeguarded, with the sole exception of the interests of Greece and Cyprus.
PASOK will make up for lost ground also within the European framework with a new "Helsinki".
To safeguard our country's interests and our sovereign rights.
Without fearful syndromes, with a clear strategy, with a plan, with hard work.
The accession of Cyprus to the European Union is irrefutable proof that Greece, when it wants to,
PASOK will seek to re-establish the conditions for improving Greek-Turkish relations in a European framework, as it had achieved with the Helsinki policy.
In this context we propose a New National Strategy for Peace and Security in the region: the
first step is to take the initiative for de-escalation and détente and to prepare the conditions for a targeted political dialogue, in accordance with the principles of international law and international legitimacy.
The delimitation of the continental shelf shall be effected by referring the matter, by way of a compromise, to the International Court of Justice in The Hague.
The obvious precedent, at that stage, is the exercise of our right to extend our territorial waters, in accordance with international treaties.
Objective: a Peace and Security Pact with Turkey.
For the gradual and balanced reduction of equipment.
To secure the "peace dividend" and free up resources for education, health, welfare, social policy.
For the benefit of both peoples.
Greece on the international stage
Under the PASOK governments, Greece, shaking off the subservience of maintenance, gained a voice and presence in the European and international arena, culminating in the "Initiative of the 6" for peace, the four Greek presidencies in the European Union, the election of Greece as a non-permanent member of the UN Security Council and the organisation of the Athens Olympics.
The new Government of PASOK is committed to restoring the international prestige of the country, which has been damaged by the non-existence of the foreign policy of the New Democracy Government.
We will not let the subservience of the New Democracy become subservience for Greece again.
In this context, the Government of PASOK, making use of the Movement's roots in the Socialist International, will work systematically for: a) Democratization of Globalization.
We will bring Greece back to the forefront of the international movement for: Global sustainable development, The
eradication of poverty,
Non-proliferation of nuclear weapons, and the reduction of uncontrolled spending on armaments,
for the benefit of education and health.
Addressing the causes and consequences of climate change immediately.
The struggle for the respect of human rights without exception, with the abolition of the death penalty, the prohibition of torture and the closure of Guantanamo-type concentration camps.
The fight for Fair Trade and not just Free Trade.
The struggle for decent jobs for every citizen of the world.
Addressing the consequences of the AIDS scourge, particularly on the African continent.
We aim to build a multilateral system of global governance, democratically legitimised, with an upgraded UN at its centre.
Unilateral interventions perpetuate the problem, fuel violence, undermine the peaceful coexistence of cultures.
b) Relations of parity with major and emerging world powers.
PASOK is committed to promoting equal relations with the USA, deepening relations with Russia and promoting cooperation with the emerging powers, China and India.
The Mediterranean, Middle East and Black Sea regions are strategically important areas for strengthening our country's presence.
c) Peace in the Middle East and the resolution of the "Palestinian question".
PASOK says: "No to a new Iraq in the Middle East region".
We strongly and consistently support the creation of two states, Israel and Palestine, based on mutual recognition, coexisting in peace and security.
The condemnation of violence, the continuation of the peace process launched in Oslo in 1993 and the implementation of the Quartet's Road Map are the best way to settle the Israeli-Palestinian conflict.
The PASOK Government will work for the holding of an international conference on the Middle East, as already proposed by the Movement, with the participation of all the states of the region and all the interested parties of the international community.
d) The peaceful coexistence of cultures, with the eradication of poverty
and the formation of new models of peace for the resolution of armed conflicts and the creation of bridges of peace.
We will not be able to eradicate terrorism unless we fight the causes that foster it.
We are building on the prestige and traditional relations of the country cultivated by the PASOK Governments to promote the dialogue of cultures and the development of democracy in the Islamic world.
To make Greece again a "bridge" of understanding between cultures.
New forms of diplomacy - Institutional changes in the field of foreign policy
In today's conditions of international relations, new forms and instruments are needed to promote foreign policy objectives and our national interests.
A modern and dynamic foreign policy requires the development of new forms of diplomacy (economic and business diplomacy, humanitarian aid diplomacy, civil society and NGOs).
It also requires the restructuring and modernisation of institutions and procedures for formulation, promotion and control.
The PASOK Government will immediately promote: a substantial upgrading of the Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, as well as the Committee on European Affairs of the Parliament.
Restructuring and new modern organisational structure of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
Creation of new Directorates and modernisation of the admission procedure in the diplomatic field.
Modernise the functioning and composition of the National Foreign Policy Council, in the light of experience, to make it a genuine strategic adviser to the Government.
Cooperation of the MFA with scientific networks and universities in Greece and abroad.
Hellenism of the Diaspora
The Hellenism of the Diaspora is for our Movement the constant and consistent defender of the interests of the country, of our linguistic, cultural and national identity.
We are proud of the institutional work and the policies we have promoted as a Government.
We will strengthen the work and mission of the Council of Hellenes Abroad, and the homogeneity of organisations, promote programmes and support Greek studies chairs abroad.
We are promoting, after consultation, the Greek Institute for the Promotion of the Greek Language, Culture and Arts, which unifies, coordinates and strengthens the current presence of the homogeneity around the world.
We will strengthen relations with the younger generations of Greeks in the diaspora and create new bridges of educational, economic, business and cultural communication with the homeland.
To this end, we will build on and upgrade the function and role of our Embassies and Consulates.
We also attach great importance to the role of the Orthodox Church, the diaspora and the Presbyterian Patriarchates.
The further strengthening of their activities is a key priority of PASOK's policy for the Greek Diaspora.
The Hellenism of the diaspora is a bridge of friendship and cooperation in 140 countries - new homelands of the Ecumenical Hellenism.
National Defence - Security for Greeks
The strong and reliable presence of Greece in our region, in Europe and in the international system presupposes the existence of reliable and effective armed forces
and the continuous qualitative strengthening and deepening of their deterrent power.
The human factor, our cadres and our enlisted youth will always be at the centre of PASOK's policy.
Improving education, working, housing and living conditions,
solution of their problems is a political responsibility and obligation for PASOK, in the context of the economic and social policy it will pursue.
The subversion of the operational planning and the structure of the Armed Forces by the New Democracy Government has created serious problems of functionality and has contributed to the increase in expenditure and costs for the country's defence.
Our aim is to maximise the sense of security of citizens and to respect the sacrifices of the Greek taxpayer.
For PASOK, the rationalisation of defence spending is a dynamic function of the modernisation of the Armed Forces, the development of a strong, competitive and leading national defence industry and a peaceful regional environment.
We consistently support transparency in defence equipment and we have proposed, for all procurement, open international tenders, under the control of the competent committee of the Greek Parliament, and the complete abolition of direct awards.
We have, at the same time, formulated a new programme for the development of the Greek defence industries, by funding research and technology, by linking with the European defence industry and the European Armaments Agency, but also with the Greek Universities and Research Institutes.
The Greek Defence Industry is a national wealth and contributes to the economic and social development of the country.
PASOK stresses the need for an integrated investment strategy and says no to the policy of devaluation of the productive and defensive fabric of the country by the government of the New Democracy.
PASOK, assessing the threat and security risks in the contemporary near and wider geopolitical environment and taking into account the obligations arising from the country's participation in collective security organisations, adopts a National Defence Policy framework that will serve the triptych of peace, security and cooperation.
Greece, making use of its diplomatic institutional and political advantages, will re-establish the conditions for peace and stability and thus the conditions for the "peace dividend".
The implementation of this policy requires Armed Forces capable of: Deter the threat against the country
Protect territorial integrity and national sovereignty
Counter risks from asymmetric threats
Cover the needs of the doctrine of the Common Defence Space between Greece and Cyprus.
Ability to respond to the obligations arising from the country's participation in international collective security organisations.
Active participation in the response to natural and technical disasters
Systematising and improving social outreach
Implementation measures and actions: New structure of the Ministry of National Defence with reform of the institutional framework
Reorganisation of the Armed Forces on the basis of the efficiency/cost principle, with a 15-year perspective, with
emphasis on interdisciplinarity,
with extensive use of new technologies,
with the creation of flexible, fast-moving units, fully staffed, highly trained and equipped with modern, high-powered weapons
and capable of carrying out autonomous and combined operations
, while at the same time eliminating, merging and reorienting formations and units in accordance with operational requirements.
Rationalise defence spending while establishing a new institutional framework to enhance transparency and parliamentary scrutiny of arms programmes.
Supporting a sustainable and competitive defence industry through participation in international consortia, linking with the European defence industry, supporting existing systems and participating in research programmes.
The rationalisation of expenditure on the above will save resources, which together with the "peace dividend" will be used for social expenditure.
Development of human resources as a key factor in the strength of the Armed Forces with the main axes: upgrading the academic, professional, social and economic level of military and civilian personnel,
ensuring meritocracy and equal opportunities in training, evaluation and recruitment, linking development to the performance of each member of the Armed Forces (change of the institutional framework)
, support - improvement of the institution of professional soldiers.
- reviewing the length of service, in the light of defence needs and social problems and in connection with the recruitment of professional soldiers, with a view to reducing the period of service to less than 12 months.
Fair Society
Strong Greece
