Today, in the midst of a multifaceted political, economic and social crisis affecting our country, the need for an integrated exit strategy is imperative.
An exit strategy that must share the burden fairly, defend social cohesion and social solidarity,
not to leave a heavy ecological footprint for the sake of any development effort
and finally to renew and reconstruct the country in a democratic and institutional way.
The multi-layered Greek crisis is due to the political system.
This, with the main responsibility of PASOK and ND, created the client state, appropriated the public administration and led the country into the quagmire of corruption.
Today, the commitments that our country has undertaken through the loan agreements lead to a deadlock.
Neither is the public debt becoming sustainable, nor is there any prospect of growth,
but in addition the burdens of this fiscal adjustment are deconstructing society.
Social cohesion is under threat, the welfare state is collapsing, labour relations are being deregulated and acquired rights are being lost.
We are moving further and further away from the European social model.
Apart from these, conditions contained in the Memorandum, which have to do with the use of public property and the irrational prioritisation of needs and priorities, placing the need to repay the debt above social needs, constitute an explosive mixture, a politically conservative and economically ineffective recipe.
In the context of these circumstances, the main objective of the Democratic Left is to keep the country within the European framework, the euro, with the economy alive and society standing.
The programme of the Democratic Left goes beyond the Memorandum.
It is a realistic set of proposals for a way out of the crisis and a fair sharing of the burden of this effort.
It is a detailed and specialised programme articulated around eight (8) main axes:
Overthrow of the political system and the establishment
Fiscal adjustment with the economy alive and society on its feet
New type of development with social priorities
and environmental protection
Immediate relief measures - Modern and effective welfare state
Dynamic integration into the knowledge society
Quality of life, every day, everywhere
Open horizons for youth
Greece is a European power in the world
Axes that reveal our priorities and commitments.
Axes that give the outline of the solution.
Programmatic positions aiming at the progressive governance of the country.
The Democratic Left is committed to the necessary ruptures and reversals.
With boldness and determination, guided by our principles and guided by our programmatic commitments to every Greek, we propose to overcome.
Overcoming the crisis, overcoming the problems, overcoming the weaknesses.
Now is the time, now is the historic moment.
Paradigm shift.
A different Greece in a social Europe is our vision.
Together we will make it a reality.
1. OVERTHROW OF THE POLITICAL SYSTEM AND THE ESTABLISHMENT
The multifaceted crisis facing the country is primarily a political problem.
The structural weaknesses of the political system turned into a problem of political governance of the country and this in turn led to the acute economic problem.
Therefore, any intervention aimed at avoiding collapse and any strategy for a way out of the crisis must convincingly answer the first problem - that of the political system.
The aim is the autonomy of the political system from extra-institutional centres of influence, quality governance, faithful representation and representation of society and citizens, but also strict control, accountability, institutional checks and balances.
These changes will not have a negative fiscal impact and at the same time will increase the effectiveness of public policies.
The first challenge today is a restructured, productive and effective state.
State and public administration in new directions, arms of the country's recovery effort
under the guidance of a radically different political system.
A state that ensures social justice, education, health, environment, culture and fosters real development.
A rule of law that upholds citizens' rights and safeguards their freedoms.
A state based on a new relationship of rights and obligations.
A public administration that will cope with the demands of both the reconstruction effort of the country and respond to the challenges and meet the needs of citizens.
The Democratic Left proposes as a basic pillar of its programmatic proposal the change of the political system and, by extension, of the state and the public administration.
This change is a prerequisite for laying the foundations for an exit from the crisis.
and to acquire a state that is a lever of development, a state capable of serving the citizen, the needs of the country.
Control of political money, by changing the composition of the Commission of Article 29 par. 2 of the Constitution, so that politicians do not hold the majority.
Retrospective control of the assets of those who have served as prime ministers, ministers, members of parliament from 1981 to the present day.
Control of all property transfers made to spouses and relatives of Members.
Amend the law on the responsibility of ministers.
Publicity and transparency of the parties' finances.
Mandatory reporting in the tax return of those who support party organisations.
Bringing the terms of lending to parties by banking institutions on a par with those of individuals and businesses
Strengthening of the financial history of political persons
and seizure of assets that are not justified in favour of the State.
The relationship between the media and the political system is a top issue of credibility and transparency.
It is a question of democracy.
The combination of private interests with the power of the media and their interlocking with politicians and parties to serve selfish purposes is an aberration that must be stopped.
The creation of an institutional framework that clearly regulates media issues is the only way to eliminate the phenomena of interference and extra-institutional interference in political life.
The Democratic Left puts forward as basic principles for the regulation of this key area:
Binding regulatory framework.
Strengthening and cooperation between independent authorities ESR and EETT.
Rationalising spending on public television without compromising quality.
Our goal is a public television that is pluralistic, independent and competitive.
ERT is a modern, public body of expression and must be the medium that gives the opportunity of public visibility to every organised collective that is active in the country and wishes to communicate with society.
ERT must be the institutional public forum of the citizen organised in a collective.
It should be politically controlled by a bipartisan committee (and not by a governmental body), which would also appoint the executive bodies of its administration.
Allocation of state advertising according to objective criteria.
Ensuring the financial viability of SMEs through audits
Halving of state subsidies to the parties represented in parliament and coverage of the necessary election expenses of all parties taking part in the elections
A review of how parties are funded.
In addition to the prohibitions on financing of article 7 of Law 3023/2002, the following must also be prohibited:The financing of parties by companies in Greece or abroad, as well as foreign companies.
The participation of political parties in the corporate capital of enterprises.
An exception is the participation in NPIs that are exclusively related to the dissemination of ideas and political opinions and are purely active in the publishing or broadcasting sector, provided that the parties hold the majority of the company's capital.
The balance sheets of these companies are audited by chartered accountants and made public.
The financial transactions between political parties and the Greek state, except for the foreseen grants.
All parties, whether they are entitled to funding or not, are required by law to disclose the sources and use of financial resources, as well as the amount of their assets, through an annual financial statement, which records all the financial data of the party. In relation to MPs, the following should be taken forward:
Reduction of parliamentary allowances, abolition of the allowance for participation in parliamentary committees.
Extensive dialogue within the framework of the Constitution on the possible reduction of the number of MPs to 200, with a simultaneous transfer of a significant part of regulatory powers to the Local Authorities of the first and second degree.
Drastically limiting the number of special advisers and associates of ministers and MPs and the number of privileges they enjoy
Abolition of the parliamentary pension. Members of Parliament to retire from their own insurance institution.
Change the electoral law in favour of a simple proportional representation in order to reflect the will of the electorate in parliament.
The division of large constituencies in order to limit the circulation of undeclared political money, to limit electoral expenditure, to limit the undue influence of extra-institutional actors, to facilitate the accountability and social control of MPs and to represent the electorate more directly.
People's participation in all processes is essential.
- Referendum Under the Constitution, which provides for referendums, citizens must be consulted on important issues.
Their opinion is crucial.
But beyond the current constitutional provisions, participation in consultation processes at many levels is necessary.
Popular initiative for a referendum with the guarantees of the Constitution
- Participatory democracy
The manifestations of a modern participatory democracy are consultation and accountability, which ensure and shape a framework for dialogue between the State and civil society.
Participation at local government level, as provided for by the institutional framework.
Participation at the central level through opportunities provided by technology.
o Popular legislative initiative.
- Consultation on draft legislation.
1.1.6 Binding Reconstruction - Constitutional Review
The crisis and its results cannot leave the institutional structure of the State intact.
A targeted revision of the Constitution will highlight and translate into the highest symbolic field the change that the country needs.
It will enshrine mature changes, it will favour the necessary reforms, it will organise the state on new modern bases, adapted to new facts and developments.
Of course, this does not mean that the Constitution is responsible for the crisis of the Greek political system, nor is it what prevents reforms and changes.
But it is an action of high symbolic and substantial value.
1.2 State and public administration
1.2.1 Introduction
The reform of the state is of primary importance in order to meet the data and requirements of the times and to contribute to the reorganization and reconstruction of the country, to the way out of the crisis.
The Democratic Left prioritises state reform as one of the key points of its programmatic proposal.
The country needs a new model of governance at all levels, aiming at efficiency, transparency, consultation, accountability to regain the capacity to deliver public policies with a plan, objectives and measurable results.
A democratic state, decentralized, with a strong self-government of both levels, with resources and powers, at the service of the citizen and society is the central choice of the Democratic Left.
1.2.2 General principles - Central Administration
Reform, technological and organisational, the revision of mental, ethical and professional processes, the introduction of expertise and transparency, the eradication of corruption, partisanship, favouritism and bureaucracy are central policies.
The application of efficiency measurement aims to highlight problems, identify best practices and improve the final service provided.
The improvement in the citizen-state relationship is achieved by further enhancing social accountability and allowing for a better evaluation of the effectiveness of the policies implemented.
Central administration -government Apart from political reasons, the failure to manage the crisis is also due to structural peculiarities of the governance system.
The way the government, the ministries and the administration operate is no longer appropriate.
It represents an outdated structure.
Based on past conditions and outdated considerations, it is not able to meet the increased demands of the present era.
A reform of the way the government and ministries operate is needed.
Central inter-ministerial coordination of day-to-day horizontal decisions
Homogeneity and correspondence of the basic structures of each ministry
Organisation of ministries with uniform basic rules
Clear, measurable objectives, with clear timetables and information for the people on their progress.
Separation of executive and executive responsibilities
Strengthening the executive, coordination and control of the implementation of public policies
General guidelines Reducing red tape and regulatory inflation
Linking budget to service objectives - performance budgeting
Organisational and technological modernisation. Full computerisation and generalised application of the double-entry accounting system
Rational allocation of staff through the redeployment process.
Establishment of incompatibility between local status and positions of responsibility.
Restoration of the unified structure and hierarchy, with the establishment of meritocratic criteria in the selection and promotion of staff at all levels.
Introduction of internal and external evaluation procedures for services and staff.
Commitment to accountability and transparency.
New stricter disciplinary law
Increased possibility for staff to move between institutions at the initiative of the Administration,
while at the same time establishing safeguards to prevent abuse of this arrangement.
New, modern, updated organisational charts aiming at efficiency instead of the policy of uncritical redundancies in the public sector
Designing training for civil servants and linking it to the needs of the job.
Provision of facilities in a transparent way (educational permits, etc.)
1.2.3 E-government
E-government is not just about using new technologies and reaping the benefits. It means a new public administration, efficiency, speed, reduction of bureaucracy, elimination of corruption, directness and saving of resources, but also a new philosophy in the structure of public administration.
At its core is serving the citizen and meeting the need for transparency, consultation and social accountability.
The transformation of public administration is achieved by implementing networked functions in public services, synchronised information and online services to citizens, interactive communications and direct democratic participation of citizens.
More generally, economic and social development is supported by the internet.
In the previous period there was a serious lack of political will for the proper management of Community funds in order to install interconnected systems that will allow nationwide coverage of operations in critical areas such as financial data cross-checks, suppliers, etc.
The cumulative loss to the Greek public sector over time due to the non-use of these systems amounts to billions of euros.
The inability to cross-check data systematically favoured tax evasion, the misappropriation of public funds, the strengthening of client networks and the serving of large private interests.
Our goal is full, functional interconnectivity.
Our aim is to interconnect electronic systems across the whole range of public administration and to integrate them operationally into the daily lives of users. | This implies:
Direct operational interconnection of all electronic systems and their operational integration into the structure of the public administration.
Elaboration of a comprehensive plan aiming at covering the whole scope of such applications with the absorption of the relevant funds
The Democratic Left will move immediately in this area in order to achieve a complete overhaul of the public administration, efficiency and service to the citizen.
Strengthening the steps taken to continue the effort and speed up the procedures.
Support for the Transparency programme, as the posting of all decisions and signatures on the internet is seen as a positive step.
Developing broadband infrastructure so that everyone can access it, at reasonable prices, at speed.
A network that will embrace the whole territory and will enable the implementation of new advanced administrative policies and provide new opportunities for growth and information dissemination.
One stop shop services, with multiple benefits for both the citizen and the administration
A strategic plan that will exploit the potential and combine e-government with the productive reconstruction of the country, the change of the development model, equality in the relationship between the centre and the periphery.
Immediate introduction of electronic signature in the public sector
1.2.4 Decentralisation
The position for a decentralised, efficient, modern state remains a strategic choice of the Democratic Left.
Strengthening decentralisation. By separating executive and executive responsibilities. The central administration assumes its executive, coordinating and controlling role.
Combining and transferring responsibilities to local government, with the aim of making the work produced more effective and mutually reinforcing.
1.2.5 Local government - general authorities
The Democratic Left has always had as a political and strategic goal for Local Government, the two degrees articulated at regional and local level, with an elected periphery and municipalities competitive in the international and European environment.
Local government - regional and local - has a very important role to play in the development of policies in its area, which
will formulate an alternative framework of proposals for dealing with the crisis
will relieve citizens of its effects,
will form a network of social protection policies and measures,
undertake economic initiatives in the context of the effort to redistribute income to weaker social groups at local level
promote policies to tackle corruption and mismanagement to secure and save resources,
will tend to formulate new employment policies, restructuring of the old production model with emphasis on green growth initiatives and investments.
The programmatic proposal of the Democratic Left responds to the aspects of the crisis of self-government.
Crisis of representativeness, crisis of dependence on central administration, crisis of strategy, crisis of values and credibility, crisis of political priorities.
Local GovernmentThe following should be promoted immediately:Annual backgrounds of all elected officials and those who hold positions in municipal affairs and posting them on the internet
Establishment of mandatory implementation of total quality management systems, commitment to the way and procedures of service to citizens, commitment to the way of responding to citizens' requests with objective and not clientelistic criteria,
Establishment of annual target setting and measurement indicators to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of services and introduction of service evaluation systems
Establishment at regular intervals of surveys of citizen satisfaction with the provision of municipal services and products, introduction of surveys to certify the satisfaction or not of local government staff with the conditions of their working environment,
Application of the double-entry accounting system to all municipal legal entities and municipal public utilities,
Normalising industrial relations in a clean, fair and transparent environment
Strengthening the level of training of both civil servants and elected officials, especially for the elected body the mandatory training of the elected body should be established on a regular annual basis
Institutional armouring and strengthening of opposition factions with means, so as to promote control - more effective role of the opposition
Liberation of the local authorities from the Central Administration, through the gradual achievement of financial autonomy and the responsibility of collecting tax revenues from the local authorities themselves, but without any additional tax burden on the citizens.
Regional Self-Government The establishment of Regional Self-Government, apart from the synchronisation of the Greek administrative organisation with the corresponding European standards, gives the possibility for a new type of development proposal, a new development model.
There is the necessary geographic and population size to bear the burden of reconstruction locally, always embedded in a broader plan for the whole country.
Strengthening regional self-government with additional responsibilities but above all with resources.
Preventing regulations that, contrary to the spirit of the new architecture of self-government, deprive it of powers
Broadening the scope of action and cooperation with the government, which will contribute to the institutional armouring of regional self-government and allow it to fulfil its purpose more fully
Establishing a process for measuring the achievement of the objectives of development programmes and not just absorption rates
1.2.6 Independent Authorities
The change of the economic and production model, the strategy of modernisation of the state, public administration and the pursuit of competitiveness must not negatively affect individual rights and fundamental principles of public administration.
It is a strategic choice of the Democratic Left to strengthen the Independent Authorities.
Their political, organisational, operational and financial independence is necessary and indisputable.
The Independent Authorities should be subject to parliamentary scrutiny to remove obstacles to their democratic legitimacy.
Their role beyond the guarantee of rights is of major importance as due to the changes in the country's economic model they will be called upon to adequately regulate new fields of activity.
We are strengthening the independent authorities in terms of infrastructure and staffing to enable them to fulfil their role.
The increase in the workload must be accompanied by a corresponding increase, as it is the Independent Authorities that will safeguard the collective interest.
1.3 Justice
The modernization and rationalization of justice requires the change of the relevant rules in order to respond to the rapid and effective resolution of disputes arising from interpersonal, social and economic relations as well as from the multifaceted relations between citizens and the state.
The administration of justice by judges requires that the organisation of court services, consisting of highly qualified and educated officials, be based on modern technology so that the determination and development of each case is carried out in the most transparent manner. The citizen should be informed of the progress of his case at all times.
The administration of justice is crucial.  Reform aimed at making it more efficient helps to consolidate a sense of a favoured state and assists the country's recovery efforts.
The cornerstone of a modern, efficient, social and reliable state is justice.  Key areas of intervention should be:
Faster administration of justice so that cases are not pending, litigants are not burdened, pending cases do not pile up, business activity and social normality are not negatively affected.
Codification of law with the aim of simplification, removal of contradictions in legislation, transparency, protection of the citizen, reduction of costs.
Polygamy and labyrinthine regulations have been a chronic pathogenesis of the Greek legal system.
Strengthening the independence of the judiciary in order to free the executive from the selection of the leadership of the judiciary. Autonomy of the courts.
Improvement of the logistical infrastructure in order to support the operational work of the Judiciary.
The logistical infrastructure using new technologies can help to modernise and improve the conditions for the administration of justice, relieving the system of additional burdens.
Out-of-court case resolution The aim is to relieve the Judiciary of small disputes, to reduce the volume of work in order to achieve the goal of speedy delivery and the quality of judicial work.
Humanising the prison system Locating new prisons, decongestion and decent human living conditions.
Correctional policy aimed at reintegration, with vocational training for prisoners.
Respect and treatment of minors and special provision for the prevention and social inclusion of young people.
Treatment programmes in the context of anti-crime policy.
1.4 Security and Civil Protection
In times of crisis where the insecurity of citizens is intensifying and the reduction of the capacities of the State becomes a universal phenomenon, we must prevent phenomena of generalized lawlessness and protect human rights on the basis of legality and constitutional provisions.
The Democratic Left advocates the protection of the citizen in combination with unconditional respect for human rights.
It is an achievable balance in the context of a modern democratic state.
1.4.1 Police
Radical reorganization of the Hellenic Police Service in order to make it more efficient and legal.
Recording of staff shortages based on the organisational charts.
Relieving the police officer from additional administrative burdens in order to patrol and provide a sense of security for the citizen in everyday life.
Strengthening the logistical infrastructure. The demands on the police are great. In the fight against crime, it is essential to strengthen and modernise the logistical infrastructure.
Police forces must be equipped with the appropriate means to carry out their mission, to safeguard their physical integrity and health, and to expose themselves to the least possible risk.
Training of police forces.
Modern and democratic high level training of police forces, aiming at operational capacity and respect for citizens' rights, avoiding mistakes and extreme or violent behaviour.
Independence, meritocracy and a change in the way leadership is appointed in order to establish meritocracy.
Getting rid of partisanship, utilization and management of human resources based on efficiency, competences.
Emphasis on citizen security and freeing police forces from other tasks of guarding private citizens and private interests.
The policeman should be in the community, in the neighbourhood, close to potential crime hotspots, and not remote and placed in places for other purposes and targets.
Fight against organised crime, imported crime and criminal networks.
Unfortunately, crime beyond petty crime in everyday life occurs in an organised way, in networks, with increased potential and complex objectives.
Domestic and foreign crime networks must be targeted.
With combined practices, organisation and operational efficiency, they can be pursued and stamped out.
Organised transnational crime is managed by the Police and European/international cooperation.
Domestic petty crime (street, school, family) should also be of preventive interest to (local) society, which should - where and when it can - prevent social problems before they become criminal.
The criminalisation of poverty, i.e. the crime of survival, must be excluded from the action of the repressive mechanisms and entrusted to solidarity bodies.
Changing the way social protests are dealt with.
Popular and social protest is a democratic right guaranteed by the constitution.
It should not be dealt with in police terms. A point of balance must be found through the social dialogue we are proposing.
Commitment of cooperation between ELAS and Municipal Police
Civil Protection is a cornerstone for fostering a sense of security.
It is the duty of the State to modernise the Civil Protection system in order to make it more effective.
The nature of the mission and work of Civil Protection requires the proper planning and coordination of many instruments and services.
Immediate actions to be taken forward are: Update and continuously renew studies and planning.
Control of organisation and coordination. Control of preparedness, response, mobilisation and coordination of resources.
Cooperation with voluntary groups and the use of their human resources.
Search and rescue with increased operational capabilities and participation in international missions where necessary.
Fire Brigade The Fire Brigade is the pillar, the central force of the Civil Protection system.
Strengthening it, addressing human resource shortages are important.
The Democratic Left, recognizing the importance of this body, proposes to strengthen the logistical infrastructure of the Fire Brigade.
The country has paid dearly for the cost of its weaknesses. A well-trained and technically equipped fire brigade would have prevented dangers and disasters.
Special emphasis on forest protection and aerial firefighting (responsibility of the Air Force).
Coast Guard - Hellenic Coast Guard. Greece, a maritime country with an abundance of natural and artificial ports, needs a strong and effective Coast Guard.
The integration of the Coast Guard - Greek Coast Guard in the Civil Protection system and its contribution to the security of the citizen is decisive.
Moreover, the safeguarding of Exclusive Economic Zones and the country's rights to them is a mission of the utmost national and economic importance.
We are upgrading the role of the Coast Guard by integrating its needs into an overall security policy.
The strengthening of the logistical infrastructure is crucial.
We believe that the contemporary social and political reality of our times requires a redefinition of the relations between the State and the Church, as well as between the State and the Recognized Churches and Religions, always in the context of respect for the role of the Orthodox Church in the life and history of Greek society.
In this direction, the separation of the State and the Church is necessary, which will allow the better functioning of the latter, will not create sources of tension, and will relieve the state budget of additional financial burdens, especially in the current circumstances.
The inclusion of Religious Affairs in the responsibilities of the Ministry of Interior.
The fundamental revision of both the curricula and the textbooks of the Religious Studies course and their exemption from any form of indoctrination.
Religions and the religious phenomenon, as phenomena of culture and the characteristics of societies, must be the subject of the educational process in a freely religious society.
However, the teaching of the Religious Studies course must be the exclusive responsibility of the state through the Ministry of Education & Lifelong Learning.
Assessment of ecclesiastical and monastic property
The taxation of church and monastic property is a socially just measure that shares the tax burden.
Taxation is an obligation of the State and there is no exemption or exception to it except for those relating to all kinds of charitable activities.
That is why it is necessary to repeal certain laws or annul certain provisions. In particular the following laws:
2459/97 (exemption from the Large Property Tax for properties used as places of worship),
3220/2004 (Article 15 provides for the exemption of the obligation to pay a 35% levy from the church's revenues, a levy that had been in place since 1945),
3296/2004 (Article 6 provides for full exemption from tax on income from the lease of land and buildings of churches)
3427/2005 (Articles 7 & 16 extend the tax exemptions of the church, as they exempt it from the automatic surtax and from the transaction tax on real estate)
The gradual abolition of the salaries of the priests of the Church of Greece with the simultaneous return to the Church of assets belonging to it.
The salaries of the priests of any Church cannot be charged to the state budget in order to ensure the equal treatment of all religious people, without exclusion.
Relations between the State and religions -Revolution of all Churches and Recognized Religions into N.P.I.D. of ecclesiastical type -sui generis, in which the State will intervene exclusively in matters relating to the protection of legality.
Fiscal policy under the Memorandum, with its generally restrictive character, is not a one-way street.
There is a way to minimise income losses if the effort is based on finding equivalent fiscal measures.
We are proposing measures with an equivalent budgetary outcome because we recognise the need to achieve fiscal adjustment.
However, in order to have a chance of success and a sustainable social outcome, fiscal adjustment must be embedded in a development framework.
An important dimension for unfolding equivalent measures is that of χρόνου|.
Because if there are tight time frames for achieving a fiscal outcome then other policies cannot be developed and deliver results, so any measure other than cuts in wages, pensions and social spending seems unrealistic.
The dominance of systemic approaches in public discourse presents as unrealistic the reduction of tax evasion and the shadow economy, which amounts to about 30% of the country's GDP.
The lack of political will and clientelistic logics present the restructuring of the public administration and the reduction of bureaucracy as an unrealistic approach, despite the fact that this burden is estimated at around 10% of GDP.
It is obvious that a basic and modest reduction of these burdensome factors brings enormous benefits.
This shows that synergy of policy results in other areas is necessary to support a realistic policy of equivalent measures.
Of course, only a pro-popular and progressive government can move in this direction, challenging the one-way streets and assumptions of the domestic establishment.
The Democratic Left proposes a series of immediate interventions to both raise revenues and reduce spending in a socially just and economically efficient way.
The fiscal equivalents that we propose concern: other policies to boost growth that will bring about positive fiscal results without reducing wages - pensions, increasing unemployment and deconstructing the welfare state.
on measures that will raise revenue from tax evaders and the holders.
spending reduction measures that will eliminate waste and misappropriation.
We supported with the submission of our political proposal the need to demand two (2) amendments to the agreed framework with the partners. These amendments are:
1st amendment : Change of 11.5 billion measures for the 2012-2014 fiscal adjustment
In the Memorandum there are clear commitments for new measures in June 2012 that will revise public spending for the next 2 years.
The cuts in public spending are explicitly targeting pensions, social transfers, pharmaceutical expenditure as well as defence spending, the restructuring of public administration and αυτοδιοίκησης|.
Such a forecast cannot be accepted with the underground economy and tax evasion at high levels.
We propose a different fiscal adjustment plan with protection of the people's income and emphasis on fighting waste and corruption and tackling tax evasion.
The plan includes: Cuts in public spending with a target reduction of 4 billion in defence spending, pharmaceutical spending and public administration only in the important part of fighting waste and irrational management of resources.
and not with cuts in wages and pensions, new redundancies, cuts in spending in the welfare state.
Fighting corruption through new systems to control public spending and tendering, with the aim of reducing by 2 billion the amount of public procurement.
Fight against tax evasion estimated at 30% with the aim of catching 1/3 and adding 6 billion in revenue.
To meet these targets, citizens will be called upon to mobilise, so that at the last minute the issues of fighting tax evasion and corruption and tackling waste are at the heart of the effort.
Amendment 2: More favourable arrangements in relation to the timing of the zero deficit target
Today there is tremendous pressure to take additional measures to cover the deviations from the zero deficit target by 2014, to enable the country's return to international market financing.
This pressure is leading to the adoption of measures that degrade the living conditions of wider sections of the population and lead to a further worsening of the recession.
This situation must change.
It is necessary, without abandoning the zero deficit target, to recognise that the recessionary factor makes it impossible to achieve the target within the given timeframe and makes it impossible for the country to exit the international markets in 2015.
On this basis, it becomes realistic to claim a relatively short extension of time to meet the deficit targets of the agreement.
In particular, for each of the first three years, a one-year deferral is allowed.
This of course requires that the country will have to demonstrate in practice its decision to move to deficit elimination in order to accept an extension, because this requires additional funding to cover the budget deficits that will arise.
This possibility of a time extension will stop the pressure of fiscal adjustment through the reduction of people's income and create the time for the new policies to take effect.
The revenue is mainly derived from taxation.
The fact is that the country's tax system is inadequate, unfair and constantly changing.
It is characterised by an unequal and unfair distribution of the tax burden of the economically weak in favour of those who earn high incomes and have wealth, the loss of revenue through tax exemptions for those who do not need it, the legalisation and facilitation by the State of the "laundering" of tax evaders' income in Greece,    and the non-systematic application of the "filing of taxpayers' returns", especially those who declare high incomes, the flourishing of tax evasion through over/under invoicing (especially of intra-group, intra-community and triangular transactions), the appropriation of a large part of tax revenues from illegal transactions of taxpayers and organs of the tax control mechanisms of the state.
The result is that there is a large growth in tax evasion, tax evasion and the underground economy, which amounts to 30-35% of GNP, and the non-recovery of taxes, fines, etc., which exceed 30 billion euros since 1960.
In order to radically change this pathogenic situation, there is an urgent need to: improve and reform the tax system in the direction of a proportional and universal contribution of citizens to the tax burden through a fair and progressive taxation of personal income.
The reversal of the unequal and unfair distribution of the tax burden against the weaker strata and the weaker social groups and the protection of their incomes.
The rationalisation of the tax system, with the restoration of stability and simplification of tax legislation, the creation of the necessary legislative conditions for the monitoring, control and capture of the taxable amount and the collection of the amounts charged.
The increase of public revenues, by broadening the tax base, the substantial taxation of big capital and wealth, the intensification of tax controls, the universal application of the "pay-as-you-go" system and the functional reconstruction, modernisation and strengthening of the tax services and the control mechanisms of the state.
The fight against tax evasion, the shadow economy and illicit trade, by taking measures to make tax evasion unprofitable for tax evaders (confiscation of assets, severe criminal sanctions, etc.).
Demonstrating practical political will to fight tax evasion and corruption.
In particular, the measures to be taken are: i) Combating tax evasion and illegal acquisition of assets.
Finding those who have illegally managed public money for their own benefit, public compensation and restitution and criminal prosecution.
Control of property acquired by political persons in the last twenty (20) years: Retrospective audit of the assets acquired by those who have served as members of parliament, ministers, prime ministers, secretaries general and advisors to ministries, governors, managing directors and managers of public and private law organizations of the State and public utilities, as well as their spouses and relatives of the first degree, from the year 1981 to the present.
Compensation of the State from politicians and other persons who have illegally and through dishonest acts (kickbacks, bribes, commissions, etc.) acquired assets in the last twenty (20) years and confiscation of these assets.
Control of assets acquired by public money managers, members of public works or procurement committees, public officials with a collection or control role in the last twenty (20) years.
Confiscation of such goods if their origin cannot be justified.
Finding those who have evaded tax and taxing them for past years, regardless of whether they are considered tax closed.
General application of the "filing of tax returns", with a focus on taxpayers with assets of significant value.
To be effective, the audit of the "alibi" must be based on a set of data such as tax returns, deposits, shares, government securities held by the taxpayer.
Immediate freezing of funds and other assets that are not justified by the "pretenders" and taxing them as concealed income.
Identification of deposits and withdrawn funds from Greek citizens in banks abroad and taxation of these as concealed income, if their acquisition is not justified.
Confiscation of assets derived from money laundering and economic crimes (smuggling, illicit arms and drug trafficking, prostitution rings, illegal supplies, brokerage, etc.).
Incentives for owners to voluntarily declare their properties owned by offshore companies, by taxing the properties in income tax, with a reduced tax rate of 20%, for five years, on the value of each property, as well as on other taxes (EMAP, TAK, PPC, etc.).
Inclusion in taxation of all groups that evade taxation through a combination of background checks, presumptions of livelihood and objective criteria of professional activity.
Promote annual checking of taxpayers' bank balances against the income they declare, the use of tax cards and a ban on the use of cash for transactions over €1,000.
Fighting tax evasion in real time.
Control of oil trafficking to combat fuel smuggling, with severe penalties for fuel smugglers, confiscation of assets.
Immediately address tax theft through offshore companies and virtual companies in low-rate countries, to avoid taxation for economic activities related to our country.
Drastically reduce illicit trade:  Systematic controls on import and trafficking centres, closure of businesses, confiscation of goods and deportation of foreign importers and smugglers.
Developing a "evidence movement" through incentives for businesses and consumers and fostering attitudes.
Increasing the penalties for issuers of fictitious and counterfeit data, with the escalation of penalties (fines) on recurrence (repeat offence) of the offender and depending on the seriousness of the offence (individual or non-repeated issuance of fictitious data, number of such data, size of the value of transactions, etc.).
Penalties to the recipient of data that is fictitious as to the person of the issuer, only if fraud or negligence of the recipient is established when the transaction is genuine.
Intensification of regular tax audits, with an emphasis on medium and large enterprises with gross revenues of more than €300,000.
Intensification of temporary tax audits, in order to ascertain the payment or not of withheld taxes (income, NICs, NICs, etc.), by auditing businesses - traders, immediately after the deadline for submitting the relevant declarations.
Conduct regular tax audits within three years, with a reduction of the statute of limitations from five (5) years to three (3) years.
An obligation for civil servants who own real estate owned by offshore companies to declare them, under the threat of "permanent dismissal¬|:
Impose the corresponding taxes on income tax.
Passing a special law with retroactive effect, making "dishonesty against the State" and "tax theft" permanent crimes, without statute of limitations, and establishing the automatic lifting of tax, banking and any other secrecy.
Publication on the internet of businesses that have issued false information.
Use of the tax card and transaction receipts.
Electronic certification of the authenticity of tax data of value (e.g. invoices, etc.) for the control by the Ministry of Finance of the authenticity of the data of traders and transactions (facilitating the identification of companies that issue fictitious and forged data).
Publication on the internet of a Special Register of businesses that issue fake-virtual tax information (invoices, etc.) to protect businesses from the possibility of transactions with businesses that issue fake and false invoices.
ii) Changing the composition of taxes by increasing the participation of the economically powerful
Changes to Value Added Tax (VAT)
A change in the relationship between direct and indirect taxes, with an increase in direct (personal) taxes.
Reduction of indirect taxes on basic consumer goods and food and essentials, as well as on food and catering services offered by hotels and other accommodation establishments to tourists, to boost tourism.
Parallel increase to 30% for all luxury goods.
Special Company Tax Introduction of an "extraordinary special levy" for shipowners and shipowners who have ships under the Greek flag.
Introduction of an "extraordinary special levy" on the profits of companies with gross revenues of more than €2 million:
This contribution will be calculated at a rate of 10% of the average of the net profits of the last three (3) closed financial years and will be scaled according to their level.
Adoption of an "extraordinary special levy" on casino profits:
The levy will be calculated at a rate of 10%-20% of the average of the profits of the last three (3) closed years and in parallel the introduction of a "special special entrance fee" to the casinos, which will be calculated in one amount (e.g. 3 euros) for each visitor to the casinos.
Extraordinary taxation on the derivative products of the Stock Exchange with an escalating rate of 10-20%.
Taxing companies with privileges such as banks and construction and requiring them to participate in social improvements.
Taxation of large estates on a progressive scale.
Creation of a special purpose fund with part of the profits from the exploitation of the country's mineral wealth and renewable resources.
Tax rates that will increase the contribution of big capital and wealth.
Adoption of a single and progressive tax scale, with more intermediate brackets and reduced tax rates between incomes from 12,000 to 20,000 euros and fewer intermediate brackets with higher tax rates for incomes above 20,000 euros.
Maintain the existing scales for high incomes.
Indexation of the tax scale: With automatic indexation every quarter or half-year.
Establishment of an annual tax-free amount of 10,000 euros: this amount will apply to incomes from 12,000 to 30,000 euros per year.
High taxation of very high incomes from 800,000 euros and above (the number of tax returns for this amount is a few dozen but the symbolic element has special weight).
Taxation of profits from the sale of shares on the stock exchange and from transactions in derivative products.
Abolition of the tax exemption and direct taxation of profits at the end of the financial year for companies that make profits from the sale of shares at a price above their acquisition price.
Abolition of the tax exemption and immediate taxation of profits at the end of the financial year for individuals and companies that make profits from transactions in derivative products on the CSE or a foreign derivatives exchange.
Increased revenue from other measures.
Assessment of the church's income from all its commercial transactions and its real estate.
Review of taxes that entail high collection and collection costs but generate low revenues.
Review of all tax exemptions.
iii) Measures to provide tax relief for the economically weak
Establishment of an annual tax-free amount as a minimum acceptable living wage, calculated on actual or imputed income.
Tax-free amount of 8,000 euros for vulnerable social groups, large families.
Tax-free portion of income up to €5,000 for all individuals
Adoption of a single and progressive tax scale, with more intermediate brackets and reduced tax rates between incomes from 12,000 to 20,000 euros, and fewer intermediate brackets with higher tax rates for incomes above 20,000 euros.
Indexation of the tax scale, with automatic indexation, adjusted every quarter or half-year.
Deductions of expenses from income: Reinstate certain expenditure deductions (already abolished for housing, medical care ) for vulnerable groups and weaker social groups with an annual income of up to €12,000.
Recognition of all receipts for the taxpayer's purchase of goods and services, which must be presented to the tax authorities in order for the tax-free amount to apply.
iv) Legislative and organisational arrangements for the efficient conduct of tax work
Legislative arrangements and clarifications. Speed up the adjudication of tax cases with stricter and more immediate criminal sanctions.
Intensify preventive and temporary controls.
Abolition of the provisions on the "rejection" of books and records and extension of the income accounting system for all categories of enterprises.
Clarification and redefinition of the concepts of "false" and "fictitious" items, in particular as regards the recipient of the items and severe sanctions for issuers of false and fictitious items.
Amend tax legislation to punish substantive rather than formal violations in order to promote a sense of tax justice and security for taxpayers.
Introduction and widespread use of a 'unique personal identification number' for each citizen, along the lines of the 'social security number'.
Reorganisation of tax services and control mechanisms.
Establishment of a "Special Secretary¬ of the Ministry of Finance, who will be "permanent¬ and of general recognition, who will be exclusively concerned with the organisation and proper functioning of the tax audit services.
Establishment of a central staff department of the Ministry of Finance, whose staff will not be subject to transfer to the regional tax services (D.O.Y.) and will be exclusively concerned with the study of tax issues.
Establishment of a special branch of tax inspectors, as in EU countries (tax inspectors in the UK, inspecteurs des impots in France, etc.), with a special salary scale and a strict selection procedure from existing employees or new recruits.
Exemption of the public audit mechanisms from the process of collecting, classifying and processing data in order to use the tax mechanism only for the purpose of carrying out tax audits.
Commitment to the full and universal operation of the electronic tax system, with the submission, through TAXISnet, of all tax returns, tax returns, tax returns of changes and other tax forms and the electronic receipt by the tax authorities of certificates and other supporting documents, the issuance of which does not require payment of money.
Improve the audit process and the quality of tax audits.
Amend tax legislation to punish substantive rather than formal violations in order to promote a sense of tax justice and security for taxpayers.
Intensify preventive and temporary controls:
Carrying out a regular tax audit within a short period of the taxpayer's delinquent behaviour.
Establish a hierarchical control procedure for audit reports.
Establish a mechanism for the specialisation of tax audit institutions in the audit process.
Creation of a special legal support office for the D.O.Y.
v) Reducing expenditure by fighting waste and corruption
In the 6 years 2004-2009 alone, government expenditure (excluding interest) increased by 50%, when the average increase in the 27 EU countries was 22%.
In particular, public consumption expenditure (almost 70% of the total) increased by 41%, while in the 27 countries it increased by 20%.
A first action is to identify where spending is growing wastefully and start cutting from there.
The objective of reducing expenditure without further downgrading the remuneration of workers and services provided is of equal importance to the fight against tax evasion, for a fiscal adjustment of a different composition.
The key elements of such a reduction in expenditure are:
Reconstruction and operation of the budget office of the parliament, with transparency in the provision of data and cooperation with social actors and scientific institutions.
Immediate abolition of secret Special Account funds in all ministries and departments without exception.
Changing the budgeting system and formulating a performance budget that includes setting targets by service and specific costing of the required expenditure from the budget.
The methodology has been applied in 6 countries at different levels, which shows that it can be applied in our country as well.
The Canadian implementation reduced costs by 22% over five years, achieved service delivery targets of 80 - 92% and improved efficiency by 30 - 38%.
New Zealand was on the verge of bankruptcy when it began its transition to this system and now has an effective system of budgeting and performance evaluation.
Setting an annual target to reduce expenditure by 7% over the next 3 years.
Examination from scratch of the feasibility and size of each expenditure with a redefinition from scratch with the aim of maximum reduction with priority given to the elimination of unethical expenditure: speculative overcharging for materials, works and services and materials, high salaries, fictitious pensions and salaries.
A more general rationalisation of expenditure, with priority being given to eliminating those costs whose non-implementation would not reduce the quantity and quality of services provided to users.
Special examination of expenditure with vague headings such as complex expenditure , public relations and operational and other expenditure.
In the area of public procurement there is great potential for savings, which could be as high as 25%, provided that the system is reorganised, which should include the introduction of transparency and a balanced cost-benefit ratio, with the aim of getting below the average prices for similar items achieved by EU Member States.
In order to achieve this objective, there must first and foremost be political will to take measures such as:The creation of a procurement system that will combine the operation of a single centre (information, drafting of specifications, recording and publication of results, arbitration for dispute resolution, supervision) with authorised tendering bodies.
This would İπιĲυγφȐνİĲơι the proȒmȒθơ in the light of bureaucratic procedures and rapid award processes.
Ensuring that the creation of a National Electronic Public Procurement System (NPEP) will proceed without interoperability and interconnectivity obstacles by the end of 2012 (a project that started 10 years ago and governments are keeping it pending), in order to improve the procedures and the way procurement is carried out.
The widespread use of restricted tendering, which does not allow the development of the interdependence between demand and supply that thrives when the tender result is based on the arbitrary scoring of tender evaluations, with the care, of course, that the descriptions in the tender notices are accurate in relation to the specifications of the supplies requested.
Large public procurement should be done in a way that, without violating Community legislation, will create compensatory benefits in production lines for what can be produced in our country, which will be equivalent to a reduction in costs.
Health expenditure was particularly high in our country.
Apart from objective factors, the increase in expenditure is due to the expansion of corruption, misappropriation of public space and waste.
Over the last 3 years, public spending on health has decreased significantly.
It has been estimated that, at current prices, in 2012 they will have fallen by around 30% compared to 2009 and, as a percentage of GDP, from 6% to 4.5%.
This was done without a focus on waste but in a horizontal way, and without the necessary steps to clean up and rationalise the health system.
This has dramatic consequences for the care of citizens.
Cutting waste in the health system is a key issue, but this cannot be done through blind cuts.
Critical aspects of the health system need strengthening and increased funding so that the necessary health safety net is in place and where necessary strengthened.
So that no citizen of the country faces the spectre of personal or family breakdown that can be caused by serious illness.
Funding shortfalls existed already before the onset of the economic crisis, particularly in services for people with disabilities and serious chronic problems, in prevention and primary health care, in mental health.
At the same time, the shadow economy and corruption have flourished across the whole spectrum of health services.
Thus, private health spending has reached high levels in Greece, at around 40% of total health spending, one of the highest rates in Europe.
However, in the last 3-4 years, due to the economic hardship of a large part of society, private participation in health care expenditure has decreased significantly and seeking care in the public health care system has increased.
It is essential for the public health system to be able to respond to the increased demand and current needs.
To do this, substantial changes in the functioning of the health system are needed.
It requires a break with the dominance of the client state, with practices of complicity and circles of interests, with organisational irrationalities, with bureaucratic inertia and guild logic that have created distortions in the health system and have caused costs to skyrocket.
The creation of the National Health Care Services Organisation (EOPYY) must be accompanied by realistic pricing of the primary care services it provides, based on the functionality of the system and the defence of the public interest.
The Democratic Left supports the implementation of radical change measures by: Promoting rational prescribing according to therapeutic protocols and systematic application of "evidence-based medicine" in line with international standards.
Decisive implementation of electronic prescribing of active substance and improvement of functionality in its organization.
Electronic patient record.
Ensuring the full-time operation of high-tech infrastructure.
Geographical redistribution of health services and their regional management.
Consolidation of hospitals and other units based on functional criteria of substance and not arbitrary "administrative" arrangements or clientele calculations.
Installation of a single standard hospital management system with full interconnectivity covering all areas such as financial management (double-entry accounting system, warehouses, costing) and management of external operations (patient management and billing and outpatient billing, etc.).
Total budgets for hospitals and other health facilities.
Pricing of hospital services on the basis of well-studied "closed consolidated hospital charges" by diagnostic category.
Gradually promote contracts with diagnostic centres based on budget-based payment systems (replacing payment per transaction with systems with a fixed amount to prevent artificial demand).
Meritocratic selection of administrators and board members in institutions, based on expertise and ethics to achieve efficient management.
Pharmaceutical expenditure in Greece is extremely high.
According to OECD data, Greece is among the 2-3 countries with the highest per capita expenditure worldwide, while pharmaceutical expenditure has increased sixfold over the last decade.
The pathologies behind this phenomenon are many and require multifaceted treatment.
There is a need to reduce pharmaceutical expenditure without hindering access to medicines of proven therapeutic value.
The recent legislative changes on medicines (N. 4052/2012) include important provisions, such as the increased use of generic medicines (copies after the expiry of the patent period).
However, the lack of effective institutional arrangements and the sloppy approach to critical aspects of the issue risk undermining the positive directions.
To avoid new distortions, a package of measures and major institutional changes are needed: Ensuring that generics meet the necessary quality, safety and efficacy requirements (bioavailability, bioequivalence).
Arrangements to make generics available at much lower prices than originals.
Careful inclusion of medicines in the generic prescription system (starting with priority medicines based on consumption and cost), provided that the necessary conditions are ensured on the basis of a specific valuation for each medicine and not on the basis of a "mass" implementation of the measure.
Strict application of the prescription of medicines if this is included in the conditions of their authorisation.
Organise cross-checks and investigate current prescribing practices and any inconsistency with morbidity data.
Designing systematic public information campaigns to move away from the false belief that good health care is about bulk drug consumption.
Promoting prevention and primary care potentially leading to a containment of overall health expenditure (increase in expenditure in the short term but decrease in the medium term due to a reduction in the number of cases requiring emergency care).
Ensuring interconnectivity between health and social security sectors is also an important factor in reducing costs.
- Reductions in the cost of running the Republic
The immediate and symbolic objective is to reduce by 50% the cost of the state-funded part of the political function.
This should be done by: Halving the state subsidies to parties.
Reduction of parliamentary allowances, abolition of the allowance for participation in parliamentary committees, abolition of the parliamentary pension and reduction of staff (seconded and seconded).
Adopt a 20% cap on allowances beyond the regular salary for elected officials and ministers.
Reduction of expenditure for the Parliament, its guard and the Presidency of the Republic.
Reductions in payroll , pensions and travel expenses
Public sector workers have already suffered a huge reduction in income.
Any further reduction leads not only to the impoverishment of civil servants and the deconstruction of services and project delivery, with the result that the problem returns with another dimension.
Further compression of wages and pensions must be ruled out
and that there should be a reduction in payroll costs only in cases where there are wage extremes that do not reflect actual labour supply but have arisen as a result of special treatment.
In addition, indirect wage subsidies for daily workers must be eliminated.
In particular, they need to move forward: A single pay scale, with rationalisation and integration of benefits and the removal of injustices and inequalities, i.e. equal pay for equal work.
Impose a ceiling of 3,000 euros gross per month on public sector and public sector salaries.
Examine all "fringe benefits" to eliminate the payment of bogus work.
Control of all types of overtime, remuneration for off-site work and other similar expenses.
Assumption of the salary of the clergy by the Church, after a reasonable transitional period, in the context of the arrangements for the separation of church and state.
The burden (€380 million per year) on the state budget must be reduced by 50% immediately.
Gradual reduction of the number of civil servants, through a freeze on recruitment until 2015, with strict exclusion of sectors such as paramedical staff, teachers, etc., after the agreement of 3/5 of the Parliament.
Immediately record employees who do not attend work and initiate an administrative response process to eliminate the expense.
The Democratic Left is in complete opposition to the labour reserve, an unconstitutional measure that ultimately leads to unemployment.
This measure is a blow to the functioning of the public administration, which it further disorganises, given that it will deprive the administration of experienced staff who are taking early retirement.
Our position is not tantamount to accepting the current situation in the public sector.
The Democratic Left supports the restructuring of the public sector and in this context, significant spending cuts will be made.
Specifically: The abolition or merger of underperforming agencies and services must be done and accompanied by reassignments, retraining and supplementing services where there is a need.
This together with tight control of the work produced will reduce expenditure to private suppliers through outsourcing while offering this work by permanent staff.
It will also reduce the number of contractors hired, as many are often hired to implement work that is within the job duties of permanent staff.
The reduction of bureaucracy will reduce non-value-added work and facilitate a shift to work that is useful for providing services to users or for carrying out audit and tax collection procedures.
The reorganisation of public services will improve the cost-benefit ratio and bring about a coverage of support services to citizens and reduce their costs, with a positive impact on the economy.
Reduction in expenditure by public sector enterprises
The reduction of deficits through the fight against corruption and wasteful spending that turned into deficit parts of services that are in fact profitable (e.g. freight transport in the OSE)
Reducing the costs of the various committees.
Rectification of all enterprises under public control (abolition of guild privileges, control of procurement, restoration of meritocracy and transparency).
Reduction in the subsidy to social security funds
Immediate abolition of the special insurance and pension scheme for various categories of privileged persons, including members of parliament and mayors.
Setting a ceiling of €2,000 gross per month on public sector and broader public sector pensions for the next three years.
Reduction in travel costs
Reducing the use of public cars and travel costs at all levels of government and in the public administration by intensifying real-time control through the application of software and advanced telecommunication systems.
Real estate In 2011, the Greek state spent a total of 155.77 million euros for a total of 2,639 lease contracts.
In 2012 the forecast is for a reduction, as the intention of the public institutions to adjust rents by 20% has already been announced to private individuals.
There needs to be changes such as:  Reducing the total number of public service buildings by concentrating the scattered services.
Utilization of public real estate or legacies and reduction of the number of leases paid by the Greek state.
Inclusion of all public buildings in the RES subsidy schemes to reduce electricity costs.
Reductions in military expenditure
In the current political-economic and social situation of the country, it is unthinkable that on the one hand pensions and salaries are cut and that armaments and military equipment are purchased.
The reduction in military spending should be achieved by: - Suspending all current orders for new weapon systems until the country is on a path of economic growth and begins to generate satisfactory primary surpluses.
In this context, the supply of two more German Type 214 submarines should be cancelled
and to abandon the negotiation for the supply of 6 French FREMM frigates at a total cost of 4.5-5 billion ευρώ|.
-Approval of only the expenditure necessary to increase the operational readiness of existing weapon systems.
In this context, counter pressure for the purchase of military equipment from European countries as a "counterbalance" to the loans provided to our country.
-Reforming the entire procurement system in the armed forces to cut out middlemen and limit any waste.
-Modernising the disposition of the armed forces and reviewing the resources available.
Rationalisation of operating costs (around €6.5 billion), mainly the waste of material and human resources due to the maintenance of outdated layout systems and the extremely costly support system.
A restructuring of the whole system, including the abolition of camps in urban areas, could lead to a reduction in budget expenditure of at least 1 billion.
Eliminate the illegal acquisition of pensions and benefits.
The misallocated pensions as well as the misallocated welfare benefits prove that there is huge scope for savings in public spending which the government and the Troika should have exploited before they overtaxed the private sector and strangled the productive economy.
-Installation and operation of an internal control system to avoid similar phenomena in the future.
 Establishing wise public resource management practices everywhere
Regulations in all areas with the logic of the discipline that must be present in public spending, such as the return of school books and the transfer to the next class, so that we can have a reduction in spending and citizens are trained in an attitude of responsibility.
At the household level, it is necessary to ease the pressure on living standards by reducing prices.
The reduction can be done through a total package with: Procurement and use of the Competition Toolkit developed by the OECD, the application of which helps to identify practices that distort competition.
Adopt regulations to enhance competition for the benefit of consumers.
Strengthening of price control and supervision, especially of the fifty or so foreign and Greek companies that dominate the market and through intra-group transactions sell their products at high retail prices.
Reducing prices by tackling cartels
and mobilisation of citizens through consumer cooperatives
and opening up the professions.
Relief for private loans from banks and credit card interest rates.
Promote adjustments to loans so that: Significantly reduce interest rates on consumer loans and credit cards.
The monthly payment obligation should not exceed 30% of the disposable family income and corresponding extensions should be granted.
Extend the ban on auctions for three years.
Specifically:. Banks should be obliged to enter into a Programmatic Agreement between the Greek state and the Hellenic Union of Banks to take measures such as:
the granting of a grace period, without payment of interest and principal,
the reduction of the interest rate and the extension of the contractual term of the loan, which together will lead to a reduction in the total amount the borrower will be asked to pay.
Private loan (housing, personal-consumer) for which the principal has already been repaid, plus a reasonable profit, this to be written off.
In the remainder, the following are redefined: grace period, interest rates and repayment period, improved.
For credit cards, the government has an obligation to take an immediate initiative for a Programmatic Agreement between the Greek government and the Hellenic Banking Association in order to ensure credit card interest rates that will monitor the interest rates of the "basic mass products" of the credit cards of the banks of the eurozone countries.
At the level of general economic activity, it is vital to finance the production and marketing cycle, which is facing huge problems due to lack of liquidity and the undermining of the validity of the letters of guarantee provided by Greek banks to businesses.
In this direction, there is an immediate need to boost liquidity by: increasing the amounts available in the newly established Guarantee Fund for SMEs to secure financing on favourable terms from banks.
Pursuing the creation of a European guarantee mechanism for businesses rather than banks, so that viable Greek businesses can be lent to by European banks through this guarantee mechanism.
Also the idea of creating a special purpose bank to finance viable companies with a high credit rating could have positive effects.
Requirement to maintain funding lines to businesses from the banking system strengthened through recapitalisation.
As part of this funding to give priority to payments of arrears to employees who have many businesses since they only pay part of the salary and this element can be controlled by payments of the balances by cheques.
Other important parameters to enhance the liquidity of businesses are the repayment of the state's overdue debts to suppliers amounting to about 7 billion euros, the offsetting of liabilities - receivables in the relationship between businesses and the state, including all public sector entities, and the timely return to businesses of the temporary withholdings of the NPAs.
Financial instruments can be found by combining the use of NSRF funds, borrowing from the European Investment Bank and mobilising private funds.
In particular, the following are requested: Overcoming the difficulties, with the participation of the European Investment Bank, to formulate the financial framework to support and launch investments in infrastructure projects (motorways and waste management).
Accelerate the pace of implementation of the NSRF. There can no longer be any excuse for any further delay in the implementation of the projects prioritized by the Regions and the Ministries, which are equivalent to an investment breath of more than 10 billion and the creation of at least 100,000 new jobs.
Rapid use of the new financial instrument for youth employment actions for the period 2012-2014.
Mobilising all the economic forces of the country and the diaspora to invest while leveraging capital from other countries.
Expanding alliances and strengthening partnerships with international companies with capital and know-how, with the aim of making Greece a country of investment and creating common strategic development interests that will lead to the country remaining in the euro.
Regular execution of the Public Investment Programme (PIP) and the abolition of the methodology of recent years to reduce, as a short-term impression of a deficit reduction is preferred to the appearance of a deficit reduction instead of a multiply beneficial development process, the results of which will be seen in the medium term.
Strengthening the country with a special development package (amendment to the agreed framework of the memorandum)
There is an urgent need to support the country with a special development package to boost economic activity for the benefit of job creation and public finances.
Loans can be provided by the European Investment Bank and can be combined with the use of NSRF funds and the participation of private capital.
This package, leveraged by the private sector, could reach €30 billion.
The interventions to be included in the new development package must be defined in an immediate manner and include all sectors with a particular focus on those that create jobs.
The orientation and management conditions of the package must correspond to the characteristics of the new type of development we propose.
In addition, the ECB should be asked not to demand an immediate reduction of the Greek banks' liabilities to it, so that the 16 billion that will flow into their coffers through the loan agreement to replace the short-term Greek government treasury bills they hold can be used to provide liquidity to the market.
For growth to be sustainable and for the benefits to be spread throughout society, it must be freed from the pathologies of the previous model and linked to the general effort to reconstruct the economy and the state.
This means:
Managing resources transparently and in the social interest.
Managing resources with transparent and democratic planning, best value for money, a continuous process of evaluation and redesign of interventions to improve their results and benefits for society.
Public projects should be selected on the basis of their developmental focus, external economies and leverage and not on the basis of political-economic lobbies and political influences of the economic elite groups that have learned to produce a lot of their own profits and few results for the benefit of society.
Fair distribution of the wealth generated by growth.
Orientation towards sustainable growth with increased employment.
Priority to infrastructure and activities with a high income multiplier, which increase productivity, enhance extroversion and create a large number of permanent jobs (innovation, research, entrepreneurship in sectors of internationally tradable goods and services, waste management, etc.).
Development of large but above all many thousands of small and medium sized interventions combined with occupational mobility to create a national plan to transfer activity to tradable goods and services sectors and create hundreds of thousands of new jobs.
Creating conditions for regional and local economic development by strengthening local partnerships and adopting strategies to exploit local comparative advantages.
It is the process that allows local society to take responsibility and play its role in today's circumstances.
In this context, local government institutions acquire a special role not only as a decentralisation of bureaucracy but also as bodies for the design and implementation of development policies.
New role of the state
The introduction of a new functioning of the state so that it is neither dominated by its lords nor guides economic development, but through its interventions promotes the collective strategic interest.
Creation of the appropriate mechanisms (public banking pillar, consolidation and upgrading of development mechanisms) to strengthen the new type of state intervention.
Restructuring of public enterprises: consolidation and modernisation. Government restructuring and perspective plan for each PPO separately.
Public enterprises that are not of major social importance and public benefit and do not serve as a major growth driver have no reason to remain in public ownership.
In any case, natural resources are public property and central infrastructure must be under public control.
Revision of the privatisation programme, aiming at the utilisation and not the divestment of public wealth (necessary amendment of the Memorandum).
The size and number of assets to be privatised reveals an idealistic approach, as it is taken for granted that the withdrawal of the state from any productive process brings a variety of benefits.
In addition, the whole design is full of problems such as the insufficient time frame for implementation, the collection logic, the binding nature of the transfer to the Hellenic Privatisation Fund and the exclusion of any possibility of returning or replacing assets.
Privatisations should not only or mainly be for revenue collection purposes, but should be part of the strategy for a new economic model that will include a new public-private relationship, so that companies with a public sector presence are not linked to deficits, can cope with international competition, contribute to growth and job creation.
The privatisation process must be carried out in terms of transparency, efficiency and growth potential.
Ensure the use and not the divestment of public wealth. It must be specific, taking into account the specificities of each sector.
The review we are demanding is structured around strategic options, such as the maximum possible benefit for the country, the regulation of the legislative framework for the markets that are opening up, ensuring an appropriate price, securing jobs, the strategic planning of any productive activity of the state.
On this basis it will seek to:Get rid of the inflexibility of simply achieving certain economic objectives.
The possibility of redefining the list to be privatised.
Demanding more time (since experience shows that mass privatisations under pressure are not successful) to allow for the development of legislation, the strengthening of regulatory authorities and the conduct of tendering procedures on the best possible terms in the public interest.
Changing the approach to the sale of listed companies that currently have very low stock market prices, to consider selling smaller blocks of shares and the possibility of setting clauses for the public sector to participate in future profits and future market capitalisation.
The examination of the possibility for the public sector to retain, with priority in ports and airports, a package of shares sufficient to control the companies and at the same time to use concessions to private parties in a strictly defined framework and timeframe and with protection of the public interest. This methodology has been proven in most cases internationally to deliver the same revenue in the medium term and also prevents monopolistic side-effects.
The new approach to Public Enterprises that are loss-making so that they are first rehabilitated and then considered for privatisation.
The registration, clearance and gradual development of real estate must take into account both the economic outcome and the social needs and environmental parameters.
Creation of a public banking pillar / recapitalisation of banks.
Establishing a strong pillar in the financial system under public control, with the aim of ensuring the smooth flow of money and financing of the economy at reduced interest rates.
This pillar can include the National Bank of Greece, where the state is regaining the crucial package of shares for its effective control, and the other public interest banks ATE, TT and the Deposit and Loan Fund.
Promote a new institutional framework for the supervision and control of the banking and financial system in general on the basis of social control for the protection of the economic system and the citizen.
After the PSI and the increase of the banks' share capital by issuing no common shares, in any case the Greek State, in whichever banks it becomes the main shareholder, has the obligation to take all measures and actions for the optimal management of its investment.
The more than €23 billion of funds that will be used for recapitalisation should support the effort to restart the economy and society, and not just be used to create "capital buffers" that will allow banks to maintain attractive capital ratios.
Restructuring of the private sector / support and control mechanisms. The private sector needs to be strengthened to restructure and face competition.
Aid should be directed towards :Avoiding credit squeeze
Regulations that will make the environment more favourable to business in the sense that they will remove unjustified obstacles, tackle bureaucracy, corruption and create a stable tax framework.
Priority support for small and medium-sized enterprises to overcome problems of inward-looking, technological backwardness and lack of finance.
Adopt special tax incentives for productive investment in cutting-edge technology and innovation sectors.
Parity in the economic relationship between the state and businesses (offsetting of liabilities - receivables including all public entities, timely reimbursement of temporary withholding of NDAs, timely payment of suppliers so that delays are not used as an argument for overcharging).
Support for adaptation through the NSRF to address the structural weaknesses of Greek businesses, the development of a framework for supporting businesses with a growth and outward-looking, export-oriented orientation, with emphasis on networking, IT applications, new products, new methods and techniques of production and distribution.
Support for infrastructure (business parks , telecommunications and facilitation for investments leading to low-cost energy) and specific measures to promote mergers and partnerships.
Supporting their link with Research - Innovation and their development into learning organisations.
Support for Greek businesses from business forces and consumers.
Addressing poor business practices (Harmonised practices and protection of competition, Reduced understanding of the role of human resources, non-customer-centric operation, reduced use of external expertise).
Supporting the creation of new economic subjects/supporting new forms of collective economic activity.
Strengthening collective forms of production and consumption.
Supporting the creation of new economic subjects, particularly in the Social Economy sector, by strengthening cooperatives (producer and supplier), consortia, consumer associations and unemployed cooperatives.
Reorganisation of all relevant public structures and services to effectively support these guidelines.
What is needed today is the design and activation of a national plan for the transfer of economic activity to marketable products, with a shift towards innovation, strengthening the extroversion of manufacturing, and initiatives by the state to open up markets in traditional and new sectors.
This can be done by : upgrading the primary sector.
Exploiting mineral wealth and energy potential.
Development of the integrated tourism-culture complex.
Exploiting the high educational level of our young people to create businesses in knowledge sectors in association or subcontracting with European companies.
Strengthening the extroversion of manufacturing and promoting the necessary partnerships and/or mergers to address the inherent weaknesses of small-scale enterprises.
State initiatives to open up markets, in traditional and new sectors
and the creation of joint ventures with SEE countries.
For certain sectors in particular, we highlight the following: i) Rural development The aim of the Democratic Left is the integrated development of the countryside based on the balanced promotion of the economic, social and environmental aspects of the countryside.
The future and the prospects of our agricultural economy are achieved with environmentally friendly production methods and must be based on the increase and qualitative upgrading of production, the production of branded and certified agricultural products, the promotion of all Greek food products in the national, European and global market through the promotion of the Mediterranean diet model.
In this context, integrated horizontal policies for rural areas are being designed, focusing on providing municipalities with the necessary infrastructure: social, welfare, health and education.
The specificity of policies should address: Access to all public services.
Health and social protection structures.
The issue of education.
The issue of social security.
The state should be responsible for a broader development planning that addresses the whole country and national priorities.
By this logic, it is the responsibility of the state: Effective negotiation at Community level.
The establishment of the agricultural profession.
Ensuring the competitiveness of the agricultural sector, which is achieved through measures to reduce production costs, consolidation of trade in agricultural products, land use and agricultural land policy.
The development of human resources.
Establishing product certification rules, quality control and environmental protection (e.g. local quality standards, proper management of available water resources, green energy and pollution reduction).
The establishment of the rules on insurance of agricultural production.
Our assumptions and proposals for rural development are as follows: Agricultural production through a comprehensive integrated rural development programme can contribute to strengthening the national economy, ensuring food sufficiency and strengthening employment and social cohesion.
To attract young people of all ages and newcomers to the profession, thus putting a small dam on the bleeding of the countryside and the rapid increase in unemployment in urban centres.
Linking agricultural production to sustainability is a key prerequisite for rural development and will contribute to the balanced management of natural resources and the protection of the environment.
In this direction, the promotion of sustainable forms of agriculture, such as organic farming and integrated crop management, are priorities.
Sustainable fisheries management.
A modern framework for aquaculture and shellfish farming needs to be put in place and institutionalised with a bold approach to address chronic problems.
Our country has a comparative advantage in the production of quality agricultural products.
Emphasis should be placed on the branding of production, Geographical Indication Products, Designation of Origin Products and Local Traditional Products.
The sustainability of farms depends to a large extent on the modernisation of crops and livestock units, collective actions, the reduction of production costs and the rationalisation of the operation of marketing bodies.
The competitiveness of the country's agricultural products is linked to the exploitation of the soil and climate characteristics of each region and the promotion of innovation.
Innovative actions in Greek agriculture must be promoted immediately and new forms of contract farming must be developed.
The protection of rural land, with a clear definition of its uses throughout the country, and the use of renewable energy sources for the needs of rural development, are prerequisites for the promotion of the productive potential of each region.
Agricultural research and the networking of farmers' information are integral components of the organisation of agricultural production.
It requires the development of agricultural research and policies for the education of the rural population on a new basis, with reorganised institutions and a reorientation towards modern requirements.
The cooperation of farmers' cooperatives with consumer networks and joint actions for the marketing of production can contribute to improving food quality and setting better prices for producers and consumers.
New collectives must be created, autonomous, self-governing, with clear objectives.
This means rebuilding the cooperatives from the ground up so that they are truly self-governing, with democratic and transparent operation.
Support for cooperative activities and development and export-oriented enterprises will help to reduce agricultural imports and boost exports, restore the balance of agricultural products and increase employment.
Marketing of products in order to achieve the best economic result for both producers and consumers.
Development of relations and trade between 1) collective producer organisations and consumers and 2) direct producer-consumers.
Strengthening vertical production initiatives aimed at creating economies of scale, in particular at the level of collective forms of producer organisation.
Businesses of scale must be combined with cooperative action at all stages of agricultural production and related activities.
In this context, there is also the possibility of developing specific infrastructure and irrigation construction programmes that will help reduce production costs.
The return of the population to the countryside, especially young people, must be the product of an integrated programme of employment and social benefits.
Specific agri-food products and innovative actions are part of an integrated programme of the overall production of each local community.
Crop restructuring mainly concerns the organisation of the sectors that form the majority of basic agri-food products (cereals, horticulture and livestock).
In addition, it is necessary to disseminate alternative crops that can bring a significant increase in farm incomes.
New products, which do not necessarily require large quantities and areas, but need detailed and specialized work, passion, knowledge and tradition.
The shift towards the production of livestock products where our country is in deficit.
Gradual, systematic support and development, both in its conventional and biological form.
The promotion of a Rural Development Programme with the strengthening of its resources for the modernisation of processing units and the marketing networks of agricultural products will attract investment and promote innovation and new production systems at all stages of agricultural production.
Emphasis on marketing of agricultural products and on activities such as standardisation, market research, promotion and advertising of agricultural products.
Securing the resources of the CAP, and the commitments arising from the implementation of agricultural policy after 2013, require the creative promotion of all adjustments that will exploit the advantages of the Greek agri-food chain.
However, in order for this to become a reality, major structural changes in the way farmers and the whole of Greek society think, operate and intervene are required.
To overcome with boldness, imagination and innovative practices the negative facts of our agricultural production: small sizes or (intensively, quantitatively and economically) scattered not only in mountainous, semi-mountainous and island areas but also in fertile plains.
To counter with projects, initiatives, pooling of economic forces (or funds), solvency and support of the state the interventions of unscrupulous middlemen and cartels.
To end the unacceptable absence of objectives and priorities that leads to arbitrary, uncontrolled and often grotesque situations that.
So we have been led from unpromising monocultures (e.g. cotton) to biofuels, photovoltaics to high productivity land.
There should be centralised short- and medium-term planning.
To start immediately the drafting of a National Plan for the recovery of the rural economy.
This NDP must be based on real data, exploit the various favourable, to the greatest extent possible, soil and climate conditions, exploit the rich human and scientific potential that this place has, mobilise the whole rural world in a positive direction, taking seriously into account the major challenges and changes that are taking place in the world, and exploiting the slightest possibilities of the CAP.
To create new collectives, autonomous, self-governing, with clear objectives.
This means self-governing, democratically and transparently run cooperatives, without the well-known pathologies of the past, the party and political dependencies and individual services, and with complete isolation of those responsible for their current state of affairs.
In this light, it is obvious that the persistent proposal of the Democratic Party for reconstruction, restructuring and reorganization with decentralization of the public and wider public sector, with the utilization of resources and human resources with meritocracy, with transparency in decisions and its operation, becomes a huge and urgent necessity.
In this direction, the Democratic Party has the strength to contribute and will do so.
The main proposals of the Democratic Left for the New Common Agricultural Policy The Democratic Left demands a new Common Agricultural Policy that will protect and promote the real interests of Greek farmers.
Negotiation objectives that the Greek government should adopt: An increase in the CAP budget, compared to the European Commission's final proposal.
The simplification of environmental protection measures so as not to create significant additional bureaucratic burdens for both national governments and producers.
Active farmers should be defined as those who are genuinely engaged in agriculture.
Reduction of the aid ceilings set by the European Commission to lower levels.
Finally, it should be noted that the "regionalisation" of aid in Greece is necessary.
But Member States must have the time and flexibility to compensate for the negative consequences of this change (from the historical model under which direct payments were made to a regional model). The basic payment scheme per region should be implemented by establishing objective criteria such as the agricultural and economic characteristics of each region.
ii) Tourism Tourism makes a significant contribution to GDP (16.5%) and employment (18.4%).
It also affects many sectors and the consumption that takes place creates more than double the consumption in the rest of the economy.
Every job created in tourism creates a new job in the other sectors.
Tourism can be further developed and become an important factor in a new development process.
This requires the development of a long-term strategy, good public-private partnership and the combination of growth with environmental protection and labour rights.
The design of a medium-term return policy for tourism should include: Addressing the threat of an image of Greece to the outside world that is no longer very attractive.
Implementation of a targeted Crisis Management Plan to put the country back at the heart of the tourism markets.
Planning of the country's tourism promotion outside the logic of internal promotion for personal or party public relations, monitoring of markets and targeted advertising in the appropriate markets and "market segments".
Adapting the country's advertising presence abroad to the findings of market research and marketing plans.
The aim should be to regain traction from traditional European markets, to gain a greater share of new markets in South East Europe and to achieve penetration in new dynamic markets such as China.
Priority to the development of cultural tourism and the integration of the cultural elements of each region into the country's tourism product.
Development of all types of tourism (religious, diving, conference, agro-tourism, sports, mountaineering, water sports, hiking) in combination with the effort to extend the tourist season and the development of a regulatory framework for special forms of tourism.
Expansion of VISA CENTERS to more cities around the world (Turkey-Russia-Ukraine)
Implement an integrated quality standard for destinations and accommodation, focusing on criteria particularly relevant to higher spending visitors (e.g. safety, aesthetics, local culture, gastronomy).
Adopting flexible and "smart" pensions for young people, students, disabled people, people over 55 and "special categories" in general.
Particularly for small hotels, certification of their quality is required, highlighting their special identity.
"Hospitality units with personality¬: emphasis on human contact, on the promotion of local colour, culture and people.
Link to the local economy.
Linking with the production of other sectors, especially primary sector products, creating thematic products in tourist areas, exploiting the comparative advantages of each region
Upgrading of other ports of entry in the country, construction of marinas and integration into a single supporting regulatory framework,
Direct linking of tourism with the needs of environmental protection (projects to improve the environment and quality of life in tourist areas, clear definition of land use and strict building conditions for tourist facilities, compliance with the limits of the carrying capacity of the areas, priority in the development of alternative forms of tourism that have limited environmental costs, prohibition of tourist construction in already congested tourist areas).
Relief of tourist areas by speeding up the creation of the necessary general infrastructure works and the implementation of regeneration programmes for their congested parts.
Review of tourism education and training.
Last but not least, the safeguarding of collective agreements and, more generally, of labour relations at all levels, which will not be subject to the further weakening of wage labour.
iii) Shipping Develop a concerted effort, through a series of incentives, to strengthen shipping and encourage a shift to Greek crews. In particular:
A more flexible register in order to register other Greek-registered ships that currently fly foreign flags, and facilities for long-term charter contracts.
Encourage the modernisation of the shipbuilding sector with the participation of Greek shipowners' capital through incentives to attract them to build in Greek shipyards.
iv) Mineral wealth We are positive to highlight mineral wealth as a new source of public revenue, as a new source of job creation, essentially as the foundation of a new model of sustainable development and low-carbon economy, to create a competitive regional economy for the country.
Our natural resources allow us to use them to tackle both the economic and climate crisis.
However, modernisation of the regulatory framework is needed to ensure long-term policy and attract investment.
In this direction, significant but delayed and -for the time being- ineffective steps have been taken with the new Mining and Quarrying Regulation and the provision for environmental licensing of projects for exploitation (Law 4001/2011).
We support the completion of the so-called "National Mining Cadastre", Geographical Information System.
Furthermore: the exploitation of mineral raw materials should be based on knowledge of their reserve potential, based on further modernisation of the means of identifying prospective areas.
Granting environmental permits with a view to protecting the environment, in accordance with the principles and guidelines of sustainable development.
Integration of mining policy into the broader spatial policy.
Promote social dialogue and acceptance of investments by local communities given the existence of compensatory benefits and socially equitable distribution of national revenues.
The awarding of contracts for the exploitation of mineral wealth to be carried out through transparent international competitive bidding procedures to maximise development benefits.
Cooperation with university earth science departments.
Efficiency in the use of Mineral Raw Materials and restoration of the landscape or conversion of quarries and mines for other uses after the completion of operations, subject to compliance with environmental legislation.
Accelerate the completion of the tenders for the geothermal exploitation of the selected areas and promote geothermal energy in the national energy balance.
Our goal is to create an economy that will utilize and respect the country's natural wealth, thus contributing to the improvement of the quality of life of Greeks.
v) Opportunities in the ICT sector A critical sector that we believe can contribute to the recovery of the Greek economy is that of information and communication technologies (ICT), as a strategic sector of entrepreneurship.
More than 26,000 companies with 80,000 employees are active in high-tech sectors in our country.
The policies that have been implemented have been geared more towards the integration of knowledge produced elsewhere, without making Greece a shareholder in the knowledge production process.
However, the Greek ICT sector offers unique opportunities to invest in competitive and innovative value-added products and services with global reach.
International companies, whose business functions require the provision of specialized services, will find attractive human resources in Greece, e.g. in the fields of software research and development or the creation of integrated microcircuits, when already 80% of the total sales of the Greek microelectronics sector are made outside Greece.
Greece's comparative advantages are:  Skilled personnel with technological expertise (workforce with high rates of bachelor's and master's degrees and professional experience)
Significant increase in the use of new technologies
Attractive funding opportunities - programmes that are part of the National Strategic Reference Framework (NSRF) and support the implementation of Research and Development (R&D) projects
Corporate ethics of international standards
It is therefore reasonable, therefore, that all policies should be geared towards innovation and the promotion of the provision of "external resources" services by our country's enterprises, as external partners of large international companies.
This objective will be achieved by: Strengthening extroversion and creating partnerships in international and European markets
Objectives
Primary R&D production in collaboration with academia and research and transformation of results into applicable products
Facilitating foreign direct investment in the ICT sector
Exploiting cost sensitivity to recession
vi) Greece - transit and trade hub The objective of transforming our country into a commercial and transit hub of maritime transport and communication is not unrealistic given its geomorphology and geographical position which places it at the centre of one of the three largest transcontinental routes worldwide (Europe-Asia/Africa) and the average annual growth of Greek maritime trade over the last decade, 9%, while the markets of Eastern Europe are growing at an annual rate of 10% - 15%.
In order for Greek ports to cope with competition from other Balkan freight centres, however, it is necessary: A specific and uniform legislative framework for the execution of supply chain activities, reduction of procedural procedures in order to reduce loading/unloading time and encourage extroversion
Interconnection of hubs to the national network and integration into the international freight network; increase of air and sea connections of the region with foreign destinations, expansion of rail transport to the markets of central and eastern Europe; improvement of existing infrastructure
Upgrading the country's ports, first of all Piraeus, Thessaloniki and Igoumenitsa, as poles for the development of new services and technological innovation
The government announced the privatisation of PPA and PPA and the regional ports in the next two years.
There are risks of losing the dominant role in the port system and the safeguarding of the public goods produced by the port (security, passenger terminal, ferry service, charges and tariff policy, service to the national economy) is put in jeopardy.
On the contrary, we believe that the country's port system is an important tool for development policy.
The government's argument that growth requires attracting private capital and that this can only be done through privatisation is not valid, since most countries secure significant levels of foreign direct investment in ports, without privatising ownership but through concessions of commercial activities to private parties.
Our proposal includes a single and comprehensive package that constitutes a real reform of port policy with the following critical parameters:
Maintaining the public character of the company by ensuring the absolute majority of the share capital.
Establishment of public port authority policies, which will develop the ports with the objectives of efficient public transport (ship) service, efficient service within the port (cargo management, passenger movement), proper regulation of environmental, health and safety issues and synergies with the city, assisting the development of complementary industrial and service activities in the land area and the overall enhancement of regional development.
Development of advantageous concession procedures and the undertaking of specific commercial activities by private providers of port services, subject to the existence of public port authorities that safeguard the public interest and regulate the promotion of the common interest of all parties involved.
In order to implement this port policy, a revision of the privatisation programme of the Memorandum is necessary.
The creation of the Ministry of Environment and Climate Change gave hope for addressing contemporary environmental and development issues through the logic of sustainability.
In practice, however, a first assessment of the 2.5 years of operation of the Ministry of Environment and Energy shows that no significant interventions have been made, such as the adaptation of energy policy at least to the Kyoto targets and addressing the pathologies in solid waste management.
In order to advance the environmental priorities appropriate to a modern European state, there must be a comprehensive commitment at the level of government planning and implementation.
The legislative framework is in place and has been aligned with EU legislation, but implementation is lagging behind.
In order to achieve substantial results, a comprehensive environmental strategy is needed, which "touches" all areas of government policy responsibility and uses "modern" methods, such as the application of the Environmental Responsibility logic, incentives for better environmental performance through benefits from the private sector and tax policy tools.
The "cheap growth", whose effects weigh on the present and the future, has reached its limits.
We support any change towards low-carbon economies in all sectors. We argue that we need to move from the doctrine that "the environment costs" to the notion that "protection pays".
In times of crisis, ecological thinking offers many "ideas" that traditional schools of thought are unable to find:
Equivalent to the mode of production which is very expensive, energy-intensive and polluting.
Equivalent in the way of consumption, as it is wasteful, dirty and "cheap".
Equivalent in the way we manage our "waste", as it is expensive, dangerous and unsightly!
It offers clean energy equivalent to jobs and breathing quality.
It creates equivalents in abandoned agriculture, in transport, in tourism.
In the overall framework of the Europe 2020 strategy, which aims for sustainable and inclusive growth, a large part of the policy contains key elements of environmental policy, which we will be called upon to turn into a national strategy.
High priority is given to the axes of using renewable energy resources and tackling climate change. Community resources for infrastructure projects will now be reduced, which means that other financial instruments will have to be found to complete them. The proposals of the Democratic Left:
Integration of infrastructure for solid and liquid waste management with various financial tools, incentives (monetary) to local communities, in order to reduce the cost of management
Coordinated management of the natural environment (protected areas) combined with local development models with emphasis on rural and soft tourism activities
Preparation of an integrated national Spatial Plan and individual Spatial Plans with "zoning of activities¬ in urban areas, rural areas, special areas with clear guidelines for the development of activities in each zone, taking into account actual data on economic development and the state of the environment.
Emphasis on the extensive use of Renewable Energy Sources (RES), after proper planning
Rational management of natural resources (irrigation/water, air, forests, etc.).
Proper implementation of administrative functions at central/regional level, control mechanisms, use of private initiative where lower costs and proper management are ensured.
We support, as a minimum, the achievement of the target of 40% penetration of RES in electricity generation by 2020, as set by European and national legislation.
This is the first step towards the gradual decoupling of the country from fossil fuels and the achievement of a 100% renewable energy system in electricity generation in the coming decades.
In order to reach this target, significant investments are needed, both in small and decentralised applications and in larger, industrial-scale RES installations.
We support the establishment and achievement of legally binding targets at European and national level and the promotion of measures and policies that will directly contribute to reducing energy consumption.
We are positive about third-party financing of projects (HUT) to change the energy systems of large public buildings (e.g. hot water production in hospitals using solar water heaters, installation of biomass burners in schools, installation of BEMS in public buildings, etc.).
In the Greek periphery, spatial planning integrated in a regional development policy framework can promote: Stimulate agricultural production by protecting agricultural land (from building and partitioning) and promoting vertical integration in production.
The demarcation of productive zones and their organisation with urban planning or other tools.
The development of soft forms of quality tourism, with respect for the environment and control of the impact of mass tourism.
The development of abandoned buildings, historic traditional settlements, as well as degraded settlements adjacent to areas of outstanding natural beauty.
This direction can be combined with the concept of holiday homes, under controlled terms and conditions.
It could be the only acceptable concept of holiday home, which, with appropriate promotion and compensatory arrangements, could potentially act as a means of a controlled revitalisation of rural construction activity, together with the upgrading of the urban landscape.
The development of controlled-scale public investment in infrastructure, depending on the potential and dynamics of each region, with the aim of integrating and stimulating local development potential.
The upgrading of the settlement wealth of the Greek province, the revival of the settlement network, the creative protection of the traditional architectural heritage, the controlled expansion of settlements with harmonious integration of new developments into the landscape and the organization, with density control, of the traditional nuclei of our villages.
Ecotourism interventions aimed at the complex promotion of natural and cultural landscapes, with the aim of obtaining an eco-label.
Obtaining the label will integrate these areas into international ecotourism networks.
Bioclimatic regeneration of degraded public spaces in urban areas adjacent to areas of tourist interest, whose regeneration would increase the tourist added value of the area.
The provision of incentives and financial tools for energy and aesthetic upgrading of building complexes located near architectural heritage monuments (surrounding urban image).
For the construction sector, any kind of upgrading of the existing residential fabric with the aim of sustainable cities (redevelopment, energy upgrades, etc.) is an immediate and feasible way out of the prolonged crisis.
It is necessary to promote them: Absolute restriction of off-plan building, until its definitive abolition.
Combating the decadent phenomenon of arbitrary building, a phenomenon which, in crisis conditions, risks becoming more widespread.
No solution will be feasible if its sole purpose is to collect legalisation fees.  Environmentally and culturally sensitive areas (designated areas, archaeological sites, encroached streams, encroached forests and public land) must be 'cleared' of all the arbitrary property in them.
A review by an architectural committee or an architectural committee or an SSEP is required to judge the extent to which the arbitrary buildings alter the nearby natural environment or the local traditional character of the listed settlements with which they are adjacent or integrated, in order to be obliged to carry out corrective works to harmonise the buildings aesthetically.
Establish an obligation for owners of unauthorized buildings to issue an energy certificate and upgrade them energetically (depending on the age of the buildings and the category they will be rated).
The establishment of a completely different concept of land use in off-plan areas throughout the Territory is necessary and should slowly begin to mature.
In addition to the uses defined on the basis of the G.P.S. in force or where studies have been carried out and their validation is pending, the establishment of an exclusive right only to more or less organised settlements - even if with minimal coherence - should be matured.
Such organized settlements are understood to be those already existing, whose existing boundaries, based on criteria of specific needs, can be expanded in a controlled manner - as well as new settlements that can be established under specific conditions, criteria and clear urban planning and architectural guidelines, which will be defined by law each time.
This new logic does not define complex exceptions for where off-plan building is not allowed, as it is abolished - but it emphasizes the mandatory form of structured and organized settlements with a predetermined development dynamic within a specific ecodynamic framework, taking into account regional development policies at the national level.
A basic precondition for the introduction of building rights in settlements, (which is equivalent to the gradual complete prohibition of off-plan building), is the disengagement from the horror of political costs, which is mainly due to the possible overturning of existing entrenched parameters for calculating the value and exploitability of land.
With a very careful and well-designed choice of criteria, a procedure should be defined for a fair return of lost land values due to the abolition of "off-plan building rights", either by granting land to new settlements established in areas of public or municipal ownership, or by modifying the building rights of owners of land in existing settlements in the same or another area.
The obvious difficulty of this process of balancing the value of land and land plots involves painstaking and extremely careful preparation in terms of establishing criteria, parameters, variable factors involved and, above all, absolute transparency in the operation of the implementing bodies.
The intended result is: The preservation and maintenance of the countryside as an undisturbed and non-fragmented ecosystem, with soft uses of agricultural, livestock, agro-tourism, ecotourism and cultural character.
To prevent further deterioration of the natural topography of the countryside from a landscape point of view.
The conservation - restoration of natural fauna & flora in non-agricultural zones.
Our general principle is that we must systematically move towards limiting building only within organized receptors, removing all exceptions that exist that destroy landscapes, biodiversity, and aquifers, and create landslides,
while increasing the cost of running the local authorities by building infrastructure and increasing the cost of supporting homes far from settlements.
3.6 Urban Centres Must be implemented consistently: The strategy of ecological-sustainable building, including the maintenance and upgrading of the existing building stock, especially buildings of architectural and cultural interest.
This sector creates many more jobs than new buildings.
The principle of the compact city based on the introduction of an integrated regeneration policy, with emphasis on the upgrading of public space.
Land use policy in combination with the public transport system so as to effectively control both the development of central functions at the expense of residential areas and the use of private cars, which degrades the urban environment and contributes to climate change phenomena.
Control of urban density in combination with land use and transport system, with reduction of excessive building rates and systematic control of overruns.
Strictly controlled residential expansion with incentives for organised developments, aiming at limiting land consumption on the one hand and integrating social housing policy into urban development, with public-private partnership.
Rational management of public land with the dual objective of its prudent use in the siting of public uses or upgraded private investments, but also the provision of open spaces and the redistribution of benefits in order to mitigate spatial disparities.
In general, the use of public property can become the vehicle for urban development programmes of great scope and dynamism, if they are integrated into an integrated plan for regional and local development (this is where our proposal for the use of Ellinikon comes in, i.e. to be used for spatial justice in the whole of Attica).
Urban organisation, especially in areas of uncontrolled development, such as adjacent commercial or productive activities at the entrances to cities.
Establishing land policy instruments, aiming at public appropriation of the surplus value of land from projects and programmes and securing resources for environmental upgrading and social cohesion policies in the city.
Mapping of environmental - spatial strategy, based on actual data (land registry, land use, points of particular interest, disadvantaged areas, potential for RES etc.) per Region.
3.7 Sustainable waste management Waste "generation" is a by-product of the way products are produced, marketed and consumed.
It even shows a direct correlation with the standard of living (GDP per capita) of each country.
Greece, 30th in the world in terms of the prosperity index, is also showing huge delays and distortions, which are costing the Greek people, of course, economically and environmentally.
We have gone from an absolute lack of policy on the problem to a slow, tortuous, lacking (sometimes) adoption at the legal level of the policies crystallized in the European Union.
But there is a long way from the passing of laws to their effective management and implementation.
The existing institutional framework (incorporation of EU Directive 98/2008) clearly introduces the need to decouple waste production from economic development.
It also prioritises policy priorities for their management around five axes:
 Preventing the creation - reducing the volume of waste generated.
It is up to each Member State to develop targeted policies to achieve a measurable result.
Beyond the necessary political decision, waste prevention is not achieved by horizontal measures or general 'declarations', it requires the involvement of specialised scientists to develop specific policy measures.
It is also an opportunity to employ (for a limited time and with a targeted effect) scientific potential, at national or regional level, to put the European Directive into practice.
 The reuse of products (before they become waste).
Greece can and should promote actions and measures either for the reuse of products (e.g. furniture, household appliances, etc.) or for the substitution of single-use (or limited-life) products with other, multi-use, longer-lasting products (substitution of plastic with glass bottles, plastic bags with cloth bags, etc.).
It is also a field for targeted employment of Greek scientists and creation of added value (research on environmentally friendly paints and varnishes, biodegradable, burners, fireplaces and heating systems based on pellets, wood cheeps etc., national certification system for environmentally friendly wooden constructions etc.).
The reuse of materials can and should be an opportunity to activate municipal, social, private (or a combination of all of them) entrepreneurship to repair and re-market used objects and appliances, absorbing a percentage of unemployed (and even older or long-term unemployed) in "traditional" jobs that are being lost: carpentry, etc.
 The recycling of materials.
Recycling does not simply reduce the amount of waste going to the next two stages: it is a critical action for the supply of certain metals (copper, antimony, etc.) in the coming decades, essential for the production of consumer products.
Recycling is a sine qua non condition for the drastic reduction (or even complete elimination) of polluting, toxic waste with a very long lifetime, when simply discarded, in nature (plastics, heavy metals contained in electronic devices), but also for spectacular energy savings (e.g. aluminium recycling).
The recent Waste Management Directive 98/2008, which must be implemented by Member States by 2015, provides for source separation and separate collection for four (at least) target materials: paper, plastic, glass and aluminium.
It sets specific, high and quantitative targets for these materials, as well as for the separate collection of biodegradable, organic waste, which must also be sent for recycling (composting: production of soil improver for agricultural or other uses).
Therefore, both the existing Collective Systems for various products and materials and the local authorities, the only ones responsible under the current legislation for organising the collection and collection of municipal waste (up to the transhipment stage) must adapt their operational plans to the new data and be able to achieve the qualitative and quantitative targets of the Directive.
Collective Systems (throughout the country) should be set up for other types of waste (aggregates, medicines, etc.),
A provision of the Directive, but also an urgent need for the transparency and consolidation of waste policy in Greece, is the publication of data on waste management.
We request from all stakeholders (local authorities, EODSA, Regions and other bodies and companies) the mandatory posting on the internet of all data concerning waste management: budget execution, equipment status and use, human resources, qualitative and quantitative data of the Cleaning and Recycling services.
Recycling creates many more jobs than the traditional (and exclusive method of management in Greece) disposal in landfills.
In some actions (recycling of computers) it creates 300 jobs - while the disposal of the same quantity in landfills creates only one (1)!
Energy recovery from waste.
Energy recovery is considered an acceptable management step as long as the policies and quantitative targets of the previous steps have exhausted all their potential.
Energy recovery, according to the Directive, is an acceptable management method only if the efficiency of the plant is above 0.65.
It also obviously sets very high standards in terms of the environmental conditions for the approval of the construction and operation of similar plants.
The "logic" of the European Directive is to "exhaust" the previous steps before moving on to the next.
In Greece, where the inadequacy of political personnel at all levels leads to the hasty adoption of "zero effort solutions" (but at high cost to citizens), the debate on energy utilization puts the cart before the horse.
Disposal in a Landfill (Waste).
The "traditional" (and exclusive for Greece) method is considered - and must become - the ultimate management tool.
Obviously, the previous 'pillars' of management should lead to dramatically under-manifold quantities of waste being sent to landfill (or landfill sites).
It is also necessary to include in the disposal costs the "external", environmental costs of dumping waste in nature.
The dramatic situation of waste management in Greece, which leads to hidden high costs both for economic activity and development and for citizens, must be reversed by "changing the message" and setting an example.
From the traditional (and ineffective) charging of cleaning fees based on property (floor area), we need to move to a grid of incentives and disincentives that will discourage consumer behaviour and encourage more environmentally friendly approaches.
The transfer to the citizen of the real cost of waste management ("pay as you throw away"), carefully designed (another field of activity and employment of scientific potential) could encourage both the market and industry towards the production of less waste, and the citizen towards the separation of his waste, the promotion of recycling, and the local authorities towards a fairer and more efficient charging for the services they have to offer to citizens.
- Updating the National and Regional Waste Management Plans Following the implementation of "Kallikrates", the restructuring of the country's self-governing map and the incorporation of Directive 98/2008 into national law, it is necessary to update both the national and regional Waste Management Plans (WMPs).
The WFDs should specify all the policies and quantitative objectives of the Directive, but also include provisions for other categories of the European Waste List (EWC): hospital / infectious / hazardous, inert / toxic / hazardous industrial waste, liquid effluents, etc.
The WFDs must take into account technological developments in waste management, economic and social developments in each region and, above all, achieve economies of scale - not just stitch together other, older local plans.
In addition to environmental crises, inefficient waste management to date creates "asymmetric" burdens on the country's economic development efforts.
Greater protection for local endemic species, i.e. those whose habitat is limited to a single area of the country.
Protection measures to prevent the deterioration of the aesthetic physiognomy of the country and not to lose an important resource for tourism.
The ways and methods of protection must be specified by scientific analyses, such as environmental impact studies and specific environmental studies, depending on the specific needs of the various species of flora or fauna, ecosystems, landscapes.
The creation of management bodies for all protected areas and the subsequent demarcation of these areas will lead to the preparation of management plans for each of them.
The revitalisation of productive activities in the countryside requires the search for constructive ways of cooperation between agriculture, livestock, fisheries, renewable energy, tourism, mining, industry and the practical protection of nature.
Specifically for industry, we argue that it should only be allowed to exist within designated areas (Biopark, Biopark, etc.) and not anywhere on the sole excuse that it provides jobs.
After all, this is the standard European policy on the matter and, moreover, the organisation of such places creates jobs.
Rational management requires savings, reduction of pollution, integration of wastewater treatment plants, reuse of treated wastewater products in agriculture or in aquifer recharge.
In Greece, the following are found: absence of a structured measurement and monitoring network, increased pollution of groundwater and some surface waters, no or inadequate water pricing, absence of planning and management at river basin level, absence of social participation.
Of particular importance for the rational management of Greek water resources is the gradual but faithful implementation for the coming years of the standards and requirements set by the important EU Directives on water and the Marine Strategy.
At the same time, the promotion, completion and support of biological treatment and reuse of treated wastewater and sludge is required, either for use in agriculture (if it meets the specifications) or for thermal utilisation (electricity generation, cement, etc.), since it is biomass and can replace fossil fuels.
Furthermore, the phenomenon of forest fires has increased significantly over the last 25 years and is the most important factor in the decline of low-altitude forests.
The unilateral emphasis on fire suppression is very expensive and has limited effectiveness.
On the contrary, there is a major lag in reducing overgrazing and grazing on burnt land.
Emphasis is also needed on prevention, with the creation of infrastructure such as a forest register and cadastre, forest inventories, studies and technical preventive measures.
3.9 Rights of the animals
The Democratic Left subscribes to the "Declaration on the Rights of Animals", drawn up by the International Union for the Rights of Animals (Paris, 1978), considering it as a first step towards the full harmonization of international and Greek legislation with modern concepts of the rights of all intelligent beings on our planet.
3.10 Transport - Sustainable mobility
For the Democratic Left, the ability to move is a social right that should not depend on economic status or place of residence.
We support the only environmentally friendly alternative, the collective modes of transport, and in particular the fixed railways (metro, tram, suburban railway) and the railway.
We call for the development of Athens and Thessaloniki around the nodes of existing and future public transport systems, with regulatory plans aiming at a 'city-railway' and at the same time discouraging the use of private cars.
At these hubs, stations are needed to facilitate transfers and combined transport, with more modes of transport.
We thus support the policy of a compact city, with attractive, high-quality public transport for all citizens, especially for those who have no alternative means of transport.
The public sector should bear the cost of a reduced fare for the unemployed and those below the poverty line.
For every €1 spent by the public sector on road infrastructure in urban centres over the next 15 years, €3 should be spent on the development of collective transport.
It is well known that investments in public transport have a significantly higher multiplier effect on employment than investments in road infrastructure.
Trams and buses running alongside cars should be given more dedicated lanes and high priority at junctions.
The night-time operation of public transport should also be extended.
We support the city of short distances with dense networks of sidewalks, unobstructed by illegally parked cars, motorcycles, poles and kiosks so that they are passable for children, elderly and disabled people.
We demand the acceleration of cycle paths and safe parking spaces for bicycles at the stations of the public transport system that encourage soft mobility.
Road transport is responsible for about 60% of final oil consumption, 75% of nitrogen oxide emissions and 25% of greenhouse gas emissions in our country.
The cost of road accidents and time lost in congestion is estimated at 2-3% of GDP.
In the context of an ecological tax reform (by reducing taxes on labour), the already increased tax on motor fuel, while committing additional revenues to Public Transport, internalises the cost of car use and ensures politically acceptable resources for the development and operation of Public Transport.
We are committed to achieving the European target of a 50% reduction in fatal accidents as soon as possible.
In addition to setting speed limits at reliable levels, resources are urgently needed for abandoned road maintenance and improving poor features at dangerous road or pedestrian crossings.
We call for the public share of the revenues from tolls and concessions of transport infrastructure to be earmarked for investment in public transport and railways, as is already the case in France.
The railway should be strategic, with the first priority being the modernisation of its infrastructure on the Patras-Dessaloniki axis - which is taking very slow steps.
We seek effective absorption of NSRF funds by ERGOSE with a balanced distribution in the region and upgrading the operation of OSE.
Creation of social bodies for coastal transport with the participation of local authorities and the central state, as well as a radical redesign of the network connecting the islands.
Withdrawal of unsafe (single-walled) or ageing ships.
Kerosene pricing in the transport sector where air transport has the most intensive climate footprint.
3.11 On the political-administrative system of support for planning
The promotion of the above policies will not be feasible unless a system of upgrading public administrative planning structures is established, based on the decentralisation of responsibilities to the elected region and primary local government, based on the principle of subsidiarity and the participation of civil society in decision-making and monitoring of their implementation.
The introduction of preventive constitutional control through the Council of State (Council of State) in the adoption of high-level regulatory or directive acts (by Presidential Decrees) will allow the unhindered decentralisation of competences in acts of specialisation of planning on a local scale, while at the same time the structures of control of the legality and implementation of institutionalised plans and policies should be strengthened.
At all levels (state, regional and local), a rationalisation of the distribution of responsibilities is required, with a view to eliminating overlaps in the functions and roles of administrative units, increasing the potential and role of the Directorates, while reducing their number and linking spatial and urban planning policies with environmental policies, redistributing staff according to needs and policy objectives, reducing the number of agencies and a controlled policy of recruiting new scientists, as well as a reduction in the number of staff, and a reduction in the number of staff.
Training of executives and elected officials in planning and environmental protection is also required to enable them to take on increased responsibilities.
Unfortunately, with Kallikrates, an opportunity to reorganise the structures was lost, as demonstrated by the plethora of general directorates envisaged in the regions, with overlapping responsibilities even within them and a tragic retention of responsibilities at state level.
An opportunity to establish democratic institutions of regional self-government and at the same time to develop an executive policy-making expertise in the administration of ministries was ultimately lost.
Finally, the effective implementation of the programme in spatial planning will require an audit of the structures and practices of the Green Fund, which has so far failed to show signs of democratic functioning, as announced.
Already there is an uncontrolled possibility of allocating resources to objectives other than those for which they are received.
This practice, already known since the operation of the ETERPS, is tragically confirmed by the return of the revenues from the "settlement" of the semi-open spaces to the black hole of the deficit, instead of stimulating the resources of the Local Authorities, an act necessary for the exercise of their role in the provision of urban social infrastructure.
We do not share the introduction of deregulation policies - ideologically reinforced in the context of the economic crisis.
On the contrary, we believe that spatial and urban planning - which is also a constitutional obligation of the state since 1975 - is the pillar for the reversal of the current destructive development model, for the establishment of a rational and sustainable model, which will give impetus to national productive forces and opportunities to local entrepreneurship, with respect to the boundaries of the regions and the carrying capacity of local ecosystems.
4. IMMEDIATE RELIEF MEASURES - MODERN AND EFFICIENT WELFARE STATE
Social policy in the current period is crucial for the lives of citizens.
We believe that there is a possibility and an obligation to pursue social policy in an environment of crisis and economic hardship.
The critical juncture for our country leads us to formulate a proposal for social policy on two main axes.
First, an immediate relief programme for those affected, with targets and measures to protect those in dire need.
Second, a matrix of supportive public policies that will in a horizontal way lighten the burden of citizens, in the context of an overall effort to rebuild and restructure the welfare state.
The welfare state is a central pillar of our programme proposal.
We want to maintain it, strengthen it and make it more efficient and that is why we are determined to adapt it to new conditions and data.
A broad restructuring and reform of the social policy system is the only way to achieve this goal. This effort must be based on three principles.
The first principle is to finance and develop the welfare state on the basis of a balanced budget and not from permanent deficits and borrowed resources.
This basic principle shields the welfare state from pressures and ideological approaches to its devaluation and makes it sustainable and stable over time.
The second principle is to target and give priority to those who are really in need and not to groups who through their power privilegedly benefit from it, eliminating the possibilities for corresponding provisions for those who are really in need.
The third principle is the rational management of resources in order to eliminate the phenomena of illicit individual gain or appropriation by interests that dominate the resources.
4.1 Direct Programme
- Immediate relief programme for those in dire need
Feeding programmes for those in need.
Provision for the homeless: Legislative definition of homeless people as a special social group.
Welfare in cooperation with the Local Government to create spaces, using the stagnant public building stock, where homeless people can find shelter, sanitary conditions, food, clothing, information on job search and support for integration.
Registering pupils with serious poverty problems and organising care with the participation of local authorities, respecting their personality and individuality.
Finding families who have no income and supporting them directly. Providing for single-parent and large families.
Supporting the disabled by exhausting subsidy possibilities.
Consolidation of disability benefits into a new disability allowance, the amount of which will vary according to the needs of each form of disability.
Rent allowance for low-income families on a non-contributory basis.
Gradual increase of unemployment benefits in parallel with the increase of the minimum wage.
Supporting the long-term unemployed who have a proven low income by extending the welfare benefit to the long-term unemployed regardless of age.
Designing and phasing in a minimum guaranteed income by the end of 2013, a measure already in place in 23 Member States.
Immediate use of available European Social Fund resources to integrate the unemployed into training, work experience and apprenticeships.
4.2 Work
 Work for all
Work is a right.
It is the basis on which every modern society is built, it is the pillar of the welfare state.
It is the duty of the State to implement those policies that will ensure work for all.
Creating new jobs is a priority of our programme proposal.
New jobs
Job creation is the result of strategic choices with a medium-term horizon.
New jobs will be created in our country through the implementation of development policies that will reconstruct the productive fabric and at the same time change the productive model of the country in τομείς| such as:
Renewable energy sources
Integrated waste management systems
Agricultural production
Tourism
Research, innovation
Entrepreneurship, youth entrepreneurship
 Industrial relations
Labour relations have become more flexible in our country.
Conquests of the labour movement have been annihilated.
It is necessary to develop a grid of actions for :Worker protection by strengthening the Labour Inspectorate
Fight against undeclared and uninsured work
Repeal of the legislative act that reduced minimum wages and re-regulation of labour relations in conjunction with a different programme to boost competitiveness (amendment of the Memorandum of Understanding).
Gradual improvement in minimum wages as the economy recovers.
Emphasis on social partner dialogue and strengthening collective bargaining.
A review of labour legislation and a strategic plan of long-term objectives following an extensive social dialogue.
 Repeal of the legislative act that reduced minimum wages and re-regulation of labour relations in conjunction with a different programme to boost competitiveness (amendment to the agreed framework of the Memorandum).
The requirement to reduce wage costs, apart from being socially unfair, is also ineffective in relation to the objective of competitiveness.
Competitiveness depends on a number of factors including wage costs, non-wage costs, labour productivity and the general economic - fiscal and institutional framework that a country offers to businesses.
The structure of the Greek economy and the non-implementation of structural reforms led in the past period to the unnecessary loss of much of the sacrifice of the people on the altar of meagre economic results.
Reducing wages as a means of improving competitiveness leads to the opposite result in the long run.
Reversing the downward wage trend and restoring industrial relations is an objective that can be pursued provided that a comprehensive programme is put in place to address the other factors that constrain competitiveness.
The axes of such a programme will be: A 20% reduction in the cost of social security contributions, with provision for replacing the losses incurred by the social security funds.
Reducing bureaucracy, fighting corruption, delivering justice in a timely manner, creating a stable tax system, improving the functioning of the state sector and improving infrastructure.
Supporting businesses through the operation of upgraded support structures for information, product quality upgrading and the organisation of distribution networks.
The preparation of an export strategy and a three-year export development plan that takes advantage of all emerging opportunities.
Specifically, as regards the reduction of employer contributions to compensate for the losses to the social security funds, there should be a package of regulations utilizing the proposals submitted by the social partners, such as the imposition of a special insurance fee equal to 2 per cent of the annual turnover of each company, which will be paid with the periodic NICs every quarter and will be deductible from tax as an expense.
Other proposals such as a special tax on the banking sector could also be considered in addition.
The aim should be to achieve by the end of 2013, through the introduction of the reduction in social security contributions and improvements in the areas of factors that are detrimental to competitiveness, to recover the 22% loss of the minimum wage.
In the same period we should succeed in tackling widespread over-exploitation through uninsured work by developing a reliable control system by labour inspections and the IKA and introducing the electronic labour card.
This new framework for promoting competitiveness must be reflected in a new social partners' agreement.
- Reorganisation of the OAED
Decentralisation of OAED services.
Reform and modernisation of the institutional framework and the re-training and re-training programmes for the unemployed.
Cooperation of the OAED with educational institutions and local authorities in order to exploit comparative advantages per region of the country.
4.3 Insurance
 Insurance system
The core of the welfare state is the social security system.
A sustainable and satisfactory insurance system is the result of many parameters.
The relationship between workers and pensioners, intergenerational solidarity, the demographic profile of the country and the rational management of the system's resources are basic prerequisites for a fair social security system that respects the efforts of those who work hard, but also the efforts of workers and the hope of the new generation.
A fair agreement between the parties.
The social security system needs reform.
The success of the reform requires all stakeholders to understand a basic premise.
The previous pension system redistributed resources and rights but in the opposite direction: it favoured the rich at the expense of the poor, the self-employed at the expense of the employed, public sector workers at the expense of private sector workers, those close to retirement age at the expense of the newly insured - and above all it favoured the current generation by imposing unbearable burdens on the next.
This is why it is necessary to unify the pension system, to completely abolish all social resources, to support the income of all elderly people, regardless of their social security fund or professional sector.
In any case, the basic pension (financed by the state budget, according to the new insurance legislation) must be paid to every citizen who reaches the age of 65 without any other conditions and with full protection of these pensions against inflation.
Economically, these measures can be supported by savings, the use of revenues from sectors not foreseen in the Memorandum or by over-performance of measures, reorganization in the scope and especially in the quality of public support functions provided, mobilization of civil society, participation of those who benefit from state regulations such as banks from recapitalization.
4.4 PEOPLE WITH DISABILITIES
 Introduction
The multifaceted crisis and the efforts to exit from it must not lead society to indifference to its fellow human beings.
Equality is a value that is judged in practice, in everyday life.
Equality, equal opportunities for all citizens, the participation of all in social and economic life is not a luxury.
It is the State's obligation to ensure this for everyone, especially for people with disabilities.
An open society for all with dignity.
Interventions
Accessibility for all everywhere, in services, in the urban environment, in public transport.
Use of technological means to facilitate citizens and construction of appropriate infrastructure.
Strengthening the financial support of the disabled by exhausting subsidy possibilities. Consolidation of disability benefits into a new disability allowance, the amount of which will vary according to the needs of each form of disability.
Special training and education programmes aimed at vocational rehabilitation.
Dialogue - long-term programme
The issue is not limited to interventions and corrective actions aimed at removing injustices.
The Democratic Left believes and proposes a broad social dialogue with the aim of developing a strategic plan for a just, open society with equal citizenship in practice and in everyday life, the citizen with disabilities.
4.5 Health
Introduction
Health is a critical collective good and the State has an obligation to ensure the provision of health services to all citizens without exception.
The health system has a key role to play.
For every citizen is called upon to stand as a bulwark against the risk of illness and the threat of personal or family breakdown that can be caused by serious illness.
It is a barrier to the breakdown of social cohesion fuelled by inequalities and lack of solidarity.
Now, more than ever, the country needs a humane, efficient and fair health care system.
Our strategic objective is to defend a public health system supported by the private sector with clear rules to ensure equal opportunities for all citizens to access health services.
Reform of the health system
The health care system in Greece has structural problems directly comparable to the rest of the state structure.
Fragmented funding system, inequitable distribution of resources, poor rational management, corruption, centralisation, wasteful pharmaceutical expenditure, reduced ability to access services on the basis of a rational plan, absence of an effective control mechanism, informal fees, lack of incentives to improve services and failure to reform.
Key assumptions
Health care in Greece is not free.
The poorest spend more of their income on health care.
There is a large number of doctors but a shortage in general medicine.
Health expenditure has been on an upward trend.
There are outlets that create artificial demand to satisfy selfish interests.
The NHS is lagging behind in primary care due to so-called design flaw.
Privatisation of outpatient care as the NHS is unilaterally hospital-centred and heterogeneous.
The health sector is dominated by all sorts of interests at many different levels.
Powerful guild interests have neutralised all reform efforts and led to the NHS in a quagmire.v
Restructuring proposal
A prerequisite is first of all the recording of the country's health needs for primary, secondary and tertiary care, in accordance with international standards but also taking into account the geographical specificities of the country.
The creation of a "health charter" will be an important tool for the geographical redistribution of health services, the updating of the obsolete organizations of all health structures, the implementation of operating rules in the services provided and ensuring decent working conditions and pay for health workers, so that - in the current economic context of the country - the needs of citizens are effectively served.
The consolidation of the health branches of the large insurance organisations is a firm position of the Left.
However, the lack of adequate planning, the tragic underfunding, the ambiguity in the way important issues are regulated and the lack of provisions for changing the model of primary care practice risk undermining this potentially important undertaking.
Addressing health issues in a comprehensive way, to overcome the fragmentation of care and the fragmentation between services and specialties, to combine prevention, diagnosis, treatment and rehabilitation, to reverse the model of excessive consumption of medical services, diagnostic tests and drugs.
Changing the basic orientation of health policies in our country towards prevention and health promotion, the development of primary care, the upgrading of supportive and welfare care.
Strengthening prevention, through strategic planning, information campaigns, school care and awareness raising.
"New balance¬ in the relationship between society and the medical profession as well as the body of other scientists and health professionals. , it is not possible to establish any public health policy without the formation of a 'critical mass' of active people who are actively and vigorously opposed to the corruption, individualism and inefficiency that prevail.
The urgent changes needed are through the systematic promotion of the people of this "other" health system, their perspective, their discourse and their role.
Telemedicine
In a country with many islands and many mountainous regions where the budgetary problem is great, the use of new technologies is crucial.
The use of telemedicine systems can relieve central hospital units, complement and support primary care and make a decisive contribution to the provision of reliable and quality health services throughout the country, regardless of geographical limitations.
Mental health
Developing primary mental health care to cover the whole population.
Particular importance to the early development of mental health policies aimed at the overall reduction of mental morbidity.
Develop child psychiatric services alongside the emphasis on education and child welfare policy.
Not to abandon psychiatric reform and points to the imminent risk of its complete abolition.
We propose a) the development of primary care,
(b) prevention of mental disorders with emphasis on childhood and adolescence,
c) treatment of mental disorder in the context of community psychiatry,
(d) full respect for patients' rights
e) promotion of mental health through appropriate social policies (e.g. maternity protection, right to work)
and (f) a constant struggle against discrimination and stigmatisation.
Shifting the focus from de-institutionalisation to prevention and treatment of new patients.
Cooperation between health, welfare, education and all those involved in the implementation of mental health policy, on the basis of a common action plan and objectives.
Rational use of the resources earmarked for mental health, rather than transferring them to other actions, as is currently the case.
Also the use of the assets of psychiatric institutions for the purposes of mental health policy and not their disposal to other interests.
4.6 Social welfare
 Intervention aimed at social protection
Social protection is a crucial factor in ensuring social cohesion.
Despite the country's finite budgetary possibilities, it is a critical sector.
Social wage
The state must organise and provide quality services by substituting household and citizen expenditure.
With the development of public social networks that will relieve low and middle incomes at a controlled fiscal cost.
Network of all-day primary schools
Extensive network of crèches and kindergartens
Primary care
Help at home, for the disabled or elderly
Reorganization and different philosophy of KAPI
All-day primary school and additional support programmes
Retraining and retraining. The private cost of meeting such needs is greater than a well-designed public government intervention. All these things cost money, but the lack of them costs more.
Decentralisation of services and the assumption of responsibilities and powers by local government.
Proximity is an important parameter that makes local government suitable for the implementation and development of such networks.
4.7 Amendments to the Memorandum
In order to implement these policies, it is necessary to amend the Memorandum and in particular to change the provision for the commitment of all revenues to debt servicing, so that there are possibilities for development and social policies.
The Memorandum sets as its sole objective the payment of interest payments and completely disregards the needs of society.
Specifically, it provides that all borrowing and national resources are included in the debt service target, even in case of over-performance.
On the contrary, in case of underperformance, it foresees that new measures will be imposed to reduce the income of the people.
This regulation is socially unacceptable and irrational.
It removes any opportunity to pursue complementary social or development-oriented policies and decouples the effort to achieve the objectives from the expectation of improving living conditions.
This regulation should be removed, as it highlights a punitive nature of the programme. What must be claimed are:
The revenues generated from over-performance should be under the jurisdiction of the Greek government and not be absorbed in debt service through tightening targets.
The revenue shortfall from underperformance, due to parameters such as the recession, should not be covered by one-off measures to reduce wages and pensions but should be given a one-year extension.
5. FOR DYNAMIC INCLUSION IN THE KNOWLEDGE SOCIETY
The aim is to implement a coherent programme of reforms so that the education system can play an important role in the country's reconstruction effort.
This is a long-term goal, which requires effort and planning, broader political and social consensus, but it is also urgent as investment in education is part of a sustainable plan for the restructuring of the country, society and the economy.
We therefore need a reform programme that will contribute to the upgrading of all three levels of education.
At the same time, there is a need for a planned and effective use of the resources available for lifelong learning and vocational training.
5.1 Primary education
In the last twenty years, significant changes have taken place in the field of primary education (establishment and consolidation of the institution of all-day school, enrichment of the teaching staff with a generation of graduates of University Pedagogical Schools and teachers of various specialties, introduction of new and better books, renewal of curricula, improvement of the material and technical infrastructure).
However, these changes have not been able to radically change the primary school and transform it from a closed, passive environment of knowledge accumulation to an active, constructive and lively environment of learning and socialisation of the child.
Traditional teaching methods (frontal delivery, sticking to the textbook, rote learning, etc.) still prevail.
At the same time, school libraries, physics laboratories and art classrooms remain educationally "dead", while interdisciplinarity and cooperative teaching are in their infancy.
The way in which the state and schools deal with the ever-increasing number of cases of children with school integration difficulties (distraction, hyperactivity, dyslexia, etc.) is totally inadequate, with the result that families bear the cost of dealing with the problems.
A strong ethnocentrism also survives in the physiognomy of the Greek primary school, which hinders the democratic educational integration of thousands of immigrant children and the prospect of neutral religious education.
Greek education remains propagandistic for the Orthodox religion, with compulsory morning prayer, compulsory church attendance and in fact compulsory religious education, which is in fact Orthodox catechism.
The party-state and the guild complex continue to undermine meritocracy, depriving Greek education of valuable staff.
Reform in primary education requires both the legislative initiative of the state and the active action of all the forces of the educational community.
In particular, teachers' associations must take a leading role in the radical renewal of school life, which in today's conditions can only be decentralised.
Our aims, then, are The complete secularisation of education. Abolition of morning prayer and compulsory church attendance. Making religion optional and changing the content of the course to religious studies.
Elimination of nationalist characteristics in favour of a democratic education that will facilitate the integration and socialisation of migrant children.
Changing content and teaching methods in line with new scientific orientations for learning. Strengthening laboratory-based active teaching and learning methods.
Ensure the continuous upgrading of teachers' knowledge and qualifications.
Regular updating of curricula and textbooks.
Eliminate one textbook per lesson and class. Open competitions for textbooks and the possibility for the school to choose among those approved by the Ministry of Education.
Opening the school to the community and the European environment. Strengthening local history and environmental education programmes and European exchange and contact programmes with European schools.
Upgrading infrastructure and strengthening school libraries.
Many of the above apply to all levels of education
5.2 Secondary education
Secondary education is a problematic educational level that needs a comprehensive overhaul.
The proposal of the Democratic Left aims to redefine the priorities and the role of secondary education, especially high school.
We propose a secondary education aimed at: acquiring knowledge and skills
knowledge of basic elements of science
in shaping a modern culture for students
in acquiring the necessary skills to continue studies in higher education
In secondary school, high school and secondary schools, a radical overhaul of the curricula is needed.
Support for all educational programmes aimed at reducing inequalities and enriching the learning process (remedial teaching, additional teaching support, migrant reception classes, support for special education, organised cultural activities and programmes).
Continuous teacher training and evaluation, merit-based recruitment and promotion.
Re-establishment of secondary technical education from scratch and the reconstruction of post-secondary education.
Change the system of admission to higher education, so that the Lyceum ceases to be an antechamber for the national examinations and acquires an autonomous educational role.
For the reconstruction of secondary education, we must move along four axes, which are: deep cuts in secondary education, upgrading of vocational guidance, reconstruction of the General High School and re-foundation of vocational education.
- High School
In secondary school we place particular emphasis on the acquisition of basic knowledge and skills.
The new pilot curricula being implemented contain many elements of this orientation and deserve to be supported.
The shift from a bibliocentric and material-centred approach to knowledge and frontal teaching to a more participatory and creative implementation of curricula by teachers and students is a necessary element of the new orientation.
Any reform effort should take as its starting point
the rationalisation of the secondary school curricula with an emphasis on in-depth teaching of the basic knowledge provided by each subject.
the rationalisation of the evaluation system, so that the grade of the high school diploma reflects reality.
vocational guidance with the help of specialised staff and psychologists, who will work individually with each pupil, draw up his/her skills portfolio and work with him/her and his/her parents.
Professional Orientation
We are changing and turning vocational guidance into a productive tool.
At the end of secondary school, each child passes the necessary tests, with answers to questionnaires and an interview with a panel of experts who give them an insight into their talents and aptitudes and advice on the next level of education they are to follow.
The aim is for each student to have basic knowledge and skills and an idea of what he or she wants and, above all, what he or she can do "when they grow up".
General Lyceum
The general high school is three years long and leads to a national baccalaureate with examinations at the end of the third grade, which are held within the school with common subjects drawn from a national bank of subjects.
The examination process must be governed by rules that ensure the reliability and impartiality of the results, including the marking of papers by teachers from another educational unit.
The number of hours that students spend in the classroom is reduced to 30 per week. The remaining up to 35 are devoted to gymnastics and sports, research projects. Also in the context of organized and evaluated programs in artistic activities, environmental education, experiential workshops, science workshops, etc.
For curricula, the views of universities and scientific associations are taken seriously into account. The curricula link the high school to the universities, so that part of the first year curriculum, depending on the direction and scientific subjects, is applied from the third year of high school.
For the first grade we propose a single curriculum. Here, among other things, special emphasis is placed on the course on School Vocational Guidance.
In upper secondary school students choose a direction. The directions have general education courses and specialization courses, compulsory and elective. The first direction leads to schools of physics, polytechnics and health sciences, the second to humanities and the third to economic and social studies.
In the 3rd grade students are taught the 4 compulsory subjects and English and two electives.
We integrate remedial lessons into the curriculum for core subjects. With compulsory participation of weaker students on the recommendation of the teacher in charge and the decision of the teachers' council.
Regarding the admission procedure to Universities for those students who wish to be admitted to a higher education school, it is proposed that:
For low-demand schools they are admitted directly with the grade of the national baccalaureate.
For high-demand schools, students take exams organised by a national exam board, in which universities have a weighted vote.
For the entire secondary education system, we propose periodic evaluation procedures of the educational work and teachers as critical factors in the quality of the learning process.We also propose the creation of a national evaluation body for school units, similar to the HQA.
- Vocational Training
In order for the new secondary vocational education to become a basic component of the much desired productive reconstruction and the turn of the Greek economy towards growth, the Democratic Left considers it necessary to restructure it comprehensively and fundamentally.
Our aim is to provide the student with all the necessary professional skills so that he or she can enter the labour market immediately. Under the present circumstances this is difficult to achieve immediately, but we have nothing but to initiate it.
The social devaluation of secondary vocational education to date, placing our country at the lowest point in the EU in terms of the number of students in all secondary education, has undermined the earning potential of young people and deprived the economy and society of competent and qualified executives.
The policies pursued fail to fulfil the purposes for which vocational education was established, namely to provide solid general education knowledge - a high school diploma - and reliable vocational skills - a specialisation degree.
Based on the policy gaps in this direction, the Democratic Left adopts the following positions:
The basis of vocational education can only be the teaching staff, with appropriate training, with continuous and substantial training, with full or partial integration in vocational education and training.
This means, inter alia, strengthening the relevant pedagogical studies and training, e.g. ASPATE, and linking the technological sector of higher education with a sufficient number of model vocational schools.
The educational material must be appropriate and of a high standard, made specifically for vocational education students.
Laboratory infrastructure needs to be completed and modernised both in large urban centres and in rural areas.
Specialisations and curricula need to be redesigned in the light of modern technological developments and labour market needs.
The reform of secondary initial vocational education and training must take into account the whole system of formal/formal education, apprenticeships, post-secondary, higher and lifelong learning.
Successful European examples of vocational education and training should be taken into account in this direction.
In the new Technological Lyceum, general education subjects, such as Eucalyptus, Chemistry, Biology, and Mathematics, should be strengthened and adapted to the needs of the respective disciplines.
Special teaching attention should be given to the students of the third grade who intend to take the special examinations for the ATEI. The technological high school should not lead to higher education.
An overhaul of the evaluation system and rules on discipline, absenteeism, etc. is needed.
To make obtaining high school technology credentials a more accountable and effortful endeavor.
This will significantly upgrade technology high schools, make them credible in the eyes of the public and attractive to a wider range and quality of students.
We welcome in particular the establishment of the 4th year of specialization in Technical Vocational Education which will give a C' category degree, after reliable and impartial examinations and with which the graduate will be able to immediately practice a profession.
It is required to solve the chronic problem of the administrative structure of technical and vocational education with the immediate establishment of a Directorate of Technical and Vocational Education in the Ministry of Education and Training.
All Technology Lyceums should be under the Ministry of Education and Science and not under other ministries and institutions, in order to ensure the unity of the educational process and the full utilization of teaching staff.
The low self-esteem of vocational education students, problems in their emotional development, difficulties in social adjustment leading to increased delinquency, extensive substance abuse, and cultural degradation need to be addressed.
Organised psychological support with qualified staff in each school, practical training, frequent visits to workplaces, political activity and the promotion of positive examples are considered essential.
The design of vocational education and training should be in harmony with a national development plan and linked to the national qualification framework, the standardisation and quality control of certificates and diplomas, and the professional organisations of graduates.
The definition of the framework and objectives of the sectors should be carried out by a body involving scientific, educational and professional bodies and chambers of commerce, with a view to implementing the relevant national development policy. This body will be under the supervision of the Ministry of Economic and Social Affairs.
This should be accompanied by specific incentives and facilities for young entrepreneurship in the technology and services sectors.
The establishment of the Technological Lyceum should be combined with the planned mergers or abolition of university schools and the reduction of admissions to universities, i.e. with the appropriate political decisions that will lead to a massive shift of young people towards vocational education.
The Democratic Left will join the dialogue on the Technical Lyceum and will discuss the proposals of the government, the educational community and the other parties, demanding respect for a meaningful dialogue, without predetermined decisions.
5.3 Higher Education
A single reform plan for education
The Democratic Left has repeatedly expressed its support for the reform of education in Greece and has specifically expressed its willingness to contribute substantially to the reform plans that aim to establish the critical and developmental role of knowledge as a public and social good and consequently to the reconstruction of the public sphere of education.
Education needs immediate and substantial reform.
Any delay undermines the country's growth prospects.
Reform, however, should not be limited to higher education alone.
This is a long-term goal, requiring effort and planning, broader political and social consensus, but it is also urgent as Greece is going through perhaps the most important crisis in its modern history.
We therefore need a coherent reform programme that includes all three levels of education.
Single area of Education and Research
A major reform in higher education must start from a new understanding of the link between higher education and research.
Higher education and research are by definition a single and indivisible set of activities, which is today of increasing strategic importance.
History, theory and international experience in the European Union and the more developed countries confirm this direction.
For this reason, it is proposed to create a single space for education and research, which will be distinguished by its autonomy, dynamism and diversity.
The Public University.
The Democratic Left supports a public university that is self-governing, self-assessed and accountable, because only it can ensure the social good of education, providing equal educational opportunities for all citizens.
At the same time, the Democratic Left supports changes that contribute to supporting the forces of excellence within universities and TEIs.
The extroversion that must distinguish the university requires its harmonisation with European and international practices, so that it can respond to its educational and research role and find its place in the international academic scene.
Specialising on the general positions we have already expressed, in view of the planned reform we propose the following:
Administration of higher education institutions
University reform is not limited to the issue of the administration of educational institutions.
University administration is an important issue but only in the context of a substantial reform that dares to open up the issue of academic reorganization and the curricula offered by Greek universities, that sees the centrality of research and links it to knowledge, that turns evaluation into a central process for the production of knowledge.
In this direction, a new administration is needed that is strong, effective, democratically legitimised and independent of interest groups inside and outside universities.
Specifically, for the administration of the Universities, we propose a dual administrative structure that will provide the guarantee of institutional counterweights with distinct roles and responsibilities.
The structure we propose is the following: rectors, vice-rectors, deans and department chairs, all unimember, i.e., administrative bodies, are elected by all faculty members.
The management boards consist of a majority of elected faculty members and a minority of external members selected by the elected members with clearly defined supervisory and control responsibilities such as the approval of the budget and the operating report, the development strategy, the programmatic agreement with the state, the use of assets, the approval and revision of the operating framework, the internal control procedures and compliance with the Internal Operating Rules.
The Senate is the supreme academic body and includes the Rector, the Vice Rectors, the Deans of the Faculties and the Presidents of Departments.
Students participate in the election of a limited number of their own representatives in the administrative bodies with the right to participate in matters of student care and evaluation of educational work.
The same may be true for administrators.
Academic Reconstruction - Urban Restructuring
The organisation of studies must allow student mobility and communication between disciplines, based on diversity, the release of knowledge dynamics and the new conditions of the professions.
In this context, we propose the redesign of the academic map by rearranging the landscape of faculties, departments and sectors, with guaranteed human and material resources and flexible criteria, according to the characteristics of the universities.
This university "Callicrates" must take into account the following axes: ensuring the integrity of the scientific disciplines and curricula, based on internationally established scientific disciplines, the recognised fields of knowledge and the correspondences resulting from the Single European Area of Education.
Ensuring the possibility for students to move to study programmes within the same or a different School from the one chosen at the initial admission of students.
The Foundation is obliged in its Internal Regulations to define and make public the detailed requirements and procedures for the integration of students into the programmes of study of the Departments, the change of programme of study and the enrolment of students with transfer of credits, after the first academic year.
Also, "multiple pathways" could be defined in the degree, with the adoption of both minor and minor directions.
The structure (basic specialization, directions and flows), the duration, the rules of operation of the undergraduate curriculum, e.g. maximum and minimum limits of the number of students in classrooms or laboratories, etc., and all related issues, should be included in the jurisdiction of the HEIs, which will take care of this in their Internal Operating Regulations.
Centres of Excellence and Research Centres are established and strengthened to upgrade teaching, organise learning and promote research.
- Staff of HEIs -Election of faculty members
For the conditions required for election to a teaching staff position, the required qualifications are defined by law and are uniform for all HEIs.
The cognitive scope of the positions advertised is determined on the basis of the needs for the implementation of the curricula of the Departments and for this purpose a special justification is required from the General Assembly of the Department and the Faculty.
There are three levels of progression for teaching staff, with the introductory level being that of Assistant Professor.
The Lecturer, conducting independent teaching and research, may be a scientific leader in research projects.
The participation of external reviewers is also recommended in the judging procedures. Institutions shall draw up and publish lists of external reviewers by discipline.
Finance
The state funds the operation of the Institutions in accordance with the programme agreements.
The salaries of HEI staff are paid from the Regular Budget and are paid through the Single Payment Authority of the Ministry of Finance.
Faculty members have the obligation to provide teaching, research, scientific and administrative services and enjoy functional independence in the exercise of their duties.
Faculty members as public officials are paid a special salary scale which is determined by the State in proportion to the other categories of public officials.
Within the framework of their budgets, institutions can formulate their own additional incentive policy to meet their specific academic and scientific needs.
Admission system to Higher Education
It is necessary to change the system of admission to higher education in a direction that will contribute to the establishment of the high school as an independent educational level and to ensure the role of universities in determining the number and cognitive criteria for the selection of student candidates.
As far as the entrance examinations are concerned, each curriculum, which may be administratively decided by a School or Department, must have a say in the subject matter to be examined and in the coefficient of each course.
The guarantee of the "minimum grade point average" for a curriculum acts as a protective shield against the degenerative phenomena of "perpetual students" and "students with a hard time".
For the same reason, moreover, all transfers, which are made on the hypocritical basis of "social criteria", should be gradually abolished.
Academic ethics and legitimacy
The continuous and comparative evaluation of academic units is strengthened, with institutions being held accountable to an Independent Authority.
The aim is to ensure transparency in all academic processes (administrative, financial, educational, research) and to achieve the maximum possible autonomy of the University.
In addition, the establishment of the Academic Advocate is proposed as the authority for the settlement of intra-academic disputes.
Finally, there must be substantial provision for the effective security of the university premises and the uninterrupted functioning of academic life.
In summary, the Democratic Left demands: Equal educational opportunities for all citizens
A public university that is self-governing, self-assessed and accountable
Harmonization with European and international practices - a prerequisite for the extroversion of Greek universities
New understanding of the inextricable link between higher education and research
Redesigning the academic map by rearranging the landscape of faculties, departments and fields
- Reform in the field of research
Strengthening the spirit of research is a central choice of our party as a strategic option for the way out of the current crisis.
The explosive production of new knowledge and the development of technologies in many fields creates new opportunities but also raises new, complex social issues that reposition the social sciences and humanities as key actors in understanding contemporary societies and policy-making.
The national strategy as perceived by our political space is codified as "a single space of education and research"
and schematically includes the following triptych:
A universal model of education, which harmoniously synthesizes the transmission of the accumulated knowledge to new generations with the expansion of the horizons of knowledge, through continuous search, questioning, the experimental process and the attractive association.
The horizontal shaping of a single research area that will encourage interaction and synergy between HEIs, Research Centres (RCs) and the social and productive fabric.
In particular, for the higher education system and its research counterpart, the formation of two functionally equivalent and complementary systems, each maintaining its own autonomous characteristics.
More specifically, the Democratic Left has elaborated nine positions on the strengthening of research which remain open to a broader debate:
The overall national research effort involving public research laboratories, laboratories of large companies, as well as those of small and medium-sized enterprises, should be the subject of coordination between the ministries involved under the auspices of a final oversight by the new Ministry of Education, Research and Technology.
A substantial and radical restructuring of the research fabric.
This restructuring in the first phase should target all Research Centres and agencies from all Ministries with the aim of eliminating duplication and coordinating the system.
This can be achieved through the supervision of all research organisations and activities by the GET, with a single legislative - institutional framework.
Another important issue is the restructuring of the fabric of higher education institutions.
This policy aims to achieve economy and efficiency of scale, functional integration, coordination of the country's entire public scientific potential, and to strengthen the competitiveness of research units.
Starting from the principle that the promotion of excellence presupposes the democratic organisation of the internal life of Research Centres and universities, we are in favour of strengthening the autonomy of Research Centres and the decisive participation of the research potential in the management bodies.
The current model of institutional management is characterised by strong elements of centralisation which should give way to more democratic forms of organisation.
Complementing autonomy are external mechanisms for evaluation, performance assessment and accountability to the Greek and European citizen who pays the price.
The research fabric of the GET has a more than twenty-year tradition of external evaluations by international peer review panels.
However, the data of the evaluations have never been used by the state as data for drawing conclusions for the formulation of research policy and the dynamic reallocation of forces in order to respond to the development of the sciences.
We are in favour of systematic external evaluation of HEIs and universities by a single authority in order to maximise national coordination.
Multiplication of channels of interaction between HEIs and universities so that mobility is not limited to a small number of primary professors wishing to become directors of institutes but multiplies collaborative schemes (postgraduate studies, joint research projects, use of infrastructure, etc.), especially at the younger levels.
Legal and salary protection of the researcher of the public research centres supervised by the Ministry of Science and Technology, as a public official.
Establish a register of research infrastructures of public research laboratories and a corresponding register of innovative enterprises.
Encourage cooperation protocols in a way that ensures mutual benefit.
Commitment to a clear national research agenda, including regular calls for open research programmes to broaden knowledge frontiers, targeted research to enhance innovation in the production process, research in the economic, social and human sciences to solve social and economic problems and shape policies.
A gradual increase in Gross National Domestic Expenditure (GNI) on research to gradually move from the current situation (0.57% of GDP) towards the EU average (1.84% of GDP).
This effort concerns both the public and private sectors.
Strengthening the institution of technology parks and encouraging the creation of spinoff companies.
Corrective action is needed in this area to reduce the misuse of public wealth.
The state should foster the innovative spirit by granting facilities to groups of young researchers, for a period of 4-5 years, by allocating cells in technology parks, subsidising personnel costs, tax breaks, facilitating access to infrastructure, etc.
Contribute to strengthening the Single European Area of Education and Research and increase the Community budget for research.
Strengthening the extroversion of the research system and innovation elements in enterprises.
5.4 Ongoing training
A modern and effective continuing training system is necessary for the continuous upgrading of the knowledge and skills of workers in connection with the prospect of the country's productive upgrading.
Ongoing training should support the necessary job mobility of existing workers, the upgrading of qualifications within the same sector and the linking of new entrants to production processes.
This implies major changes in the design of training actions to meet real training needs.
The delays in the certification of trainers and training programmes must be eliminated immediately.
The monitoring and evaluation of actions and their results must be continuous, in order to reverse the current situation of resource use with a logic of absorption, incomplete planning and problematic implementation.
6. AOE QUALITY WITH ASALAYA, DAILY, EVERYDAY, EVERYDAY
The aim is to address the new challenges arising as a result of the crisis and to develop new types of interventions in the fields of culture, sport and security in everyday life.
6.1 Culture
Culture is the country's greatest symbolic asset and can make an important contribution to social cohesion, regional regeneration and development.
Culture is a public good to which all citizens should have access.
The Democratic Left seeks dialogue and cooperation with all those who can participate, each in his/her own way, in the effort for the cultural renaissance of our country: teachers and professors, people of letters and arts, bloggers, associations and organized bodies.
In the current context, priority is given to issues such as:
Culture in an era of globalisation:
The question is often raised: defence of "national identity" or cosmopolitanism?
The experiences of new cultural networks from the international and European arena show that the question is not only wrong but also outdated.
Greece, firmly oriented towards the common European cultural identity, is an organic part of the new cultural map, which combines the local with the global, with emphasis on "constitutional patriotism" but also on transnational and transnational cultural exchanges.
The reform of the public-private relationship
Culture cannot be reduced to the production of works intended exclusively for the market, because this rejects the specificity of the public character of cultural goods.
The logic of the market, in itself, does not foster creation, it simply enshrines the products that are approved by the majority, products adapted, usually, to commercial criteria and therefore, most of the time, homogeneous and undifferentiated.
It must therefore also be supported by state aid to ensure the promotion of cultural diversity, linguistic pluralism and media pluralism.
But the dominance of the corporatist and populist concept that reduces artistic creation to the claim of state protection alone cannot feed cultural development.
This is why we need to promote a model that combines state support with private initiative and healthy entrepreneurship.
In order to protect themselves from market pressures, cultural businesses need different rules from those applied to other industrial sectors.
Thus many official EU reports argue that, due to the specific nature of cultural businesses, certain cultural and audiovisual sub-sectors should not be liberalised (the so-called 'cultural exception'), precisely because they are public goods.
 The reform of cultural policy institutions and cultural organisations
However, as far as state policy on culture is concerned, its credibility is undermined by the lack of infrastructure, the lack of transparency of institutions, the mismanagement of funds, the waste of public money and the clientelism that governs the allocation of expenditure.
The meagre funding of the relevant bodies and the treatment of them as yet another field for the exercise of clientelism has resulted in the endangerment of our ancient and modern heritage.
For these reasons, a plan to modernise the institutions of cultural policy is necessary today, based on competitiveness and high quality.
In the same direction, the current outdated institutional framework must be redefined, at the level of thematic cultural policies (Cinema, Theatre, Book, Visual Arts, Music, etc.), in line with the new data and trends that are developing in other European -and not only- countries.
 The development of a concrete framework for the allocation and efficiency of public resources allocated
The formulation of a specific framework for the allocation and efficiency of the public resources allocated, in order to achieve a regime of full transparency and at the same time the liberalisation of artistic creation.
The Democratic Left favours a policy of strengthening the structures that favour creation.
It seeks to systematically monitor the functioning of the existing institutions and to evaluate them in a fruitful and meaningful way.
It favours strengthening primary creativity, especially that of young people, by providing not only financial resources but also collective spaces through which their work can be presented and discussed.
It advocates the dissemination of cultural goods throughout society, through the institutions of local government and local associations, which should be encouraged and expanded.
Important in this direction is the systematic development of the Regional and Local Government Networks in the field of Culture.
The promotion and stimulation of the "culture economy
The promotion and stimulation of the "economy of culture", on the basis of an organised "national plan" for development and exit from the crisis.
Strengthening the 'culture economy' is also part of the modern European 'cultural agenda', precisely because cultural enterprises in the film, audiovisual, publishing, arts and crafts or music sectors contribute to job creation.
Of particular interest is the sector of cultural tourism, which can be an international pole of attraction and promotion of both ancient heritage and modern artistic creation.
In the direction of a social and solidarity-based 'culture economy', a number of interventions in the cultural sector are needed at local and regional level.
The cultural image of the city, for example, can be a comparative advantage for the revitalisation of the "local" concept of culture (regeneration of areas, promotion of local products, emphasis on the cultural geography of each region).
At this level, what is needed is a different "policy mix" between local government in the private sector, market forces, voluntary organisations and "civil society".
The Democratic Left supports the need for a framework for the creation of new partnerships between parties that will lead to the use and exploitation of cultural assets, with an emphasis on the development of social capital and the strengthening of an outward-looking local identity.
It is precisely for this reason that regional cultural policy and the convergence of the regions must be strengthened by drawing up joint Operational Plans that make the most of the cultural resources available to them.
The priority on "a culture of everyday life and solidarity" combined with the fight against ghettoisation and racism
Culture is not limited exclusively to the creation of works of art and their contact with the public, but concerns the everyday experience itself.
In recent years, however, we have witnessed a rapid mutation of cultural and social values.
Conservative attitudes and extremely competitive behaviours prevail, individualistic norms are produced and disseminated, downgrading the notions of collectivity, solidarity and responsibility.
At the same time, as Greek society is changing due to the intense migratory flow, we observe the emergence of suspicion and hatred against the "other", the foreigner, the culturally different.
Modern nationalism and racism is not just a historical episode or a survival of old forms of power, but a global phenomenon with deep roots, which is constantly evolving and has primarily cultural characteristics.
The new inferior 'races' in modern societies are the 'others' - immigrants, vulnerable social groups, socially excluded - who are stigmatised and marginalised.
The Democratic Left believes that these groups can make a decisive contribution to the cultural development of a country.
It is essential for culture to act as a bridge to broaden tolerance of difference and the creative mix of cultural actions.
For this reason, it is proposed to strengthen actions for the "culture of everyday life and solidarity", with a firm front against nationalism and neo-racism.
Protection of cultural heritage - promotion of contemporary culture
The declarations and thefts at the Museum of the History of the Olympic Games in Ancient Olympia and the National Gallery highlight the urgent issue of the effective protection of cultural sites and our cultural heritage.
However, cultural heritage is not only the museum's perception and promotion of the past.
It is the use of cultural heritage in modern ways that do not ignore digital technologies and the various "uses of the past".
It is precisely for this reason that there is a need for a comprehensive, long-term and, as far as possible, binding cultural policy plan that can be served by the operation of the National Council for Culture, an institution that will achieve the coupling of transparent public administration, cultural heritage management and the promotion of contemporary culture.
Single European Cultural Forum.
The Democratic Left proposes to further connect the cultural sector in Europe within the framework of a Single European Cultural Area.
Such an institution will help to develop a sense of belonging, to strengthen culture as part of international relations and as a catalyst for the creativity of European citizens.
The cultural diversity of these activities will highlight national and regional diversity and at the same time common cultural heritage.
6.2 Sport
The sporting edifice wherever and however it is expressed (professional sport, organised amateur sport, forms of school-free sport) has long since closed its historical cycle.
The concept of sporting activity, and therefore its benefits to society as a whole, shows strong elements of degeneration, resulting in it being dominated by parasitic phenomena (uncontrolled or directed violence, corruption, money laundering, illegal enrichment, partisanship, nepotism, etc.).
The party-state basically tolerates and most of the time supports this whole structure, finances it, uses it and extends the interlocking in its cells and its functioning.
Sport, with its model of state-sponsored sport - championship, is now discredited.
What is required today is a shift towards amateur and mass sports, compliance with the legislation on professional sports, stricter controls and preventive measures against doping, combating violence in stadiums and transparency - legality where the State is involved, including in funding.
Specifically: In professional sport we support : No state funding (direct or indirect)
Strict enforcement of existing commercial legislation on PPAs/cae
strict enforcement of existing legislation on violence and "organised fans
Costs of maintaining order exclusively by the FAs/CAAs and not by the State
Enforcement of state laws which are above the various "self-governing" dispositions of federations which are otherwise funded by the state and use its sports facilities
In amateur sport we support :
Mandatory application of simple proportional representation in federation elections so that more than one party can participate.
This will address the deficit of public scrutiny and the exclusion of opposition views.
To strictly apply the provisions of the Law 3861/2010 on transparency.
A change in the mindset of the sports players and the renewal of the leadership of the federations is a critical need and an absolute priority.
That is, to establish a limit of 2 four-year terms for the President and the Secretary General and the Funds.
It is finally necessary to finally make the cleansing of sports clubs from the clubs "seals" and the various academies and municipal organizations that are not sports clubs and usually vote with party directions.
6.3 Athens city centre: re-urbanisation/coexistence/security
The problems of the city centre are complex and need to be addressed in an integrated way, as indicated by a number of European spatial policies, and not in a piecemeal way, as is common in Greece.
The survival of the city is synonymous with its economy and the coherence of its social fabric.
International experience shows this: the redevelopment of an urban area passes primarily through the improvement of socio-economic conditions and secondarily through aesthetic or green interventions.
The development of Athens, in order for it to be able to function as the capital of the country, is directly linked to the establishment of an economic, but also social and urban planning, in which the architectural and cultural upgrading of the city has an active role to play.
Required : Integrated policies for the revitalization of Town Centres can be promoted through the existing institutional framework and with the systematic cooperation of all three levels of decision making: the Executive Public Administration, the Decentralized Region, the Municipal Administration.
A comprehensive action plan to attract residents and businesses (providing social infrastructure and security respectively) to the centre.
New planning with the principle of the "compact city" and the limitation of extensions.
The concentration of excluded groups in the city centre (such as homeless people, addicts) is a consequence of abandonment, not the cause of it.
A new business-social contract between the institutions and the business world, with good consultation and the will of all partners can contribute to overcoming the crisis.
Completion of the institutional framework for the rehabilitation and utilization of abandoned buildings that degrade Town Centres.
Promotion of the capital's physiognomy by highlighting its multi-dimensional history, natural wealth, modern life, cultural production, museums and archaeological sites.
6.4. Migration as a problem of social solidarity and security
The migration issue is not suitable either for emotional approaches or for exercises in election rhetoric.
In conditions of deep economic crisis, the consequences of inadequate management of migratory flows are taking on uncontrollable proportions.
Anyone who, in the name of humanitarianism, denies the need for specific measures is turning a blind eye to the problem and not answering real questions that call for realistic solutions.
But at the same time, anyone who unambiguously identifies the problems of security, public health and quality of life with immigrants is ceding public security to the far right and gangs.
On the migration issue, we do not know how many and who we are talking about: undocumented and documented migrants, refugees or asylum seekers, victims of trafficking.
The state has never registered them so that it is known who is entitled to what, while the mainstream political and journalistic discourse collectively labels them "illegal immigrants".
Those who vote on the immigration issue are suppressing two truths.
First, thousands of immigrants are now living legally in the country, fully integrated into Greek society.
The integration of migrants, with an emphasis on second generation migrants, requires the design and implementation of policies that take into account a wide range of factors, such as the economic and social aspects of integration, but also issues related to historical, cultural and religious diversity, citizenship, political rights and the participation of migrants in society.
Secondly, a large proportion of undocumented migrants are legally or de facto undocumented.
As long as "non-deportation" lasts, they will be here regardless of our (or their) wishes.
So, only solutions that are viable for them are real security policies for all.
At the same time, the administration is leaving thousands of people who live and work here, have livelihood ties and can only be integrated through the law.
At the same time, the state must keep the return route open, without forced repatriation being a panacea if it is not complemented by voluntary repatriation, and in fact as a priority.
Migration is inextricably linked to the rise of organised racist violence which goes unpunished,
although in the Greek legal system everyone - and not only Greeks - is entitled to judicial protection.
The state must address organised racist violence as a top-priority threat to public safety.
Their large number, especially in the centre of Athens, with the spatial overload, with the explosion of illegal trade, drug trafficking, trafficking in women, has led to a serious deterioration of the life of the residents, resulting in friction, tension and conflicts on both sides.
This situation must change.
The responsibilities of the governments of ND and PASOK, which for so many years have allowed the problem to grow out of control, are enormous.
Our general policy on migration is divided into two levels. The immediate level: Registration and identification of irregular migrants, who, although integrated into the social fabric, are legally invisible. Registering them is a necessary measure to deal with them through policies appropriate to the characteristics of each category. In order to register them, it is proposed to immediately issue a Decree for the postponement of their removal on the basis of Art. 24 and 37 of Law 3907/2011.
Legislative provisions for the review and granting of residence permits (ensuring the maintenance of the legality of residence) to those who have fallen out of legality due to the economic situation or did not meet the requirements at the time of legalisation in 2005 but have proven to maintain living ties with the country.
Strengthening of the naturalization and acquisition of Greek citizenship under the Law on the naturalization of Greek citizens. 3838/2010.
Possibility of an individualised examination of affiliation and granting of a residence permit for humanitarian reasons under Art. 21 par. 4 Ν. 3907/2011.
Implementing a fair system of recognition of political asylum in line with international law, ensuring access to asylum procedures, swift processing of pending applications and, above all, infrastructure for the timely and accurate examination of applications.
Implementation of the possibility of voluntary departure to the country of citizenship (articles 20-22, Law 3907/11). Currently, thousands of applications for repatriation from Greece are pending with the International Organization for Migration, which remain unfulfilled due to the failure to cover the national contribution to the costs. Activation of the possibility of reducing the national contribution from 25% to 5% by invoking the budgetary situation.
Utilisation of funds from the EU's External Borders and Return Funds.  Establish real reception centres, not detention centres, at the borders to register and identify those entering. Activation of the inapplicable legal framework on Special Places of Residence for Foreigners (Article 81 of Law 3386/2005), First Reception Centres (Law 3907/2011). Clear opposition to the creation of Detention Centres. Besides, our country has been repeatedly condemned for the inhuman and degrading conditions in the already operating Detention Centres and has paid high compensation.
Creation of open accommodation facilities for vulnerable groups, such as asylum seekers, victims of trafficking, victims of torture, elderly people, etc.Creation of open accommodation and education facilities especially for minors, whose detention is prohibited.
Implement legislation on victims of trafficking (recognition of victim status, legal and social protection).
Deportation/removal, where foreseen and feasible, should be carried out promptly, in conditions and with procedures that do not offend human dignity.
Dealing with racist violence requires prevention policies, the creation of a unified system for recording racist crimes, a special police structure, the establishment of specific guidelines for police investigation of racist crime, accountability and the fight against impunity for anyone, uniformed or not, who is investigated for involvement in such incidents. Possibility of deferred deportation for irregular migrant victims of violent crimes, particularly those committed with a racist motive.
The Greek government must: Push for a revision of the 2003 Dublin II Treaty, which traps economic migrants whose final destination is Central and Western Europe, in countries of first entry.
To become substantially active in the formulation of a European migration policy with emphasis on bilateral agreements with third countries, EU involvement in border management and in the procedures of readmission, upgrading the Greek-Turkish readmission pact to a Euro-Turkish one, interventions that will allow the residents of third countries to stay in their place and, above all, equal sharing of the migratory burden.
Strengthen border management with more substantial and permanent EU assistance.
6.5 Economic crisis and crime The economic crisis the country is experiencing creates a threat of expanding crime , which must be addressed.
The first threat is the speculation of the circuits, the "Business Mafia", which transforms illegal action into business and business cannot avoid illegal action.
Crossing the "grey zone" of economic activities, some entrepreneurs create a real "crime market", a political economy of crisis.
Intertwined with economic crime is corruption in the public sector, the diversion of productive resources for repression and the circulation of dirty money.
This threat must be met with the active intervention and determination of the political system to create a climate of clearing out the systems of illegality, extortion and control of parts of the public sphere.
The citizen must be freed in the public sphere from coercion and illegal action by the powerful through social and community institutions (Local Prevention Councils, Prevention Centres -KEDEA/OKANA- voluntary work).
The second threat is the generalisation of lawlessness as a way of life due to the lower economic status of the vast majority of the population.
As the circumstances of life change, the pattern according to which needs were regulated cannot remain the same.
The previous scale is overturned but a new scale cannot be designed immediately.
The boundaries between the possible and the impossible, between what is just and what is unjust are now fluid.
At this point, the intervention of the constituted society is necessary by setting stable, democratically legitimised rules.
The third threat is the desperation of the unemployed and those affected in general.
Unemployment and the economic crisis in general is driving some people to crime.
Long-term unemployment results in a change in the individual's perceptions and relations with society (with the possible side effect of antisocial behaviour or even crime).
To remove the sense of "negative destiny" from the suffering, we must not allow society to be driven into a fractious polarization of rich/poor (who live in different worlds in the same city).
Legal certainty and the (poor) citizen's justified trust in the State constitute the basis of social protection and the non-breaking of social cohesion in times of economic crisis.
Income redistribution and appropriate measures in favour of the poorest strata are inextricably linked to effective social justice and the rule of law.
This may be the best way of socially managing the economic crisis before it becomes criminal.
Social policy must always come before anti-crime policy.
6.6 Drugs
Drugs and drug addictions in general (not forgetting of course the also corrosive role of alcohol and tobacco) have become a structural element of modern (at least Western) culture, but also a "cross" of political governance.
It is a global cultural phenomenon which will be further enhanced by globalisation.
In fact, the international establishment, if not supports, at least covers up for the states, the leaders, the politicians, the economic agents involved in drugs.
International organisations are content to verbally exorcise the phenomenon and set up diverse bodies to deal with its harmful consequences.
repression - in all its forms and versions (which often take on a humanitarian character!) - not only does nothing to improve the individual problem, but also worsens the conditions of black market, criminality and the escalation/expansion of the social phenomenon in general.
Therefore, the pedagogy of prevention and social solidarity is paramount.
Greek society, but also the competent bodies, are moving anarchically between prevention and repression, self-organization and institutional functions, the management of wounds and the closure of sources.
The crucial question for Greece is who will take responsibility for the prevention and management of the problem (at a social and personal level).
The headquarters body must be specially staffed and have broad responsibilities, while at the same time the various (as many as possible) implementing partners must revolve around it in a coordinated manner.
Also one should be the regional coordinator and one should be the local base unit (and it cannot be other than the Local Prevention Councils).
Until these are structured (and at the same time the various "one-way streets" are dismantled), the work has to be done on the street (many street workers, many mobile units, many emergency centres - even home help - many support networks).
we call for the upgrading, not the shrinking, of public free treatment facilities, which affects a very vulnerable young population and their families.  We support the pluralisation of treatment methods and the strengthening of reintegration programmes for addicts.
There is an urgent need to rationalise criminal legislation on drugs, to crack down as much as possible on drug trafficking, to rationalise and humanise the provisions concerning users.
There must be public health intervention so that the addicted person can be taken to an appropriate NHS treatment facility and treated there.
This will reduce drug trafficking and save the lives of users.
7. OPEN POINTS FOR YOUTH
7.1 General
The multifaceted Greek crisis is an opportunity for change. For a redistribution of resources. For rethinking structures.
For comparison with the global environment.
An opportunity that, if exploited, will release enormous creative forces of the country and of the people.
The Greek youth must demand it.
It cannot and must not participate in these cataclysmic changes by reproducing clichés and certainties of the past.
The Greek youth is economically, institutionally, politically and socially wronged by the course of developments in the country and the environment that is taking shape.
What started as a youth uprising some 40 years ago has become a consolidated age, political, social establishment. This must change.
It is the new generation that will bear the burden of the economic crisis. The demand for a fair distribution of the burden of the crisis has an intergenerational dimension in addition to the class dimension.
The fact that the young generation does not have a strong voice in the political, party and economic system leads to choices that are often unfair.
Countries that are progressing, apart from being based on a different demographic profile, are making room for young people.
They do not do so out of political correctness but knowing the beneficial effects in all areas of this strategic choice.A new intergenerational agreement is necessary.
Not as a compromise but as a solidarity between generations.
The demographic profile of the country shows that if there are no changes in labour, in the economy, in technology, in the political system, in production, in consumption, in the social security system - they will all collapse together.
Collapse independent of the temporal crisis.
The characteristics of this new intergenerational agreement must be structured around key pillars.  Education system: First of all, the orientation of education and the education system towards research and innovation is a matter of urgency.
The new generation must find its role in the global division of labour if it is to have a future.
The education system must serve a dual purpose. On the one hand, it should impart the knowledge of societies, the universal values of humanism in order to form citizens with a critical and participatory attitude, and on the other hand - because we are in the midst of an economic crisis - it should provide an outlet for the professional search of citizens.
It must provide them with knowledge, skills, competences, qualifications and skills so that they can be harmoniously integrated into the productive process and serve the needs of the country's productive reconstruction.
Youth entrepreneurship, innovation, production.
A shift to internationally tradable sectors and products that will have a preferred value, pay good wages and provide satisfactory profits.
Changing the mindset of years, getting rid of the dream of a public sector job, disengaging from pressure for degrees that lead to closed professions.
A change in the consumption pattern.
Growth through production and not exclusively through consumption. The new generation can do it.
Maybe because it understands that consumption has limits.
Material, environmental and economic limits.
Changing the consumption pattern does not mean poverty and austerity, but adapting to reality and trying to improve.
Mobility, not stagnation.
The new generation is the most educated generation in Greece.
It has performances from Europe and the world.
He was born in the EU, grew up with it, travelled with it, has representations of its Universities, of its business structures, is connected online with every single activity, idea, thought, experimentation all over the world.
Part of this experience to pass it on to Greece, to use it.
To become a new vanguard of production, of society, of political developments.
Youth has an important role to play today - not after thirty years.
To break the yearbooks in the political system, the public administration, the business sector.
To break the bureaucracy, to pioneer Greece's transition to the new era.
To fight for social goods, for the respect of public space, for a rational distribution of resources, for a fair distribution of burdens.
To connect with the place and its destiny. The new generation has a global and European outlook but also a deep love for the country.We do not want the Greek youth to turn into the workforce of other countries. The wealth of the country is these young people. Only if the new generation succeeds, Greece and the older ones have a future. Only if the new generation enters production, brings innovations and radical changes there is hope of saving the social model.
We in the Democratic Left do not wish to approach youth issues in terms of authority, in terms of classical, partisan, obsolete terms. We are committed to contribute creatively to this new intergenerational agreement that the country needs, to contribute with our strengths to the necessary changes that need to be made.
We have a plan, we have proposals. Proposals that are targeted, far from the absolute truth, and even further from being the best plan to serve the needs of young people.
Proposals that form a framework for change or possibly point in a direction.
How, with whom and what exactly will be done is a matter for the young people.
It would be a paradox, after all, to be asked to change everything according to our plan.
7.2 Interventions
Military service Gradual reduction of military service.
Strengthening forms of alternative service.
Improving the living conditions of conscripts
Young parents
Addictions, drugs Free public rehabilitation centres.
Treating the user as a patient.
Strengthening the reintegration programmes for drug-dependent people.
Continuous information in schools, institutions and the military on the dangers of addictive substances.
Raising awareness and alerting society.
Youth offending and interventions in the legal and penal system.
Emphasis on reintegration efforts rather than punitive nature.
The goal of reducing youth delinquency goes through more opportunities for young people, ensuring means to achieve their goals, supporting the family institution, supporting public schools, integrating minority groups into social and economic life, reducing unemployment.
Participation of young people in public life. A series of active policies, institutionalisation and development of structures can enhance young people's willingness to participate in public life.
Processes of information, participation in councils, dialogue between young people and decision-makers, both at European and national level, can reverse the decline in youth participation.
Oppression of sexual diversity Exclusions, taboos, social isolation on issues of sexual diversity are the image of a conservative and outdated Greece. Young people are called upon to break these shackles and live freely in an open society.
Sport Strengthening mass sport, school sport, sport in the neighbourhoods, amateur clubs.
Culture Opportunities for cultural expression of youth through existing structures.
Youth interventions in the urban landscape in cooperation with local authorities.
Networks of cultural associations.
Volunteerism The youth in front, with new views, active in the voluntary movement, reverses the entrenched image of sterile individualism and intervenes positively in social life by protecting collective goods, taking care of issues that the State ignores, putting its own colour in everyday life.
8. GREECE A EUROPEAN POWER IN THE WORLD
8.1 Greek foreign policy
The objectives of foreign policy should be to restore the country's prestige and consolidate its wider role as an EU member state in the region.
At the same time, the unfair attacks on the country's image must be addressed and its prestige in international relations must be regained.
The achievement of these objectives, which has economic and political dimensions, is directly linked to the mobilization of all the forces of Greece and of the Greek expatriate population in order to achieve maximum strength in an exit strategy from the crisis.
8.1.1 Orientations : European orientation, the struggle for a new Europe, exploiting geographical position on the international stage.
The balance of power in the world is changing and new powers are emerging (China, India, Russia, Brazil, South Africa).
In our neighbourhood, Turkey is becoming stronger as a regional power and the Arab world is in transition.
Our country is in the greatest crisis in the post-war era.
These changes necessitate a broad, transparent and continuous dialogue on issues of Greek foreign policy planning and require the operation of the National Foreign Policy Council.
With the generalised volatility and the unclear landscape of the present and future of the European Union, any redefinition of Greek foreign policy that would raise concerns about the country's European orientation is a mistake.
The European Union, despite the deep crisis and the conservative folding, continues to be the cornerstone on which Greek foreign policy must be based.
Remaining in the European framework and in the single currency is not just an economic issue for our country.
It has to do with its place in the world and the relationships it forms from that basis with the rest of the world.
It is the springboard on which Greece must build in order to develop its regional and international role, as a country that is European, Balkan and Mediterranean at the same time.
Otherwise, Greece risks being marginalised and weak in dealing with problems with neighbouring countries.
We believe that the geopolitical logic based on the prospect of the drachma is wrong and dangerous.
Apart from the economic consequences, Greece under the drachma will immediately find itself in a deepening geopolitical turmoil.
To be deprived of the opportunities given to it as a member of the Eurozone and the EU in the international arena on issues such as the name of FYROM, the unification of Cyprus as a bizonal bicommunal federation and, in general, the management of problems with neighbouring Turkey.
That is why, even from a geopolitical point of view, as long as the crisis lasts and until the balance and policies in the EU change, the interests of the country and of each individual, requires as a priority the effort to remain within the European framework.
The main axis of the country's foreign policy should be to support the processes that form a common European foreign policy as a factor for peaceful resolution of disputes and common development.
In this context, we need to develop common strategic economic interests with our European partners both in Greece and in the wider region.
8.1.2 Link to the struggle for a new character and role for Europe in international relations / New treaty and political integration
The basic axis of the country's foreign policy is not equivalent to accepting the character of the EU through the recent development of the Financial Union.
The European Union's response is conservative and ineffective The harsh conservative policies pursued by the German-French axis are turning the Union into a factor in the aggravation of the international crisis.
The eurozone is at the centre of the crisis, firstly because its member countries, starting with Greece, found themselves over-indebted as a result of uneven growth within the eurozone and secondly because it lacked the structures and the political will for major solutions that would address the crisis as a whole.
European unification today is taking place, almost exclusively, under the suffocating hegemony of the Franco-German axis, with the -necessary, otherwise- fiscal coordination, while the "golden rule" of a balanced budget has been institutionally established, ignoring the parameters of development and democracy in decision-making at the level of the European Union.
The crisis has highlighted the need for policies at EU level that will influence economic developments in the light of development and social priorities, close the growth gap between North and South and bring about convergence in European living standards.
Also in other areas such as security, foreign policy, energy, migration and the environment, the need to upgrade the quality of common policies and to have a decisive impact on events is becoming clear.
In order to promote such policies, coordination of economic policies is necessary first and foremost.
But in order for economic coordination and the formulation of common policies in general not to be an imposition of a super-directorate - under the guidance of the German-French axis - an EU politically unified in a move towards federalisation is needed.
Political integration should ensure the equal relationship between the partners, the integration of the democratic processes of the Union and the state level, parliamentary control over the decisions of the European institutions and the decisive role of the European Parliament.
The heart of this Europe will beat democratically and in solidarity, not in German.
In this Europe, European Germany will have the special weight resulting from its population and economic strength within the framework of European co-development.
In this united Europe, the consciousness of European belonging will be created, new forms of supranational democracy will operate and the hegemonic state roles will have been replaced by the federal constitution.
This is the only democratic solution and this is the only way to counter the serious risk of destabilising Europe.
The Democratic Left is fighting for the reversal of conservative policies and the promotion of a reverse process towards the democratic deepening of Europe in the political, economic and social sense.
It supports the creation of Europe-wide coalitions and networks on specific issues such as labour protection and tackling unemployment.
It seeks to bring together actors of the European democratic left, political ecology and left social democracy in order to formulate a new pact for growth, employment, the upgrading of collective goods and social protection.
It envisions an EU that is socially strong, a champion of sustainable development and enhanced common goods, an agent of peace and balanced development in the world.
8.1.3 Exploiting Greece's potential as a European, Mediterranean and Balkan country in a critical geographical location
In the new international situation, Greece, with Europe as its base and starting point, must pursue a multidimensional foreign policy.
It must explore and exploit the possibilities of cooperation at all levels with the large, growing economies of Russia, China, India, Brazil, etc,
but also with countries that offer us strategic and deep cooperation, such as Israel, ensuring greater freedom and manoeuvrability in our foreign policy to the benefit of our national interests.
The revitalization of cooperation in the energy sector, in trade, in the broader economic sector, with these countries should be a strategic demand of Greek foreign policy that should be put at the centre of attention.
Our country in supranational organisations must stand by those who fight for the defence of international legitimacy and oppose interventions and wars.
It must defend the demand of the poor countries of the so-called 'third world' for substantial aid from international organisations to address the issue of chaotic inequalities that condemn entire populations to poverty and disease.
To provide, despite the crisis, as it has committed itself, together with the other developed countries, 0.7% of its GDP in aid to these countries.
Peaceful resolution of disputes with neighbouring countries
We support initiatives with the active participation of the European Union to establish a system of inter-regional cooperation embracing all the countries of NA Europe, Turkey and the Arab countries.
Interregional cooperation, as an intermediate step towards the final and full accession of the Balkan countries and Turkey to the European Union and increased cooperation with the Arab countries and Israel, can strengthen the conditions for consolidating stability, democracy and economic growth and prosperity in the region.
Always guided by the basic principles of international law, respect for human rights, cooperation and peace.
EU membership of other countries
The Democratic Left considers the European perspective of the state entities of South-Eastern Europe as the optimal development for stability and peace in the region
and advocates helping these countries to meet their request to open negotiations and join the EU as soon as possible,
to enable a broad and open political, economic and cultural cooperation between all Balkan countries.
Turkey
Greece has every interest, in relation to the Greek-Turkish disputes, to remain firmly anchored within the European framework because outside of it it will be an extremely weakened entity against a powerful neighbour.
At the same time, it has every interest in supporting Turkey's European course, because this is the safest route to recession and stability in Greek-Turkish relations.
The necessary conditions, however, are respect for the European acquis and the fulfilment of the Copenhagen criteria of Democracy and the Rule of Law, Free Market, Human Rights and Protection of Minorities.
Under no circumstances can Turkey continue to refuse to recognise an EU member state,
persistently refusing to implement its obligations under the Ankara Protocol, which it signed.
The Democratic Left supports Turkey's European course and EU membership under these conditions.
It opposes conservative "geo-political" and "geo-cultural" logics that want Turkey out of the European project.
It supports the consolidation of its European orientation and looks forward to the prospect of EU membership.
However, the European course of the neighbouring country is primarily an internal affair of strategic choice and priorities of Turkey itself,
which must respect the European acquis and meet its obligations towards the EU.
Greece does not want new tensions and a new arms race between the two countries.
The problems in Greek-Turkish relations can and must be resolved through dialogue on the basis of international law.
Greece's constant goal must be the full normalization of bilateral Greek-Turkish relations,
which could showcase our two countries as the main lever for promoting peaceful and fruitful regional cooperation in the wider region of South East Europe and the Eastern Mediterranean.
Bilateral problems can and must be resolved through dialogue on the basis of international law.
It is up to Turkey to lift the unacceptable casus belli, to agree to refer the issue of the delimitation of the continental shelf, from Evros to Kastellorizo, to the International Court of Justice in The Hague or to the most competent International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea and to abandon irrational claims such as those on "grey zones".
A precondition for the full normalization of Greek-Turkish relations is of course the end of the illegal Turkish occupation in Cyprus.
and the finding of a comprehensive and mutually acceptable solution to the Cyprus problem, within the framework of the decisions of international organisations.
The normalization of Greek-Turkish relations will free Greek foreign policy from the forced rivalry with Turkey and will highlight the two countries as the main levers for promoting peaceful and fruitful regional cooperation in the Balkans and the Mediterranean.
This direction does not contradict the need for our country to proceed with the definition of the Greek Independent Economic Zone on the basis of the international law of the sea,
to start exploration for hydrocarbons in order to exploit the country's energy wealth.
Muslim Minority in Draki
The Democratic Left believes that the universal protection of minority rights is imperative for reasons of respect for human dignity, respect for international treaties signed by our country, but also because it is a necessary condition for social cohesion, security and prosperity in Draki".
The priorities of the Greek state should be: The upgrading of the educational system, so that equal opportunities of access to every level of education are provided for all (establishment of new school units, both public and minority education, where necessary, modernization and upgrading of existing ones, effective operation of intercultural schools)
The abolition of the judicial powers of the Muftis and the application of Sharia in disputes of family and inheritance law of Muslims and the submission of all such disputes to the Greek ordinary courts with the application of the Civil Code, as for all other Greek citizens and consequently the restriction of the Mufti in his religious duties and his appointment by the minority itself.
The re-granting of Greek citizenship to those minority citizens who were deprived of it on the basis of Article 19 of the Code of Citizenship and live permanently in the region as stateless persons.
The possibility for minority citizens to exercise all rights under modern international conventions, including the right to ethnic self-determination, in accordance with OSCE principles.
The unimpeded exercise by minority citizens of the right to establish associations under the name they wish in the context of the implementation of the right of self-determination.
The election of the management committees of the wakufs.
The immediate implementation of the quota (5%) provided for by Law 3647/2008 (article 23), for recruitment to the Public Sector through the Public Employment Service in the region of Draki.
The regulation of the property regime in the mountainous area of Draki.
Similarly, the Democratic Left believes that Greece should demand that Turkey fulfill its obligations regarding the respect of minority rights and religious freedom.
The Cyprus issue
The Democratic Left firmly supports a just, functional and viable solution to the Cyprus problem, which ends the occupation and cancels dichotomous achievements, and ensures the reunification of the country and its people, Greek and Turkish Cypriots,
as well as the right of all refugees to return.
Such a solution can only be secured within the agreed framework of a bicommunal, bizonal federation with political equality, as outlined by the relevant UN resolutions.
A solution in accordance with international and European law, based on the 1977 and 1979 High Level Agreements
and provide for the transformation of the Republic of Cyprus from a unitary to a federal state, with one sovereignty, one nationality, one international personality.
Greece must promote a security solution for all Cypriots, Greek Cypriots and Turkish Cypriots: without occupying troops, outdated guarantee systems and unilateral third party intervention rights, which are alien to the way the EU operates.
Support measures for the economic support of Turkish Cypriots, if they contribute to the reunification of the two communities and the reunification of the island.
The goal should be the resolution of the Cyprus problem, which would immediately solve the whole issue of "isolation".
The effective participation of a reunited Cyprus in the EU is the best possible guarantee for the security and prosperity of all Cypriots.
The UN Security Council resolutions and Cyprus's status as an EU member state define the framework for a mutually acceptable solution to the problem,
which should ensure the effective participation of the Cypriot state in UN decision-making and the implementation of the acquis communautaire throughout the territory of Cyprus, in accordance with the procedures laid down in the Act of Accession of Cyprus to the EU (2004).
The Democratic Left supports the strenuous negotiating effort of the Cypriot government for a mutually acceptable solution in this framework and its continuation, if necessary, after Cyprus assumes the EU Presidency on July 1.
Unfortunately, the attitude of the Turkish Cypriot leadership in the negotiations to date has often been disappointing,
while Turkey itself does not encourage moderation among Turkish Cypriots.
Furthermore, it aggravates the climate of the negotiations with threats against Cyprus' sovereign rights over its Exclusive Economic Zone.
The exercise of these rights is not a matter for bi-communal negotiations, but the exclusive competence of the legitimate government of Cyprus.
The Democratic Left believes that the international community must send a clear message to Turkey to comply with international law
and respect the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea, as the European Union has already done, most recently in the Council Conclusions of 9 December 2011.
Coordination and cooperation between Greece and Cyprus is a decisive factor in the developments in the Cyprus problem and in the wider region.
Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia
The problem of the final name of FYROM remains open.
The government of the neighbour has not only not moved at all from its intransigent position, but, encouraged by the Hague Court's decision, it is also proceeding with further provocations.
. The Democratic Left supports the common position of the parties in the House of Representatives for a commonly accepted name, with a geographical (or temporal) designation, against all.
We point out that our northern neighbour must stop feeding irredentism towards Greek Macedonia and understand the necessity of cooperation and understanding.
Greece should make the best use of its veto right on FYROM's membership in international organisations, especially the EU and NATO, in order to put even more pressure on the neighbouring country to adopt a mutually acceptable solution.
Israel and the Arab world
Greece, a member of the EU, participates in international organisations and regional cooperation and promotes relations in South-East Europe and the Mediterranean, with the Arab world and other countries.
The country's position in a region where there are chronic problems and old and modern international conflicts find their expression, gives particular importance to its foreign policy and the choices made in this field.
The Democratic Left welcomed the popular uprisings against the authoritarian and illiberal regimes of Tunisia, Egypt, Syria, but also Bahrain and Yemen.
The expression of support for the forces moving against the dictatorial regime of Gaddafi was equally unequivocal.
In the same light of the search for a peaceful solution and a transition to democratic normality and stability, the Democratic Left also faces the protracted crisis in Syria,
where the international community's pressure on the Assad regime must be intensified in order to stop the bloodshed.
The Democratic Left expresses its solidarity with all peoples challenging authoritarian-dictatorial regimes and the demand for freedom and democracy that is spreading to almost all the countries of the Arab world and supports solutions for a peaceful transition to democratic normality.
Justice and peace in the Near East cannot be established without a solution to the Palestinian issue through the mutual recognition of two independent states, Israel and Palestine, and respect for Lebanon's statehood.
The Greek government must: Take initiatives, within the EU framework, to revise the Barcelona Treaty and to revitalise programmes to promote a climate of mutual trust and cooperation between the countries of the European South and the African Mediterranean and, above all, to support them.
Actively participate in international initiatives for justice and peace in the Near East through mutual recognition of two independent states, Israel and Palestine, and respect for Lebanon's statehood, and join with other European governments in calling for an immediate end to the occupation of Iraq.
To express solidarity with the peoples who are challenging authoritarian dictatorships and the demand for freedom and democracy that is spreading to almost all the countries of the Arab world.
8.2 Defence & Security in Modern Greece
The Armed Forces are one of the key components of the overall footprint of the country's national power.
Particularly today, when its economic vitality is being tested, the existence of armed forces capable of deterring any threat is an absolute necessity.
Unfortunately, the post-communist two-party establishment did not leave the national defence and of course the armed forces unscathed.
The extreme partisanship, which has been applied all these years at the expense of transparency and meritocracy in the armed forces, combined with the serving of expediency in armaments, have been the obstacle to their development.
and have resulted in the waste of valuable resources and the deprivation of these resources from society as a whole.
Safety environment
Greece is a peaceful country committed to the principles of the United Nations Charter and the European perspective.
It recognises that the modern security environment and its unstable geopolitical environment requires the adoption of a realistic national defence strategy.
Structure of the armed forces
The structure of the ED largely reflects the post-civil war dispersion of units and camps, a fact that results in the deprivation of valuable human resources from the Evros-Islands units.
There is an immediate need to reorganise the ED with the main objective of increasing its operational effectiveness.
They need to improve intersectorality and become flexible, fast-moving, effective and threat-oriented.
An effective ED does not necessarily mean a massive ED.
At the same time, the reorganisation of the structure will bring valuable economies of scale
and will allow resources to be channelled into acquiring supplies valuable to their operation.
Relations with international organisations-defence cooperation
Our participation in the Common European Defence and Security Policy, following the entry into force of the Lisbon Treaty, and the promotion of the arrangements provided for by the solidarity clause and the mutual assistance clause must be a strategic option.
In the same context, permanent structured cooperation with the Republic of Cyprus in the Eastern Mediterranean is our immediate priority.
Staff
Meritocracy and transparency should be established in the army.
The selection of the military leadership by the CSCEO would have to be confirmed by the House Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence by an enhanced majority.
A specific term of office should be established for the leaders so that they can carry out their work without distraction.
Military service should be reformed to make it useful and productive for the country and for the conscripts themselves.
Their training should be substantial so that, on the one hand, the troops benefit from their knowledge and studies
and, on the other hand, to acquire skills that will be useful to them later on after their dismissal.
Equipment programmes
The level of defence spending, as a percentage of GDP, has over the years diverted valuable resources to social purposes.
Despite the huge sums involved, defence procurement was carried out through opaque and extra-regulatory procedures.
This has to stop.
For all defence procurement, the procedures of national defence planning should be strictly followed and the cost-benefit ratio should be calculated.
The final decision on the choice of the source of supply is a political decision in the context of the country's foreign policy.
The House Standing Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defense must exercise effective control over arms programs.
The acquisition of weapons systems should follow the principle of "quality over quantity",
while we should turn to developing research and acquiring cutting-edge technology to make weapons systems work as force multipliers.
Armed forces and society as a whole
The armed forces, in addition to their main task of responding to security and defence crises, should be able to contribute to and assist civil protection services in the management of emergencies caused by natural or man-made disasters.
