Programme and values
For us, the programme goes beyond slogans and beyond concrete measures, even though these are also needed.
For us, a programme means values, principles, clear orientations, firm lines.
And our programme is based precisely on the values of solidarity, justice, freedom, equality, ecological responsibility. With these values we will, if necessary, manage even the most mundane things.
For us, a programme also means a way of thinking, a way of analysing, understanding the problem, prioritising needs and priorities.
So for us the needs of people are above profits and above any self-interest or partial interest.
3. For us, a programme means dialogue - scientific, social and political dialogue, dialogue with movements, dialogue with citizens. We want to shape our programme through such dialogue.
4. A programme still means a process of building social alliances, consensus from below.
Uniting the people is also a matter of programme. Our programme is therefore the basis, the programmatic formulation of a broad social alliance between the world of labour, the world of knowledge, culture and youth.
It is a social alliance to prevent the further bankruptcy of society; to prevent the further disintegration of the productive fabric; to find the road to recovery and hope.
5. In this sense, then, the programme for us is a continuous process. It is not a static and eternal document. It is an ongoing effort, open to new ideas and innovative actions.
6. Finally, when we say programme we mean a political process. A process not just of managing the situation, but of opening up new paths. And that is exactly what our programme does. It is trying to open up new paths. It tries to prevent risks. It tries to face and seize opportunities.
Our goals
The second point I would like to make is the political objectives of our economic programme. As has already been mentioned, leaving the euro is not our choice,
nor can we agree to continue with a policy that does not guarantee the survival of society and the country.
SYRIZA proposes to the Greek people, but also to the peoples of Europe, the only realistic way out, which consists in a new honest, binding agreement with the institutions and peoples of the EU that will allow us to achieve three basic objectives.
The first is to relieve the suffering people, the victims of the crisis.
The second is stabilisation and recovery.
And the third is the implementation of a programme of radical reforms and transformations through which there can be a substantial reintegration of our country into the European scene and the international division of labour.
How will we achieve these three objectives?The first objective will be achieved through concrete measures for immediate implementation and immediate delivery, seeking to alleviate the suffering of those who have suffered so much from the crisis and the policy of the Memoranda. And our programme refers to such measures.
The second objective is about recovery and stabilisation and is crucial, as it is a precondition for the other measures to be implemented.
We cannot make serious reforms in an environment of economic and social collapse.
We will seek recovery and stabilisation by freezing measures that provide for further wage and social spending cuts,
by stopping the violent redistribution at the expense of the weak, by
a package of measures to seek the recovery of investment, public investment in principle, but also all forms of investment,
and the recovery of employment, by a new fiscal framework for a fair and sustainable reduction of deficits.
As regards the third objective, that is, the reduction of insecurity and the rebirth of hope and perspective for the whole of society: this is the objective we will seek to achieve by restoring the sovereign right of the Greek people to decide their own destiny.
From the memorandum we keep the problems. Yes, we have a public deficit problem, yes, we have a balance of payments problem, yes, we have a corruption problem - we are not waiting for the memorandum to tell us that.
Yes, we have a problem with the management and functioning of the state. The solutions, the objectives, the targets, the pace, the measures must and will be decided by the Greek people.
By replacing the Memorandum with a plan for the recovery of society, the reconstruction of the economy and a fair adjustment.
By regulating the debt and the terms of future financing of the growth of the economy.
Why new types of reforms and transformations?
The third point I want to address is the question of why reforms? Of course, we are talking about reforms with a completely different content.
I heard Mr Samaras talking about measures, measures, measures, measures.
Of course, measures are needed, but in the country we live in, the first Presidential Decree for a land register was issued in 1831 by the first governor of our country, I. Kapodistrias.
And today we still do not have a complete cadastre.
The first announcement for the compilation of a property inventory was made by Charilaos Trikoupis in 1893.
It is 2012 and we still do not have a complete and universal property register.
The first major attempt at administrative reform was made by Eleftherios Venizelos.
Even today we are still living with the patches of that reform.
The first serious discussion of a more general and substantial tax reform was made in 1955 by Varvareso, a bourgeois economist.
The tax reform proposed by Varvaresos has still not been implemented.
So when are we going to do this? If not now, when? And who will do this, if not a government of the left?
Second, the crisis we are experiencing is not just a crisis of management, but a crisis of the system itself.
Therefore, we cannot guarantee the interests of the workers by maintaining or restoring the collapsing old system.
We will do this on the basis of a new growth model, a new social model, a new labour model, and that is what we are aiming for with the reforms we are proposing.
The third reason is that, through the governance of the country by the vicious two-party system and through the harsh and unequal policies, the crisis has also taken the form of a crisis of delegitimisation, a crisis of trust in the institutions, Parliament, the parties, the trade unions.
So, only through new, democratic institutions, institutions of social control, institutions of direct democracy, only in this way can we gain the trust of the people in a scenario and in a project of hope.
The dynamics of our programme
I would like to end with one more question. On what will the dynamics, the outcome of our programme depend?First, of course, on ourselves. On the pace and the capacity that we will show, through a violent maturation, to become that political subject of collective and solidarity responsibility that will unite the broader forces that can implement this project.
The second factor is society. The ability of society to fight fear, the ability of all of us to move forward towards a positive perspective, to form a new relationship with politics beyond the logic of "delegation" and clientelism.
And the third factor is the developments in Europe. We said from the beginning that our programme, our struggle, is both national and European. From the beginning we said that we want to change the paradigm. Both in Greece and in Europe.
That is precisely why our victory on 17 June will be a push for all the peoples of Europe towards positive changes.
The course of Europe will affect our own project accordingly.
Fourth: the dynamics of our programme will also depend on the attitude of other powers, beyond the European Union, Russia, China, the Arab world, Latin America, countries and peoples with whom we seek equal relations. And therefore the dynamics of our programme will also depend on their attitude.
But the first and main role is for us, the Left, and society in this contract of hope that our programme reflects.
We have the responsibility to see it through to the end.
It is up to us to put into practice this realistic utopia that history has put before us.
It is up to us to create a spring in the heavy winter of the crisis, to put an end to the Middle Ages that neoliberalism is leading to, to declare the end of destruction and to start a renaissance both in ourselves and in Europe.
The stakes are high, but it is worth fighting and winning as a people and as a society.
THERE IS A WAY OUT!  SYRIZA'S ECONOMIC PROGRAMME SUMMARY A. The policy of Memoranda and internal devaluation has proved disastrous.
- Two years after the adoption of the Memorandum policy and the policy of "internal devaluation", the recession has not only not given way to recovery, as envisaged in Memorandum 1, but is out of control, with the economy having contracted by 20% overall.
- Not only has public debt not become sustainable, as envisaged in Memorandum 1, but even after its haircut it is out of control.
- Unemployment is at peacetime unprecedented levels of 23% for the population as a whole and over 50% for young people.
The standard of living of a large part of society has collapsed, with the dimensions of poverty increasing alarmingly.
- The chronic structural problems of the Greek economy are not only not being addressed, but are becoming entangled in a vicious circle and a rolling deadlock.
Β. Reinstatements: Basic directions of our plan
The "cure" of the Memorandum proved to be more destructive than the crisis itself.
The memorandum policy, with internal devaluation at its core, has proved to be a weapon of massive social destruction, a deadly experiment against the Greek people, which must be stopped now, before the disasters become irreversible.
We therefore need to put an end to the policy of destruction now. But the crucial question is in what way, in what direction will we move?
We argue that the causes of the failure lie at the core of the original planning, in the misdiagnosis of the crisis and the prioritisation of the causes.
That is why "prolonging" the same policy is not enough.
A new diagnosis is necessary, a new approach to the problem, a radically new orientation, in the opposite direction to the neoliberal model that was attempted to be imposed by domestic and international interests.
We clearly formulate the new directions contained in our alternative plan, directions that are at the opposite end of the disastrous memoranda:
i. We reject the theory of the "collective guilt" of the Greek people for the policies pursued by Greek and European governments.
It is these policies that must be reversed.
We reject concepts that deliberately hide the responsibilities of the policies that have been implemented and the interests that have benefited from them.
It is not the DNA of Greeks that is responsible for the fact that we don't have a proper tax system and an effective welfare state.
It is specific policies and interests that are responsible for this.
ii. The Greek crisis is not a "national specificity" but part of a wider European crisis, with causes both endogenous and exogenous.
Only in the context of a common European solution can Greece's existing specific problems be addressed.
iii. Fiscal stabilisation and the sustainability of public debt cannot be achieved in an austerity environment.
Only in conditions of economic recovery can the necessary transformations and sustainable solutions be attempted.
iv. Development presupposes ecological transformation, developmental redistribution, the fight against poverty, unemployment and inequalities as its constitutive content.
v. Neoliberal-inspired "structural changes" do not solve social problems, but redistribute resources and rights at the expense of the weak.
The way out of the crisis requires reversals, new types of structural changes, radical reforms and transformations in the state, the economy and the political system, which cut the roots of problems, reduce inequalities, release dormant forces of society, open new paths and perspectives.
But no real reform can take place in conditions of economic collapse, constant blackmail, substantial curtailment of democracy and collective incrimination of society.
So here is what is really at stake in the upcoming elections: will the same destructive policy continue under the weight of the well-known blackmail and the intimidation of society or will we follow the path of realistic hope, making the leap forward, as proposed by SYRIZA in its alternative plan?
Γ. The objectives of our alternative plan
SYRIZA does not have as an option the exit from the euro,
nor can it consent to the continuation of the same destructive policy, even with extensions or minor adjustments, as PASOK and ND are late proposing, since these are not capable of supporting a prospect of survival.
Therefore, SYRIZA proposes to the Greek people and the peoples of Europe the only possible way out, which consists in a new, honest and binding agreement with the institutions and the peoples of the EU, which
will allow Greece to implement a plan of radical transformations and reforms along the following lines:
- The prevention of an even more massive bankruptcy of large sections of the working class and the middle classes.
- Preventing an even greater destruction of the productive fabric.
- The immediate halt to the violent redistribution to the detriment of wages and the welfare state.
- The immediate implementation of a different policy for the relief of the world of work and the recovery of society.
- The implementation of a new policy framework for a fair and sustainable fiscal consolidation.
- The formulation of a new model of social, ecological and economic development.
- The effective reintegration of Greece into the European project in a credible manner and on terms of mutual respect, equality and dignity.
The collapsing two-party system delivers empty coffers, a crumbling economy and a society divided into three parts.
Two thirds are unhappy or live in great insecurity and only a small part of society is prospering.
The lower end of society, which is constantly growing and already exceeds 40%, consists of the victims of the crisis and the policy of the Memorandum, the unemployed, the low-paid and low-pensioners, bankrupt households, ruined professionals and small entrepreneurs.
The next layer is still economically alive, but lives in depressive insecurity.
These are mainly sections of the middle classes, relatively highly paid workers, professionals and small businesses, who can still afford it but not for long if the same policy continues. The whole of society is experiencing a deadlock and is experiencing a lack of visible prospects.
In the face of this painful and dangerous social reality, the immediate political objectives of our programme are three: first, the immediate material relief of the victims of the crisis and the memorandum policy.
Our second objective is to prevent an even more massive and even greater economic catastrophe by stabilizing the economy immediately.
Our third objective is to reduce widespread insecurity, to revive hope, to create new, visible prospects.
With regard to the immediate material relief of those living below or close to the poverty line, whatever resources and possibilities exist will be allocated as a priority to this objective, through interventions in income, taxation, credit policy, access to public goods, support for solidarity economy forms (see specific measures in the annex).
As far as the recovery objective is concerned, this will be pursued:- By freezing the measures that provide for wage and social spending cuts, the violent redistribution against the weak and any other measure that exacerbates the recession.
- By a package of measures aimed at a bottom-up recovery of the economy, public investment, employment and incomes.
As regards the third objective, the reduction of insecurity and the revival of hope for the future, this is pursued on the basis of a plan with the following points:- the restoration of the sovereign right of the Greek people to decide their own destiny
- the replacement of the Memorandum with a plan for the recovery of society, the reconstruction of the economy and a fair fiscal stabilisation
- the regulation of the accumulated debt and the terms of future financing of growth, with the cancellation of a large part of the accumulated debt, with a clause to service the rest according to the growth rates, and with the suspension of interest payments until the economy recovers.
Such an arrangement will be pursued in the context of a common European solution to the sovereign debt of all countries and, if this is not possible, on the basis of bilateral negotiations.
- the implementation of a programme of radical reforms and transformations in the state, administration and the economy, with a view to shaping a new, sustainable, equitable and ecologically compatible pattern of development.
On the critical issue of fiscal policy in particular, we are committed to a programme of realistic and socially just fiscal consolidation.
The structure of this programme consists on the one hand of stabilising public expenditure at around 44% of GDP and reorienting it towards social and economic efficiency, and on the other hand of increasing public revenues, which are significantly below the euro area average (41% of GDP against 45%), through the taxation of wealth and high incomes, with the aim of increasing direct tax revenues to average European levels (+4% of GDP) over a four-year horizon (1% of GDP each year), through a radical reform of the tax system, in order to identify the income and assets of each citizen and to distribute the tax burden fairly.
Our more general aim is to restore the essential role of the state budget from a mechanism of transaction between political and economic leadership groups to an instrument for redistributing income, reallocating productive resources and exercising macroeconomic policy (see also the Annex).
Δ. The method
The method for achieving these goals is a programme of radical reforms and transformations in the state and the political system, with society at the forefront.
Reversing the course towards degradation and marginalisation is impossible without the implementation of an extensive programme of radical reforms and transformations throughout the whole body of the Greek social formation.
Firstly, because the crisis we are experiencing is of the system itself and not only of the way it is managed.
Everything has to change: the political system, the state, the relationship between the citizen and the state and politics.
The way out, therefore, is not to return to some version of the past.
The way out lies in opening new paths towards new patterns of production and consumption,
towards new forms of real democracy,
towards new social arrangements based on equality and solidarity, respect for human dignity and the environment.
Secondly, because major reforms, such as the tax system, the administrative mechanism,
the redefinition of state-church relations, are major unfinished business of the past, even of the distant past.
These unfinished business of our collective historical life become today imperative needs, a condition of survival and an urgent precondition for halting the destruction.
Thirdly, because the years of governance of the country by a vicious two-party regime,
the chronic inequalities and injustices
and, finally, the disastrous austerity of recent years have delegitimized and destroyed any sense of trust in the institutions, Parliament, the parties, the trade unions and even the Constitution of the country.
So new democratic institutions and transformations of existing ones that create trust are needed.
The transformations and reforms that we propose here are a permanent part of the overall programme and constitute long-term changes.
But they must and can start now.
They can soon bear their first fruits.
The transformations we propose can be grouped under three broad headings. The first section (property, taxation) aims at increasing public revenues.
The second section includes reforms (public administration, etc.) related to resource responsiveness.
The third section describes transformations and reforms that, together with the previous ones, aim at increasing the wealth produced, strengthening society and the economy.
(i) Inventory
The Constitution of our country stipulates that Greek citizens have equal rights and obligations (Article 4 §2) and that "[...] contribute without discrimination to the public burdens, according to their strength" (Article 1 §5).
This constitutional imperative has been shredded by the vicious two-party regime, with its institutionalized tax havoc for the powerful and pervasive tax evasion.
The property register will record the property of all Greek nationals in Greece and abroad, in all forms of movable and immovable wealth.
This would allow the introduction of a single basic tax on which deductions or additional charges could then be introduced, with provision being made to prevent double taxation in any case.
The wealth register will be the starting point for a radically new tax system that is fair, simple and efficient.
When fully developed, it will allow for substantial tax relief for low-income earners, low pensioners, small owners, small shareholders and micro-bondholders, while increasing overall state revenues.
(ii) The informal economy must be addressed as a "structural problem"
The so-called underground economy is not the result of "low tax awareness".
It is mainly the result of a distorted response to the problem of competition faced by small businesses and self-employed professionals from large companies and monopoly groups, and the
consequence of the absence of public policy to respond to these problems.
Thus, the theft of taxes and social security contributions substitutes for comparative advantages, ensures survival and, in some cases, unjust enrichment.
The informal economy must therefore be tackled, both through revenue-raising and other tax measures and through sectoral policies and programmatic agreements, with a view to targeted productive reconstruction and the political tackling of cartels and unfair competition.
In the framework of such agreements, mutual commitments will be made by both the State and the operators of the sectors concerned.
(iii) Review all special tax regimes and create a modern tax collection mechanism
The review from scratch of all special tax regimes introduced after the Second World War is another dimension of tax reform.
These special schemes have made the tax system perforated and inefficient, so they should be abolished as part of a universal tax system.
The tax collection mechanism needs to be completely overhauled, with extensive use and rational use of information systems and the introduction of catalytic measures against corruption.
The creation of study centres on tax policy issues, combating tax evasion and especially internationalised tax evasion should also be pursued.
(iv) Public administration reform
It is the second major historical pending issue, after tax reform.
Administrative reform can only be implemented as an endogenous process based on the values of solidarity, social justice, respect for public goods, and in direct connection with the needs of Greek society.
It involves the political system, the administration, society.
Simultaneous and combined changes are needed in all three areas, with the aim of distinguishing between political direction and management.
Only on the basis of such a combined change can partisanship, corruption, waste and corruption be defeated.
In the new "division of labour", politics gives the vision and the directions, makes the choices, opens new roads.
The administration, together with the necessary scientific, research and educational institutions, becomes capable not only of implementing but also of proposing policies and alternative scenarios, depending on the possibilities, political choices and needs of society.
Through such a radical reform, institutions such as the double-entry accounting system, programme budgeting, systems for evaluating and monitoring the social effectiveness of spending, democratic development planning, but also new technologies and information systems can be introduced into the public administration and can deliver.
(v) To abolish the client system, a condition for reforming politics
The political system of the two-party regime is based on corruption and reinforces a pervasive corruption.
This system and its structures have penetrated all the resources of the administration and the state, in many sectors of society.
The elections of 6 May 2012 sent a strong message that Greek society no longer tolerates this system.
The dismantling of the client system will be the result of a combination of actions "from below" and "from above".
It requires the transition from the citizen-client, who passively entrusts his fate to the government, the party or to power in general, to the active, democratic citizen who feels and acts not as an individual but as a member of the municipality, of society.
This implies regaining trust in politics and institutions.
Our proposal, our plan, claims not only the vote but above all this trust.
To change the state, and from being an oppressor to becoming a servant of society.
To apply objective criteria, transparent procedures and public accounts everywhere, so that citizens know and can support and control.
This process of deconstruction, disintegration and ultimately the dismantling of the client system requires the assistance of society, of Parliament, of the judiciary.
The judiciary must respond to the universal demand to punish those responsible, no matter how high they are, always within the framework of the Constitution and the rule of law.
The Parliament must abolish the laws that institutionalize and protect the two-party system, introduce simple proportional representation and put an end to the multiparty system that allows the lawlessness of self-interest.
Society must push for a democratic political life and a political debate based on values, principles, ideas and programmes to solve its problems.
In this way, not only will the client system be dismantled, but the political system and the conditions of political life will be democratically transformed.
(vi) New institutions of social and labour control
SYRIZA will create the conditions for the emergence and institutionalization of new forms of social control.
Transparency in all administrative decisions and public accountability are key conditions for social control.
The entire administration, and in particular the institutions and structures that manage public money, are accountable to society and taxpayers.
At the same time, new forms of authentic expression of the will of workers and citizens must emerge on the basis of direct democracy, far from the clientelistic, partisan, employer or statist logics of the past, bred by the two-party regime.
(vii) Establishment of the principle of democratic planning and long-term planning at all levels of the state
An "invasion" of democracy, meritocracy and democratic planning in the daily functioning of the state and administration must be organised.
Knowledge and experience must also be gained so that alternative plans and development scenarios can be drawn up.
This implies a more comprehensive medium-term plan, while critical problems require programmes and centres of knowledge and study with a long-term horizon.
Such problems include, among others:The issue of the environment and dealing with the consequences of climate change.
Demographic trends and the consequences of an ageing population.
The management of water and natural wealth, seismic protection.
Energy planning etc.
These plans must be the business of Parliament, the scientific community and society, and must be accompanied by clear policies.
(viii) Reconstructing the economy: transforming and upgrading the productive system together with workers and society
To achieve a sustainable recovery of investment and employment, a combination of measures and public policies and a corresponding bank policy is needed, combining the support and, where possible, the rescue of the collapsing old productive base and the corresponding employment with measures and policies that encourage new productive activities, aiming at a new productive system that reduces dependence on imports and foreign borrowing, supports employment and respects the environment.
Such a productive reconstruction is interconnected with the reconstruction of the state, the reform of labour relations, the upgrading of work and the role of workers in decision-making, the immediate repeal of labour laws that have weakened the validity of labour contracts and the restoration of workers' bargaining power by strengthening the role and regaining the autonomy of the trade union movement, outside the traditional clientelistic, party and employer networks.
The transition to a new production model will not happen automatically through markets, but requires a long-term, coherent plan.
In this direction, policies and corresponding direct-benefit programmes can be immediately put in place to reduce unemployment for young unemployed people, unemployed engineers and other scientists, as well as sectors that, such as construction workers, are particularly affected by the crisis.
One of the priorities of a government of the left and progressive forces will be to open a broad political, social and scientific dialogue on the productive, social, labour and ecological model that we must shape as a society in the decades to come, aiming at a society of justice and full employment, solidarity, with an upgraded and equal position in the European and international division of labour.
In a world that is changing drastically in terms of scientific, technological and geostrategic realities, the formulation of such a long-term plan is a condition and prerequisite for addressing immediate, and in some cases dramatic, social problems.
This is the direction of all the reforms and transformations contained in this programme.
Beyond that, the active contribution of workers, local communities, and especially workers within the institutions of the state, as well as scientists, will be required.
Also, among other things, it is crucial to redefine the role and contribution of all forms of the economy, public enterprises, small private enterprises, large private enterprises, cooperatives, forms of solidarity economy in the context of a mixed economy, for the planned and targeted transition to a new, socially just and ecologically sustainable production system.
In these directions SYRIZA has elaborated and will submit even more detailed and specific proposals.
(ix) The Public Sector as a lever for qualitative and quantitative upgrading and reconstruction of the productive system
Intensify procedures for the modernisation and restructuring of public enterprises and institutions.
A new model for their organisation and management, which will ensure their effective and transparent operation, the protection of public interest, the radical tackling of corruption, interference or subordination of public enterprises to vested interests.
Rapid exploration of opportunities for programmatic partnerships between the public sector and private enterprises, both domestic and foreign, with the aim of developing businesses and expanding them into new activities in Greece and abroad.
(x) Banks at the service of society, an engine of growth
SYRIZA's immediate objectives in the banking sector, as they emerge from our overall proposal, are:To guarantee deposits in every possible way and to strengthen the liquidity of banks and the economy.
The recapitalisation of banks through the issue of common shares with voting rights, in order to safeguard the interests of the Greek public and Greek taxpayers.
Public ownership and social control of banks recapitalised with public money.
Dialogue with stakeholders to develop an effective system of public control.
The restructuring-cut in the private debt of households to banks, with a ban on foreclosure on the first home for low incomes and an adjustment of monthly instalments so that they do not exceed 30% of the debtor's monthly income.
The reform of the Tiresias, in order to lighten the burden on individuals and businesses and to make special arrangements taking into account the special circumstances created by the crisis and the credit squeeze.
The reform of the criteria and conditions for the operation of banks, so that they become a lever for growth, support for the real economy and targeted productive reconstruction.
The development of an integrated package of services for small businesses, self-employed people, farmers, new productive enterprises, forms of cooperative and solidarity economy.
(xi) Land use planning and cadastre everywhere
The demand for "zoning everywhere" concerns the zoning of housing, tourism, industrial zones, waste recycling, renewable energy infrastructure, livestock, mining zones, fish farms and so on, as well as the reclassification with strict legislation of holiday and tourist housing.
Urban spatial planning, together with a shift to small projects instead of large ones, will give ecological and economic content to a huge range of professions and economic activities, and contribute to sustainable development.
The siting of waste recycling and the planned transition to renewable sources will be a vital area of social economy and municipal entrepreneurship.
The privatisation of the Land Registry SA must be prevented.
Rather, it should be aimed at completing the cadastre as quickly as possible.
(xii) A comprehensive strategy for financing development and the needs of society
The substantial bankruptcy of the country, the destruction, devaluation, consumption and flight abroad of a large part of domestic savings and movable wealth, as well as the deep and prolonged recession, form an acute problem of financing growth and the future needs of social security for the coming years.
Our priorities are: stopping the outflow of deposits abroad and returning deposits to the banking system;
increasing public revenues through tax reform, combating tax evasion, curbing tax evasion and the shadow economy;
signing agreements to ensure the taxation of foreign deposits until the operation of the asset register. the
suspension of interest payments in the context of a new debt agreement;
the redesign and acceleration of the absorption of the NSRF and other European funds;
the full exploration and exploitation of possibilities for development cooperation with third countries, by activating a multi-dimensional foreign policy and exercising economic diplomacy.
Ε. The existing obstacles and why SYRIZA is the only force that can overcome them.
The leap described above is possible, but it faces specific obstacles: the decay of the institutionalised two-party system and the interlocking of the political and economic forces of the regime, which aim to control social developments and prevent changes that would affect their privileges.
the effective curtailment of democracy and national sovereignty, the loss of the ability to define policy objectives and instruments;
the uncontrolled recession, undervalued speculation, fear and widespread insecurity about the future and its prospects.
But only a new coalition of social and political forces, such as the one proposed by SYRIZA, can confront and overcome these obstacles.
- Because only with the timeless values of the Left of solidarity, justice, equality, freedom, can we inspire a spring of hope and open a new perspective.
- Because SYRIZA is the Left of the workers, the underprivileged, the new generations, the social forces for whom change and transformation are vital.
- Because the Left is a force for transforming society and not just managing the situation.
We want the state not as a spoil, like the parties of the two-party regime, but as a lever for the transformation of society. For this we need to transform the state itself.
- Because only the Left can support a new culture of active participation, of a militant attitude against logics that want the citizen to be a "client", against logics of "delegation" that want the citizen to be a passive spectator of developments.
- Because only SYRIZA has a plan alternative to that of the Memorandum, which opens up the prospect of fair and sustainable fiscal consolidation, economic reconstruction, transformation of the state and of politics itself.
It is this alternative plan that we call on the Greek people to give it even more power and an international voice with their vote on June 17.
Because we firmly believe that there is a way out, there is hope.
With SYRIZA's alternative plan
With SYRIZA strong
With society at the forefront
With a new social and political coalition of power
Annex 1 Guidelines for the immediate material relief of the most vulnerable
The following measures are indicative. They are complemented by social policy measures developed in a relevant chapter.
These and other related measures, in addition to providing immediate relief to the poor and the newly poor, contribute to stabilising the recovery of the economy.
(1) It will be sought through renegotiation, while the fiscal adjustment effort is ongoing, to allocate part of the resources of the NSRF to finance a special programme to combat extreme poverty by establishing a minimum guaranteed standard of living, providing shelter and food for the homeless and a special allowance for households whose no member has no job or other sufficient income.
(2) Restoring the minimum wage to previous levels and extending unemployment benefits.
(3) Direct tax relief measures (e.g., payroll tax, etc.) for the first home, the unemployed and those living near the poverty line.
(4) Credit policy measures by regulating loans, as provided for in our proposal.
(5) Ensuring access to health services, education, public transport and other public goods.
(6) Measures and policies to fight against price inflation.
(7) Redesign of support programmes for young farmers, as well as employment programmes, to maximise their social effectiveness.
(8) Encourage forms of solidarity economy.
(9) Allow for the possibility for closed or failing businesses to be run or reopened by the workers themselves, through cooperatives or other collective legal forms.
(10) Encouraging forms of direct trade between producers and consumers.
(11) Establishment of a permanent bipartisan committee in Parliament to work out a comprehensive policy to combat poverty in the medium to long term.
Annex 2 The new framework for fair and sustainable fiscal consolidation
The basic cause of Greece's fiscal crisis is the absence of a state mechanism that maintains its relative autonomy vis-à-vis private economic interests.
This political weakness has turned the state budget into a transactional mechanism that ensures the systematic financing of certain private interests, which at the same time enjoy a favourable tax immunity status.
As long as this system of economic and political exchange is maintained, it is impossible to solve the fiscal problem.
The government of the Left intends to overthrow this system of interdependence and achieve fiscal stabilisation with a radically opposite class orientation.
SpendingOur starting point is the position that public spending must provide a level of operational adequacy of the state apparatus, the provision of public goods and social welfare that guarantees a decent living for citizens, as well as the financing of public investment to ensure the long-term sustainability of the country.
We estimate that, in order to meet the above, the level of primary expenditure cannot be reduced further, but should be stabilised between 43% and 46% of GDP (i.e. with a minimum of current levels and a maximum of the euro area average).
But the problem of spending is not only the amount of spending but also its quality.
The services ultimately offered to the citizen are disproportionately low in relation to the resources spent.
This is due to the inter-linkages between business interests and public spending, which make key sectors such as health, public works, investment incentives, studies, service subcontracting and a host of other activities subject to an extremely costly and inefficient use of public resources.
Therefore, the issue of reallocation and reorientation of public resources towards more efficient, economically and socially effective uses arises.
Indicative measures - Immediate freezing of cuts in social spending, wages and pensions, in order to stop the marginalisation of low incomes and the degradation of middle incomes.
- A radical review and reallocation of public spending. Savings and rationalisation in areas such as duplication of services, waste of resources, spending without social efficiency.
The resources saved will improve the quality of public goods and services provided and will be channelled into areas that are lagging behind, such as health and scientific research.
- Operate and strengthen the central public procurement authority, which will control the pricing of goods and services purchased by the state from the private sector.
- Implement and extend arrangements for direct control of expenditure, such as transparency, e-prescription and the information system for monitoring all public expenditure.
RevenuesThe stabilisation of expenditure should be covered by an increase in public revenues, which are significantly below the euro area average (41% of GDP compared to 45%).
The adjustment we propose will come from the taxation of wealth and high incomes, with the aim of increasing direct tax revenues to average European levels (+4% of GDP) over a four-year horizon (1% of GDP each year) through a radical reform of the tax system, so that the income and property of each citizen is identified and the tax burden is fairly distributed.
The need for radical reform of the tax system arises from the realisation that low revenue collection is due to the design and constant modifications of the existing tax system, which becomes less efficient the more complex it becomes.
Its main failure is the inability to tax wealth and high incomes (direct tax revenues are only 8.3% of GDP in Greece compared to 11.8% in the eurozone).
This is due to widespread tax evasion, as well as to the web of tax exemptions and favourable regimes that leave the strata with the highest tax capacity untouched.
Therefore, what is needed is a simple and workable tax system that provides the right incentives, can be monitored and ensures a fair distribution of the burden on all citizens.
Indicative measures - Change in tax rates and the scale of personal and corporate income (at average European levels), in order to achieve an increase in revenues by easing the burden on the poorest and increasing the burden on the richest.
- Gradually reduce VAT rates and minimise them on basic necessities (bread, milk, etc.). This and the previous measure will have a positive multiplier effect on domestic demand, due to the higher propensity to consume of the lower income groups.
- Modernisation and staffing of tax offices with qualified personnel and strengthening of the information system for control, cross-checking and monitoring of the tax base over time.
Implementation of a complete and universal property register, which will record the property of all Greek nationals in Greece and abroad, in all forms of movable and immovable wealth.
Review all special tax regimes and tackle the informal economy.
The size of the public sector resulting from the above is in the order of 45% of GDP, which is close to the euro area average and we consider it to be in line with the provision of essential public goods and the taxing capacity of the private economy.
For as long as the crisis lasts and until this stabilisation is achieved, we will follow a special-purpose fiscal rule, aiming at a balanced primary balance of the regular budget (i.e. excluding interest payments and public investment - in 2011 there was a deficit of only 1.3 billion).
This rule follows from the realisation that a new renegotiation of public debt and its repayment interest is a condition of sustainability, and that there is an urgent need for financial support for public investments that can achieve the restart of the economy, while increasing the stock of physical capital and productivity.
Annex 3 Resources for financing the Greek economy
The Greek economy has reached a stalemate in financing growth, with the result that, under current policies, the recession is worsening, incomes are falling and unemployment is approaching dramatic heights.
Finding liquidity to finance growth and social needs is a priority for the government of the Left. For financing we can distinguish between internal and external sources.
Internal sourcesDespite the difficulties of the current situation, SYRIZA's main orientation is to find resources from internal funding.
More specifically: Creating conditions for the return of deposits and the stability of the financial system.
SYRIZA's programme aims to create the necessary conditions for the stability of the financial system and the safety of deposits.
For this, the necessary axes are:The reversal of the policies of economic destruction and social deconstruction, in order to create a positive economic climate and contribute to the return of deposits.
The recapitalization of banks under public control, so that both the capital adequacy of banks is guaranteed, but also that this is done under conditions that will safeguard the interests of society.
The Left government will take the initiative to create a pan-European deposit protection mechanism, which will be an important lever for the recovery of depositors' confidence.
Increasing resources through reform of the tax system for a growth-oriented redistribution of wealth.
Through a radical reform of the tax system, in a socially just and cost-effective way, we will achieve an increase in revenues, which will also become a source of financing for the economy.
This is the aim of our proposals, which constitute a major tax reform.
Tackling tax evasion and curbing the informal economy
One of the most significant losses of resources of the Greek economy comes from tax and contribution evasion, due to the spread of the underground economy and black and uninsured labour.
These deficits are widening due to the recession and soaring unemployment which imply additional loss of resources.
Addressing these problems is a priority in line with the measures set out in the relevant chapters.
Exploitation of mineral wealth and hydrocarbons
The exploitation of mineral wealth and hydrocarbons, with respect for the natural environment and local communities, through development consortia or other appropriate schemes, can be a source of revenue and a basis for financing the economy.
In this direction, it is of strategic importance to develop a national strategy for the exploitation of natural and mineral wealth in terms of public interest, the strengthening of the role of the State in HELPE and DEPA, as well as the upgrading of IGME, in contrast to its current devaluation.
National Wealth and Social Security Fund
All rights to the natural and mineral wealth of the country, including potential hydrocarbon deposits, if they prove to be economically exploitable, as well as all marketable movable and immovable property of the state, shall be transferred to a special, exclusively public fund created for this purpose.
The fund's resources will be used as a priority to cover future social security needs.
Signing of a bilateral agreement with Switzerland and other countries on the taxation of Greek citizens' deposits.
It is well known that there are billions of Greek deposits in the banks of Switzerland and other countries, which have not been taxed.
For a long, long time, Mr Venizelos had promised to go ahead with a bilateral agreement with Switzerland, but he probably lacked the political will.
For the government of the Left, such an agreement is a priority, so that the names of Greek depositors can be given in order to cross-check their tax returns, to tax their accumulated wealth retroactively, and to impose the appropriate tax on the interest on their deposits.
Suspension of interest repayment
This is a standing position of SYRIZA-EKM through which tens of billions will be released, which, instead of being directed to the lenders, will be used to meet the financing needs of the economy.
The length of this suspension - which will be negotiated - will depend on the state of the Greek economy.
Moreover, in the context of the public debt negotiation, a significant relief will be the linking of the interest rate, after the end of the interest suspension, to a clause on the growth of the Greek economy and employment.
External funding
Redesigning the NSRF and increasing its absorption capacity.
European programme to finance investment in EU countries to tackle the recession.
Greece, as well as other Eurozone countries facing liquidity problems, should be supported either with interest-free financing from the European Investment Bank or with alternative ways of financing within the framework of the European Union, taking into account a strategic planning of the sectoral structure of the Greek economy and the social needs that the financed investments should cover in order to be efficient.
In addition, Eurobonds can be a co-financing tool for the Greek economy.
Development cooperation with third countries.
Developing equal relations with other countries in the context of developing economic diplomacy.
The government of the Left will demand the development of equal relations with other countries outside the European Union that would be willing to contribute to the development of the Greek economy.
Strong potential for development cooperation seems to exist with Russia, China, countries of the Arab world and other countries.
A first step in this direction will be to ascertain exactly what these possibilities are.
SOCIAL AND LABOUR ISSUES
A fundamental prerequisite for the country to recover is the abolition and cancellation of the memoranda of plunder and demolition and the charting of a new course of progressive political reversal, progressive exit and reconstruction of the country.
The abolition and cancellation of the Memoranda in the context of a new policy of progressive reconstruction is not just a positive political choice, but a demand and a need for the survival of the Greek people, a demand and a need for the survival of the country and the prospects of the Greek youth.
The bourgeois political and economic establishment of the country, and in particular the leaderships of PASOK and ND, are not just leaving behind them a scorched earth but something much worse and more tragic.
They leave behind them a devastated and ruined country, which is no longer on the brink but literally tumbling into the abyss.
The public coffers are not only empty, but the state will not be able to cover its huge black holes and basic obligations after the elections.
The task of getting the country out of the current crisis and its recovery, under these conditions, is more than a titanic task and requires the endurance, strength, patience, perseverance, unity and the struggles of the Greek people.
SYRIZA is not a bourgeois party that offers benefits, makes clientele promises and announces bureaucratic services.
SYRIZA does not suggest and does not promise an easy and flowery way out of the crisis.
The country's road to a positive and rectifying way out is uphill and requires hard effort, responsible and serious work by all, which, in order to be possible, requires first of all policies that have social justice at their centre and core.
The dominant wild neoliberal choices and especially the choices of the memoranda of understanding in recent years have accumulated around us social ruins and a desolate social landscape.
They led to the collapse of wages and pensions.
They have brought about the disintegration and disintegration of industrial relations.
They have pushed unemployment, especially among young people and women, to historically unprecedented nightmarish heights.
They have created huge zones of insecurity, poverty, despair and misery.
The respective leaderships of PASOK and ND have brutally abused the country and the Greek people.
Their responsibilities are more than criminal and they must be held accountable in full.
Social and labour chaos reigns in the country at the moment. A new social and working middle age is prevailing.
The country, if the memorandum recipes continue, is heading towards Bulgarian wages at German prices,
while social services and labour relations will resemble third world countries.
A government of the Left that will unite the Greek people in a great progressive regenerative effort is the only one that can at this time halt the labour and social downward slide and lay the foundations for the labour and social recovery of the country, in the context of a new progressive course with a strategic socialist horizon.
Our strategic goal is the elimination of unemployment and full employment for all.
Our strategic goal is full, stable, secure, quality and humanly paid work, with a view to abolishing the exploitation of man by man.
Our strategy is a public, universal, upgraded, redistributive and universal social security system that provides human pensions and human, high-quality health care services.
Our strategic goal is the complete eradication of poverty and destitution, social justice and the development of a universal public system of free and high quality social services for all, first and foremost in the areas of health and education.
Our strategic goal is the cultural prosperity of the country, by promoting our cultural heritage and supporting contemporary cultural creation.
In the framework of these fundamental strategic objectives, a government of the Left will proceed with a programme of immediate measures in all these areas.
These immediate measures, which we propose below, without constituting a complete immediate programme, the elaboration of which is still in progress, give a first picture of the immediate interventions and the direction of the government of the Left.
A government of the Left with the participation of SYRIZA-EM, based on the unity of the people and their struggles;
based on a broad working people's alliance in the cities and the countryside;
based also on the solidarity of the left forces, the workers and the peoples of Europe, will proceed with a programme of immediate measures in the framework of its strategic aspirations.
The core of the socially barbaric memorandum operation of redistribution of wealth in favour of the forces of capital has been the complete deregulation of labour relations and the demolition of wages, in order to drive workers to the limits of absolute misery and to boost the profitability of very large enterprises and multinational corporate groups.
The disastrous for the country governments of C. Papandreou and his partners PASOK-ND, have led 1.5 million of our compatriots to the Cauldron of unemployment.
More than one in two young people are out of work, hundreds of thousands of workers are working without pay, around one in two workers are working on a rotating or part-time basis and one in three workers are uninsured!
The unemployment rates (21.7%) announced by ELSTAT for February 2012 have broken all historical records in our country.
53.8% of young people up to the age of 24 are unemployed and dependent on their parents, while the long-term unemployed now make up 54.6% of all unemployed.
But the real unemployment is much higher than the one announced by ELSTAT.
According to estimates by the GSEE Labour Institute, it will rise in 2012 to over 26% (1.5 million unemployed), with young people and women being the main victims.
The basic "tools" of the slaughter of labour rights and wages are the following:A. The extension and generalisation of the application of flexible forms of work.
Β. The effective abolition of the National General Collective Labour Agreement and the sectoral and inter-professional collective labour agreements, and their replacement by company collective agreements, usually concluded by simple associations of persons, or mainly by individual labour agreements.
The effective disorganization and neutralization of the OMED.
The drastic reduction of wages in the private and public sectors of the economy, ranging from 25% to 40%.
Γ. The easy and easy dismissals.
Δ. The labour reserve-pension suspension and public sector redundancies.
The culmination of the brutal attack against the world of labour was the coup d'état of the PASOK-ND coalition government's Council of Ministers on 6/28.2.2012, which completed the great political and social crime of destroying the minimum guaranteed wage (reduction of 22% and 32% for young people up to 25 years of age), unemployment benefits and collective labour agreements, a crime that led workers to impoverishment through individual labour agreements, young people to modern slavery and the unemployed to moral, social and economic extermination.
SYRIZA believes that for the very survival of workers it is necessary, apart from the reversal of the memorandum (de)regulations, to implement an alternative policy for the re-regulation and upgrading of labour relations with the strengthening of full, stable, insured, quality and decently paid work at its core.
Immediate measures
1. Immediate halt of the wage cuts provided for in the 2nd Memorandum.
2. Immediate repeal of the act of the Council of Ministers which reduced the minimum wage by 22% for older workers and 32% for younger workers under 25 years of age under the 2nd Memorandum.
The minimum wage will thus immediately return to 751 euros gross per month, and with it the corresponding allowances will be restored to their previous position.
3. Gradual restoration of wages to pre-memorandum levels, which will be made possible by halting the country's recessionary slide and ensuring a new course of economic recovery and growth.
4. Immediate return of the unemployment benefit to the 461 euro level where it was before the recent reduction under the 2nd Memorandum.
At the same time, an immediate extension of the unemployment benefit to two years.
The central effort of the government of the Left will be the rapid reduction of unemployment through a policy of progressive reconstruction of the economy and aiming at full, stable and quality employment.
5. Unemployment benefit will be introduced and will henceforth also be granted to self-employed persons who, due to the crisis, are forced to interrupt their professional activity without being able to find other employment.
6. Immediate restoration of Collective Agreements, from the National Collective Agreement to the Sectoral Collective Agreements.
Immediate reinstatement of the post-employment and mandatory extension of collective and sectoral agreements.
7. Immediate restoration of the limits and provisions in force before the implementation of the Memoranda for collective dismissals and compensation of dismissed workers.
Equalisation of compensation for termination of the employment contract of workers with that of employees.
8. Abolition of labour reserve-pension availability in the public sector. Stopping of dismissals in the public sector.
9. Abolition of hiring of workers.
10. Formulation of a series of safeguards against all forms of flexible employment.
11. Establishment of ex officio prosecution and imprisonment for the managers of companies that use illegal black labour and have uninsured workers.
New tough sanctions for employers who violate collective agreements, working hours and trade union rights.
12. Immediate reconstruction, upgrading and effective activation of the Labour Inspectorate, with the aim of drastically reducing violations of labour legislation.
13. Immediate reconstitution and upgrading of the Workers' Housing and Workers' Home Organisations.
14. Abolition of the special real estate tax (haratzi), with immediate priority to abolish it for low and middle income earners and real estate, and first and foremost for the unemployed, low wage earners, low pensioners and those living on the edge of poverty.
THE SYRIZA'S POSITIONS FOR A PUBLIC AND UNIVERSAL SOCIAL SECURITY. What has happened so far
The main tool of the neoliberal attack on the overwhelming majority of the Greek people is the operation to flatten the public insurance system of the country, using Memorandum 1 and Memorandum 2 as a vehicle.
With the implementing laws of the second Memorandum, the PASOK-ND coalition government drastically reduced the main and supplementary pensions, consolidated the supplementary funds in order to grab the reserves of those that are surplus and changed the character of supplementary insurance from public to private, with the introduction of an individual account for each insured person, on the model of Pinochet's Chile, with the ultimate aim of completely abolishing the supplementary pension.
In addition, the coalition government mutilated the property of the insurance funds, through the predatory haircut of social security reserves under the PSI+, which cost the funds about 13 billion euros.
The implementing laws of the new Memorandum were preceded by Law 3863/2010 (and of course Laws 3865/2010, 3996/2011, 4002/2011) which institutionalized the transformation of our country's insurance system from a public redistributive to a private capitalizing one.
The provisions of this law drastically reduced pensions and changed the structure and character of public social security in our country, with the introduction of the three-pillar system (basic pension, proportional, occupational-private) and consequently the transformation of social security into an individual-private system.
In essence, the state is almost completely withdrawing from financing social security, limited to a gratuity (a basic pension of 360 euros).
Pensions have been dramatically reduced: a) by reducing the annual replacement rates, from 2% per year to 0.8%-1.5% (depending on the years of insurance);
b) by taking into account for the determination of the pensionable salary the remuneration of the entire working life instead of the best five years of the last ten years of the working life;
c) by imposing a false solidarity contribution, of theLAFKA type;
d) by freezing pensions for six years (so far) and cutting pensioners' Christmas and Easter bonuses and holiday pay;
e) by drastically cutting them by at least 25%, of main and supplementary pensions over the last two years;
f) the adjustment of main pensions on the basis of actuarial studies, which will be carried out every two years and which, because of the robbery of the funds' reserves, are mathematically certain to indicate further reductions.
Also, the retirement age has been brutally increased even more than 15 years!
The repeated and violent cuts in benefits have not benefited our social security system, not even for a few months, because they devalue the trust of citizens in public insurance, reinforce the recession and contribute to tax evasion.
The austerity policy is bringing more austerity and no austerity at all. The 'one-way street' of the Memorandum is a dead end for the insured.
SYRIZA demands an economically viable, upgraded and socially effective, public, redistributive and universal social security system.
Our goal is a decent pension for old age and care for all citizens, so that no one is left helpless in difficult times, regardless of their income.
The existing problems
The existing problems of social security are the long-standing plundering of its reserves, which the state has used for purposes other than social security - with the situation having reached an unacceptable level in the last two years -, the high level of tax evasion, black uninsured work (one in three workers), the lack of state funding, the debts of the state and private individuals to it, the plundering of the health sector by pharmaceutical companies and private hospitals.
The dramatic increase in unemployment and flexible forms of employment, the escalating recession, the provocative contribution exemptions of employers and wage cuts are drastically reducing its revenues and threatening the funds' finances with immediate collapse.
Immediate measures
1. A halt to pension cuts, both main and supplementary, and their gradual restoration, starting from the recent cuts of the 2nd Memorandum, with priority to low pensioners.
2. Reconstruction and upgrading of the mechanisms for preventing tax evasion, protection and collection of the statutory social security resources by striking at uninsured work and tax evasion, tax exemptions and favourable arrangements, and reimbursement of state and employer debts to the funds.
Strengthening control mechanisms (SEPE and Fund services).
The aim is to reduce tax evasion from the current 30%-35% to the levels of tax evasion in European countries (1-3%), with a specific timetable for its reduction.
3. Establishment of new resources - complementary to the tripartite funding - for the social security system, which will not burden small and medium incomes. Restoring the losses of the funds due to PSI+.
4. Repeal of the last unacceptable change to the Heavy and Unhealthy Occupations Regulation which arbitrarily excluded many occupations.
5. Restoring employers' social security contributions to pre-memorandum levels in order to boost the revenues of the social security funds.
THE POSITIONS OF THE SYRIZA ON HEALTH-SOCIAL SOLIDARITY
Health cannot be a commodity. It is a social good and a right for all.
Α. What has happened so far
At a time when the crisis and poverty is pushing people en masse to the public health system (30% increase in attendance), it is being dramatically dismantled and shrinking, due to the bloody memorandum cuts in public health spending.
With hospital budgets slashed and the debts of the insurance funds unpaid, the risk of a total collapse of the public health system in a few months is visible.
Already hospitals are closing or underperforming.
The available beds are limited.
The huge shortages of staff, materials, equipment and the over-rationalisation of health workers' work create conditions of precarious operation of hospitals and patient care.
The merger of the health branches of the health insurance funds and the establishment of EOPYY was presented as an upgrade of primary health care and the creation of an integrated network of Primary Health Care.
In fact, even these inadequate IKA structures are being dismantled.
9.5 million insured people are squeezed into a system with fewer doctors, reduced benefits, a greater financial burden on patients and a deficit budget.
The EOPYY is immediately driven to bankruptcy and inability to meet the needs of the insured.
Under the pretext of fighting corruption and waste in the field of medicine, they pass on the cost of pharmaceutical expenditure to patients.
Hundreds of medicines are excluded from the prescription lists, at the same time as speculative interests in the pharmaceutical sector are rampant, creating dangerous shortages of essential medicines.
Β. What is our vision
SYRIZA-EKM demands a new upgraded, well-staffed, free and universal health care system, to which every person in need will have access, regardless of their economic and social situation or their nationality.
The development of an integrated primary health care system with an emphasis on prevention, post-hospital care, close to where people live and work is our priority.
A prerequisite for the realisation of this objective is adequate health financing from the state budget, which should be the main source of funding for the system, and rational and transparent management.
Γ. Direct intervention measures
1. Cancellation of the Memorandum's provision for further reduction of public health expenditure. and a simultaneous crackdown on corruption.
2. Measures for the financial support of EOPYY, in order to provide the necessary health care.
Immediate strengthening and development of the operation of the laboratory infrastructure of IKA-EOPYF, in order to stop the major bleeding of resources to large diagnostic centres.
Ensuring that patients have the necessary medicines in every case.
Control of parallel exports.
Establish a national pharmacopoeia and start a study for the development of a national pharmaceutical industry.
Accelerate the implementation of a functional, complete and secure e-prescribing system, procurement, medical equipment.
Supporting domestic production of medicines.
4. Abolition of the 5 euro entrance fee to public hospitals.
Free access to health and hospital care for the unemployed, the needy, the low-paid and vulnerable groups immediately and gradually for all.
5. Cover the needs for the necessary staff and equipment for the operation of public hospitals and health centres.
Repeal of Law 4052/12 and annulment of irrational mergers.
Suspension of the application of the Closed Consolidated Hospitals for public hospitals and restriction of contracts with private hospitals.
Preventing the ongoing privatisation of the Dunnan, Onassis and other hospitals.
6. Building a relationship of trust with health workers , with repayment of accrued wages to hospital workers and a specific timetable for the gradual repayment of accrued wages and debts to those working with the insurance funds.
Control of the debt to large private health care companies in relation to their debts to insurance companies and the state.
Social Solidarity - Care
The more than one million unemployed, the thousands of homeless people, the high poverty rates that are constantly increasing (about 30% of the population below the threshold), the need for soup kitchens that is multiplying throughout the country, the increase in drug addiction and new cases of HIV infection, the explosion of mental illnesses and suicides, constitute a reality of social genocide that is slowly leading to the extermination of the weakest and most vulnerable sectors of society, which is becoming a humanitarian crisis.
At a time when citizens and particularly vulnerable groups need more than ever the existence of an expanded welfare state, they are facing its rapid shrinkage and collapse.
The mergers of welfare structures, the dramatic reductions in funding of up to 50%, the ongoing understaffing, the forced withholding of up to 80% of the pensions of people living in psychosocial rehabilitation units, the unloading of welfare from the Ministry of Health and its transfer to the Ministry of Labour, the devaluation of the "Help at Home" programme, etc., are some of the regulations that have been legislated in the last year.
Programme of direct interventions
In the face of this modern social Caiada and the widening social exclusion, SYRIZA-ECM responds with direct interventions:1. 1.
2. Support (food, heating, etc.) for social groups such as the disabled, large families or single-parent families living on almost zero income.
3. funding, extension and expansion of the "Help at Home" programme for every citizen in need with the minimum conditions.
4. Adequate staffing of all public day care centers to meet all needs.
5. Gradual restoration of the rights of polygamous families and equalization with those of three-parent families, in accordance with the relevant legislative proposal that we submitted to Parliament.
Our aim is to support vulnerable social groups (disabled, mentally ill, elderly, poor, drug addicts, etc.) by funding social structures and upgrading the care services provided with a view to integrating them into a single health and welfare system that is truly public and free of charge.
THE POSITIONS OF SYRIZA ON EDUCATION
The neoliberal memorandum policy that has been pursued in the last two years in the field of Education and Research has been disastrous for public education at all levels, all the more so as it came as a continuation of the neoliberal choices of the governments of previous years.
But the memorandum was a breakthrough. More than ever before, education as a public good was challenged and undermined and turned into a privilege for a few, in the direction of the 'market school and university'.
General education has been downgraded.
Even the minimal support programmes for children who encounter difficulties at school have been abolished.
Special education has been downgraded.
Organizations (PI, OSK, OEDB, IGME, EKKE) were privatized or abolished, with a significant impact on the education and research provided.
Photocopying replaced books.
14% of school units were abolished or merged.
Educational officials at all levels have been discredited.
Their already meagre income was dramatically reduced.
A policy of strict austerity and authoritarianism was applied in the university and technological institutions.
Law 4009/11 attempted to abolish the constitutionally guaranteed self-governance and the dissolution of any trace of democracy in universities, the splitting of degrees and the demolition of professional rights.
Young scientists are taking the path of immigration.
And while public education is collapsing, with Memorandum 2 new measures are decided that are even more unbearable.
Expenditure on the recruitment of teachers is cut even further, while student care is essentially abolished.
SYRIZA's proposal is at the opposite end of this extreme neoliberal policy.
For us, Education is a universal human right and a social good.
It is the obligation of the state to provide free public education equally to all, with the aim of the all-round development of the personality.
The removal of class barriers, the elimination of all kinds of discrimination and the free provision of high quality public education are our value goals.
SYRIZA has long aimed at a comprehensive, radical educational reform with the following axes: the reconstruction of all levels of education, the introduction of two-year compulsory pre-school education and 12-year compulsory education, the upgrading of the Lyceum as a single autonomous educational level, the support of technical-vocational education, the abolition of general examinations and the transition to free access to higher education.
The defence of the public good of democratic, free university education, the abolition of all tuition fees, where they have been imposed.
The upgrading of curricula, the protection of degrees and the professional rehabilitation of graduates.
The safeguarding of academic autonomy and freedom in research and teaching.
Strengthening research and its infrastructure as a driver for the country's development. We also point out that the substantial upgrading of public schools will make private education unnecessary.
Direct Programme for Education
1. Repeal of all memorandum laws on education.
Freeze all abolition-merger operations. No dismissals in education.
Stop all further cuts in Education and Research funding.
No redundancies, abolition of the labour reserve and all flexible forms of work in education.
2. Securing funding for the pressing needs of education.
Adjusting the allocation of NSRF funds.
Ensure the operation and administration of all types of public general and technical vocational education and training, as well as of higher education institutions, in September.
It is therefore necessary to resolve all the basic issues of their operation (textbooks, textbooks, operating costs, reopening of school and university libraries).
25 pupils per class for secondary education and, in the future, 20 pupils per class for primary education.
Strive to meet all needs in terms of teaching and administrative staff, as well as to ensure the sustainability of research centres.
Our particular concern is to mitigate educational and social inequalities.
A programme to support children with learning and other difficulties, as well as schools operating in the most deprived areas of the country.
Reintroduction of remedial teaching.
Solidarity and anti-poverty structures in schools and universities.
Reconstructing student care, housing and accommodation.
Free preventive health check-ups for children who do not have health care.
Utilization of all the inactive funds of the Ministry of Education to tackle malnutrition among young people, creation of social canteens or self-managed canteens as in the case of the University of Thessaloniki, organization of school canteens in areas with major problems due to the crisis.
It is our duty to restore the dignity of teachers and to coordinate, through a real dialogue, all educational and research institutions, pupils, students and parents for the rebirth of education in our country, the most basic investment capital we have.
THE POSITIONS OF THE SYRIZA ON CULTURE
The neoliberal model of the country's development was also adopted in the field of culture, trivializing every scale of values, regarding our cultural heritage and contemporary artistic creation.
With the onslaught of the memorandum policies, the field of culture and Art has been literally swept away, with the result that artists are facing high unemployment to the extent of a humanitarian crisis, and with black labour invading threateningly.
As SYRIZA we believe that culture can be a strategic axis of an alternative model of economic and social development.
At the same time, with the exploitation of archaeological sites and newer monuments, it can also contribute to the enhancement of tourism.
Immediate measures
1.      Immediate repeal of all laws destructive to the natural and cultural environment concerning investment activities through the fast track procedure. Strengthening the Archaeological Service.
2. Adequate and merit-based funding for all institutions of contemporary culture based on quality and the promotion of new creators, with transparent procedures and publication of the criteria on the Internet.
3. Strengthening artistic, musical and theatrical education at all levels of education, with sufficient and qualified staff and by providing the necessary means.
4. Upgrading of arts education and upgrading of the degrees of the existing drama and film schools.
5. Insurance rights and labour regulations for all cultural workers.
Solving the pension problem of artists.
Honorary pensions for creators who have contributed to the country.
6. Amend the law on cinema in a way that supports creators.
Changing the operating framework of the Cinema Centre.
7. Obligation of channels to comply with the law on the 1.5% for Greek cinema.
8. Strengthening the role of public television and radio, which, in addition to providing objective information, must offer culture and quality entertainment.
Commitment of a specific percentage of the special fee for the production of Greek fiction and documentary programming.
Implement the legislation providing for the payment of a fee for the use of frequencies by private channels.
Upgrading the Greek programme.
Suspension of dismissals and immediate payment of accrued wages.
9. Amendment of the law on state theatres and democratic procedures in decision-making.
10. Complete overhaul of the Municipal Regional Theatres, with a new legal framework and a new creative breath, and freeing them from party dependence.
11. Provision of reduced or free tickets for theatres, cinemas, concerts, etc. to the lower economic strata and the unemployed.
DEMOCRATISATION OF THE POLITICAL SYSTEM, PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION, SECURITY
The economic crisis of the Eurozone is turning into a crisis of democracy.
The exclusion of politics from the market translates into the fact that the democratic political system ceases to satisfy the social needs of citizens.
Mostly it translates into a total mismatch between state and society.
In Greece, this reality comes to burden an already outdated political system with constitutive pathologies.
The extensive dysfunctions of the public administration, the party control of the state which to a large extent cancelled even the political role of parliament, turning it into a ratifying one, the colonisation of serious state structures by the party nomenklatura, much-discussed corruption, much-discussed however for the base of the pyramid and not for the critical sinful top, were our indigenous characteristics, gradually and gradually since the post-independence period.
To this accurate description, if one adds the level of governance of the last two years, which is characterized by a constitutional aberration, by the complete disrespect of parliament, by the loss of our national sovereignty, by the dismantling of health, education and social security funds, and above all by the absolute mismatch between the will of our people and the crucial governmental choices, we are led to a compelling conclusion:
The depth, quality and intensity of the crisis make it necessary to redefine society's relationship with the state, with the aim of democratising and making the political system transparent, revitalising and making the public sector more efficient, in order to create a modern institutional superstructure.
In this context I will develop some basic strategic axes, which will be accompanied by the first tactical moves of our government, the government of the Left.
At this point, allow me to make a very brief digression. I am on this panel together with very worthy, experienced and capable members of SYRIZA, of course with the president of the parliamentary group, Alexis Tsipras, who has already given the first practical guarantees to our people about the style, quality and orientation of our governance, but I want to emphasize the following:
SYRIZA-EKM has a scientific, political, technocratic and also kinematic potential that is ready to take over the governance of our country. If one adds to this excellent material,
firstly, our strategic objective, which is radical social, political and economic transformation
, and secondly, the way in which we want to make this leap, namely through democratic consultation and the vertical representation of social groups,
then we have before us a model of popular governance in the following sense:-Popular, because control will not only be institutional, but direct democratic control, by the living movement which will control, formulate proposals for the critical sectors of economic activity and public interest and to which we will be accountable
; Governance, because to reach one's strategic goal requires political will, a worthy cadre that will serve the tactical axes cooperatively, with perseverance and transparency.
I will start with two major reforms that have the strategic objective of completely redefining the political system at the level of central and local government.
1. Democratisation and transparency in the structure and functioning of the political system
- Restoring the representativeness of Parliament:
- Establishment of proportional representation with a view to its constitutionalisation.
- Reconstitution of the constituencies and redistribution of parliamentary seats, with a view to ensuring representative, equal and democratic representation of citizens. -
Complete overhaul of the constitutional framework of accountability and criminal liability of members of the Government
- Abolition of the regime of the law on the liability of ministers, and in particular of the provisions that violate equality and egalitarianism, introducing special privileges and shortening the statute of limitations for criminal offences committed by members of the Government.
- Establish an institutional framework that will put an end to impunity for criminal offences committed by political personnel.
- Reform of the procedure for lifting parliamentary immunity: parliamentary immunity is justified only to protect MPs in the conscientious exercise of their duties and cannot be turned into a mechanism for harbouring criminal offences.
- Strengthening the constitutional guarantee and protection of public goods and social rights (education, health, environment, social welfare).
- Effective protection and socially beneficial use of public property and assets, natural resources and natural and mineral wealth.
- Immediate start of consultation on the separation of Church and State.
- Reform of the Parliament's rules of procedure with an expansion of the control powers and capabilities of committees and MPs.
Right of the minority to challenge the establishment of committees of inquiry. Strengthening the legislative initiative of Members of Parliament and Parliamentary Groups.
Approval by the Parliament of the framework and the general direction for the presence of government representatives in the institutions of the European Union and other international organisations and the establishment of mandatory information of the Parliament.
Abolition of the government's prerogative to introduce bills under the urgency procedure without an increased majority.
- Re-establishment of the Budget Monitoring and Implementation Office with adequate staff and infrastructure, independent of the government and attached to the Economic Affairs Committee.
- Assigning to bipartisan committees of the Parliament the oversight of key services such as the Hellenic Statistical Authority, the Public Order and Security Services, the National Intelligence Service, etc. Access and information of the Parliament to every public authority and service in a broad sense.
- Observance of the procedure for the disclosure of the publication of the financial history and any form of financial or other support from any source to candidates, parties and combinations in any procedure for the nomination of elected representatives to public positions and public functions.
- Comprehensive review and rationalisation of the framework of scientific, administrative and financial support for the work of Members of Parliament, in order to ensure the independent, unhindered and effective performance of their institutional role.
- Abolition of the double pension for Members of Parliament with a choice of one insurance institution.
2. Democratisation, transparency and real decentralisation of public administration, strengthening local government
- Introduction of the simple proportional representation for the election of municipal and regional councils.
- Ensuring minimum guaranteed fixed revenues for local government from general taxation with direct and automatic transfer to its coffers.
- Organisational restructuring in the direction of strengthening the developmental function of local and regional government and the effective service of the needs of local communities.
- Establish participatory procedures in the preparation, implementation and control of local and regional government budgets (participatory budgeting).
- Establishment of the possibility of calling binding referendums at all levels of local and regional government on matters of major local importance by popular initiative.
The critical issue of Security
Our strategic goal is to respect the constitutionally protected right to security of every person in the Greek territory.
The prevention, deterrence and prosecution of crime today require high quality services, with modern organisation and equipment, a high level of training and a meritocratic and rational distribution of roles and responsibilities.
They also require full use of the skills, training and specialisation of the human resources of the relevant services.
- Reorientation of the anti-crime strategy, use of modern methods of crime prevention and suppression, with respect for constitutional rights and avoidance of communicative and ineffective operations against weak social groups.
- Modernisation and democratisation of the Security Corps, guaranteeing the labour and trade union rights of workers and in accordance with the needs of society.
- Selection of the leadership of the Security Corps through modern, democratic-democratic procedures, based on their formal and substantive qualifications and approved by a competent bipartisan parliamentary committee, which will support and control their work.
- Strengthening the real mission of the police, which is to protect the citizen.
- Prohibition of the carrying of weapons when policing demonstrations and rallies.
Dissolution of the MAT-YMET and a ban on the use of other special forces to suppress popular mobilisations.
Integration of special units into police stations, with the simultaneous creation of crisis response services (natural disasters, extreme crime and violence).
Immediate withdrawal of banned chemicals and materials that are hazardous to public health.
- Meritocratic procedures for joining-recruitment in all branches of the Security Forces. Mandatory Panhellenic Examinations and APSEP;
- Continuous theoretical and practical training of Security Corps personnel, in accordance with modern training methods and the high requirements of security and civil protection. -
Establishment of an objective system of crises and promotions, without party criteria and clientelism
- Separation of policing responsibilities from the pre-trial function and from the function of assisting justice.
Staffing of the Judicial Police.
Public administration - Relations between state and citizen-society
Our strategic goal is for the public administration and the public sector as a whole to serve social needs and the public interest.
At the same time, the fight against corruption and social control are critical priorities.
- Instilling a climate of security and protection for workers.
No dismissal in the public sector, except in cases of serious disciplinary and criminal misconduct, which are punishable by dismissal under disciplinary law.
- Removal of the hotbeds of corruption and political interference in the public administration that undermine the efforts and capabilities of the majority of those who work with dedication and conscientiousness in the public sector (e.g. removal of the army of highly paid consultants and appointed general managers).
- No state policy-making without the participation, both in planning and in implementation, of the relevant -affected- competent bodies or collectives (e.g. disability regulations without the relevant bodies, immigration policy without the migrant organisations, the support movements, the UNHCR, security without the collective bodies of the security forces and the civil rights and civil liberties movements, etc.).
- Formulation or revision of organisational charts by collective procedures in all branches, bodies and levels of the public administration and their strict observance.
Control of all procedures by employees and citizens.
- Filling all vacancies that will arise from the new organisational charts, in order to ensure adequate cultural, educational, medical, nursing and hospital coverage and unimpeded access to every point of the Territory.
No recruitment outside the APSEP;
- Implementation and enforcement of all administrative and judicial decisions. Formulation of an institutional framework to eliminate the possibility of abusive behaviour by the administration to avoid the application of legislation and enforceable decisions.
- Continuous training of human resources for the proper, efficient and merit-based operation of the state apparatus, as well as for meeting the needs of the citizen.
- Detailed due diligence, in particular in services managing financial programmes and in contact with the public.
- Establish a special financial control department to control and combat illegal employment and tax evasion.
- Fully computerise and interconnect public services throughout the country.
Constitutional revision
In view of the envisaged possibility of revising the Constitution, SYRIZA-ECM will seek a substantial revision process aimed at strengthening constitutional protection in key areas:
Protection of public goods and services, transparency in procurement, public works and the media, the historical, archaeological, residential and natural environment and public wealth.
Public goods include, as a matter of course, the broadcasting frequencies of radio and television stations.
Establish a framework for the final licensing of broadcasters. Mandatory payment of a financial contribution by private parties to whom the use of broadcasting frequencies is granted.
Strengthening the constitutional protection of the right to objective information and free access to it for citizens.
Establishing corresponding obligations for information providers.
Increased protection of social rights, with particular emphasis on ensuring and protecting decent living standards with decent wages.
Constitutional safeguarding of the European and international acquis for the protection of these rights.
Protecting labour, full employment, collective bargaining and regulatory rules.
Restoration of the welfare state and universal free provision of all its services to citizens.
In particular, regulation to replenish the reserves of the insurance system on the basis of a constitutionally binding plan.
The constitutional protection of the independence of the judiciary and the separation of powers.
Abolition of the procedure for the appointment of the leadership of the judiciary by the executive (Article 90 of the Constitution).
The constitutional provision for mandatory parliamentary scrutiny of all public expenditure, including so-called secret expenditure and special accounts.
A brief review of state-society relations in recent years is enough to show that all the pretended efforts to improve them have resulted in abortive results.
I recall the modernisation of the 1990s: it resulted in a profoundly unpopular technocracy, with huge scandals and intricate corruption as an integral part.
I recall the much-vaunted re-founding of the state by the New Democracy: it ended up in an amateurish technocracy, with huge scandals as an integral part of it, and with the pimps becoming equal and necessary allies.
I recall, finally, the most tragic of all the governments of the last two years, which turned Greece into a protectorate and our people into a plundered native.
It is this whole litany of family rule, of interconnectedness, of graft, of cobra, of selling out, of degrowth, of impoverishment of our people, that today brazenly and unabashedly claim to save the Greek people from the deep and muddy precipice they have abandoned them to.
Against this slimy and smelly litany, another world: The world of the left, of labour, of movements, of democracy, of transparency.
The world of the future in the face of a painful and unforgiving past.
With our programme, with our political will, with our cadres.
Mainly with the Greek people at the forefront of the struggle, control and accountability,
I say to you with full awareness of our responsibility, our patriotic, political and class responsibility, that the time has come for the Left.
FOREIGN AND DEFENCE POLICY
I have the honour and the responsibility to present on behalf of SYRIZA-EKM, in view of the elections of 17 June, our programmatic positions on Foreign Policy and Defence.
I must, before I move on, inform you that this is an update of our programmatic positions that we set out before the May 6 elections, which means greater specificity, deepening, weighting and prioritisation.
Greek society itself, with its popular verdict, has obliged us to respond. And this is something very important.
I must also tell you that a significant number of Foreign Policy and Defence Department officials worked for today's result.
Most importantly, I must say that a significant number of people with expertise and experience in the subject also came spontaneously and with enthusiasm and selflessness and put forward a wealth of ideas and proposals.
A part of them was incorporated into our positions.
However, the tight timeframe did not allow their full utilisation.
But we come out with more confidence thanks to this support.
We sincerely thank all these people, congratulate them and assure them that our cooperation will become much more creative in the coming period.
Introduction
The internal reconstruction and regeneration of our country is also inextricably linked to the assertion of a new foreign and defence policy on the basis of a new national strategy;
a strategy that promotes the non-negotiable principles of national independence, popular sovereignty, democracy, peace, freedom and territorial integrity of the country.
At a time when the international balance is changing and the hegemony of the US is increasingly challenged, the policy of Euro-Atlanticism and compliance with NATO's war plans has no future.
The situation in which Greece has found itself under the policy of the Memoranda is eroding its potential to play an active role in the cause of peace and stability in the troubled Balkans and the Mediterranean.
We believe that the liberation of our country from the Memoranda is also a prerequisite for a new multidimensional and actively peaceful foreign policy.
SYRIZA-EKM puts forward its own alternative proposal for foreign policy, which has a permanently open ideological and political front to war, imperialism, nationalism, racism, patriotism.
It is inspired by the principles of democracy, respect for human rights regardless of religion, race and national origin, equal international cooperation and international solidarity.
It acts on international law, but also on the principles of the Left for peaceful and friendly relations between peoples, the rejection of violence and the threat of violence.
This orientation is linked to stable values and secures in a safe way the sovereign rights of our country, without grand idealism and without adapting to the plans of the powerful imperialist centres.
We propose a new multidimensional, energetically peaceful foreign policy of Greece, free from Atlanticism, with the development of relations of equal cooperation in the Balkans and the Mediterranean, as well as with Russia, but also with countries outside Europe (China, India, Latin America).
A policy for the overall upgrading of its international position, with the Greek people alert and with the active contribution of the expatriate Hellenism.
We want the horizon of our country's international presence not to be limited to so-called national issues, but to cover major contemporary issues, such as environmental protection, poverty eradication and, in general, solidarity with the so-called "Third World", with which our border is the Mediterranean, where bridges and a new immigration policy are needed, not the walls of a fortress Europe.
For these reasons we are opposed to any participation of Greece in the so-called "war on terror", which is used for the military control of entire regions of the world and for the curtailment of the democratic rights of citizens.
Today the international balance is changing and the move towards a multipolar world brings to the fore antagonisms which in our region are expressed in a very intense way and create dangers for peace.
At the same time, however, space is also being created for new initiatives of regional cooperation, such as those emerging in Latin America, which are steadily developing in an anti-neoliberal and anti-capitalist direction.
The same finding requires the active presence of Greece in international organizations such as the UN and UNESCO, as well as in international initiatives for the democratization of the system of international relations, in the continuous effort to reduce armaments and ban weapons of mass destruction (nuclear, chemical, biological), as well as the immediate response to climate change, which is a danger to the very survival of humanity.
Ι. New, independent, multidimensional, actively peaceful foreign policy
Greek foreign policy for years has been a succession of asymmetrical adjustments to the plans of powerful allies (US-NATO-Israel, hegemonic powers and powerful EU states), combined with a piecemeal search for opportunities to strengthen influence in the Balkans, but also with a gradual loosening of traditional ties with countries of the Arab world and the Middle East.
This orientation must change.
By specifying the basic elements of this policy, we believe that today Greek foreign policy should prioritise the following twelve options: A prerequisite for the design and implementation of a multidimensional foreign policy is the full utilization of the diplomatic corps' potential both at the staff level and on a day-to-day basis.
The formulation and exercise of foreign policy without transparent procedures, with limited parliamentary control, with the sidelining of the diplomatic corps and the use of external special advisors, i.e. the regime that was successively formed in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs by the ministers and prime ministers of the past years, must be abolished.
Today it is urgent to exhaust every possibility to prevent a new war in the Middle East under the pretext of Iran's nuclear programme.
Greece in particular is at risk of being involved, directly or indirectly, in a possible attack against Iran or against countries of the Arab world, with the military cooperation pact with Israel, but also with the use of the Souda base by NATO.
Both of these possibilities of involvement should therefore be abolished.
3. We are categorically opposed to the so-called "humanitarian wars" and "wars for democracy", and we will refuse any participation of our country in a possible intervention in Syria.
4. At the top of our foreign policy priorities is the resolution of the Cyprus problem on the basis of UN resolutions.
For the end of the occupation and the reunification of the island within the framework of a bicommunal-bi-zonal federation with one citizenship, one sovereignty, one international personality.
For a Cyprus without foreign armies and foreign bases.
It is the firm position of SYRIZA-EKM that Greece has an inalienable right to declare an EEZ and to exploit its undersea wealth, based on international law and the Convention on the Law of the Sea.
In order to secure this right and the delimitation of the Greek EEZ, the necessary procedures for the signing of bilateral agreements with the neighbouring countries concerned need to be initiated.
We believe that the new NATO doctrine and the plan for the so-called "anti-missile shield" increases the risk of war, especially in our region.
Greece must cooperate with other countries to prevent the implementation of these plans.
We will seek the immediate withdrawal of the Greek force from Afghanistan, as well as from other NATO or EU military missions.
Our strategic position on the need to disengage from NATO remains firm and irrevocable.
We are aware of the difficulties of this pursuit. But we believe that international developments will confirm the correctness of our position.
Greek-Turkish relations are at a critical juncture.
Turkey seeks to become the hegemonic power in the region, competing with Israel.
The tensions and challenges to our national sovereignty and territorial integrity are daily and constant.
Initiatives are needed to resolve the Greek-Turkish disputes through dialogue on the basis of international law and mutual respect for national sovereignty and the inviolability of borders, as well as the development of good neighbourly relations and multifaceted cooperation.
8. In addition to our total and unequivocal opposition to the Greece-Israel military cooperation agreement, which satellites our country, we must work effectively to cancel this agreement so that our country does not become directly or indirectly involved in a possible war with Iran and in the Arab world.
We demand the promotion of an actively peaceful Balkan policy, far from war options and nationalist hatreds, insisting on the inviolability of borders and full respect for human rights in all countries, regardless of race, origin and religion.
We oppose the recognition of the illegal unilateral independence of Kosovo.
We support the development of inter-Balkan cooperation on the basis of a Balkan co-development project, aiming at a future of solidarity for the peoples of the region.
We are promoting the idea of a Balkan Ecological Charter.
We are working steadily for a mutually acceptable solution to the dispute over the name of FYROM in the UN framework, a solution of a composite name with a geographic designation for all uses.
We reject nationalist tensions on either side of the border and support a multifaceted approach, cooperation and confidence-building with the neighbouring country on the basis of international law and the inviolability of borders.
The peaceful coexistence of the peoples living in historic Palestine, Israelis and Palestinians, can only be guaranteed today by the existence of two equal and independent states, Israel and Palestine.
For this to happen, the relevant UN resolutions must be implemented, Israeli troops must be withdrawn from the occupied Palestinian territories and the Syrian and Lebanese territories it occupies, a Palestinian state must be established on the borders that existed before the 1967 war, with East Jerusalem as its capital, and Gaza must be liberated.
We will also support the development of Greek-Israeli and Greek-Palestinian relations in trade, science, research, culture and tourism.
12. In the unstable international environment, where the increasingly heated rivalries lead to the formation of centres of power outside the rules of international legitimacy, it is necessary to claim the restoration and strengthening of the UN as the leading centre of international legitimacy, unity and balance.
In this direction, Greek foreign policy can seek alliances with countries from all over the world, but also with neighbouring countries, which, like Greece, are destabilized by multipolarity.
The fact that the credibility of the UN has been undermined and shaken, not only does not diminish, but on the contrary strengthens the dynamics of such an option.
It can make our country at least a regional protagonist of positive changes in international and transnational relations, act as a shield to protect our independence and prevent our involvement in dangerous heteronomous rivalries.
II. For Defence and the Armed Forces
The policy of SYRIZA-EKM is based on the principle of the continuous effort for the peaceful resolution of disputes and the exclusion of the use of violence or the threat of violence.
Our constant aim is to reduce armaments both in the region of South-Eastern Europe and the Eastern Mediterranean in particular, and at the European level in general.
We believe that military alliances, such as NATO, militarise international relations and increase, rather than reduce, the risk of war.
For Europe, we seek to replace NATO and the common military structures of the European Union with a European Security System based on the principles of confidence building, control and arms reduction.
We also seek to replace the European Defence Agency with a European Arms Reduction Agency, so that the European Union can lead the way in peace policy.
2. The structure, layout and equipment of the Greek Armed Forces must be reviewed with a view to disengaging from NATO plans, avoiding any involvement in international conflicts that do not affect the territorial integrity and independence of Greece, abolishing the so-called "arms diplomacy" and increasing defence and deterrent power at the least possible cost. | These objectives require:
- The implementation of the principle "no unit of the National Defence Forces on a military mission outside the borders".
- The cessation of military cooperation with the aggressive state of Israel.
- Organisational restructuring by strengthening interdisciplinarity at strategic and operational level, drastically reducing non-operational units and cutting red tape, as well as reducing unnecessary operational costs not related to staff salaries.
- The redesign of the arms programmes with principles:
Increasing the availability of existing systems.
The procurement procedures, mainly through tendering procedures, and ensuring support for the total lifetime of each system.
Ensuring cooperation with the maximum possible participation of the Greek Defence Industry, which should be based on publicly owned units and under public control with continuous improvement of its technological capabilities. -
The upgrading and utilisation of the Armed Forces' personnel with a
new institutional framework for hierarchy, promotions, assignments and transfers based on objective criteria and evaluation.
The review of the training programmes and the framework of operation of military schools of all levels, in order to ensure the adaptation to modern scientific achievements and the combination of sound military education with training in academic subjects necessary for the fulfilment of the mission of the members of the Armed Forces, as well as the democratisation and the abolition of militaristic residues in the schools.
The reorganisation of the building organisations in order to rapidly resolve the issue of staff housing. -
The protection of the rights of Armed Forces personnel, by
revising the Military Penal Code, so that the jurisdiction of military courts is limited to purely military offences.
Democratic review of the administrative penalty system.
Change the legal and regulatory framework of the operation of the National Defence Forces, so that the rights and obligations of conscripts and conscripts are harmonised with the requirements of the Constitution and the recommendations of the Ombudsman and Amnesty International.
Support for trade unionism in the Armed Forces within the framework of European rules and the Constitution.
Care for human resources and their needs, at all levels and in all sectors, within the framework of the welfare state and the rule of law.
Reversal of the memorandum laws that have impoverished socially, economically and pension-wise the active and retired.
III. For the Hellenism of the Diaspora
For the Hellenism of the Diaspora, a progressive policy of organic integration into the long-term plans for the democratic development of our country is required.
SYRIZA-EKM believes that a national policy for Hellenism in the Diaspora should aim at:- Strengthening its presence abroad.
- To institutionalize its organic relations with Greece.
- The smooth reintegration of returning Greeks into Greek society.
- A necessary condition for the planning and implementation of this policy is the functioning of the General Secretariat of the Greek State as the main executive body of the State.
- We support the primary and secondary organs (communities and federations) as well as the S.A.E., if it develops its primarily assertive character.
No to the fragmentation and fragmentation of the organized expressions of Hellenism in the Diaspora.
- We say YES to the right to vote under certain conditions that will guarantee this democratic right in the host countries.
- We believe that a stable education policy for the children of Greeks abroad is necessary, which can be flexibly adapted to the educational conditions of each country.
We prioritise the development of a cultural policy of communication, interaction and creation among expatriates.
CULTURE
Culture is a source of wealth.
Not only artistic and intellectual wealth - and in this sense a common (public) good protected by the state - but also a source of economic wealth, based on the promotion and promotion of cultural heritage and contemporary artistic and intellectual production in our country.
Culture can participate in the construction of a new model of development, which contributes to the education and culture of society, centrally and decentrally, and distributes the value produced to a wider social base.
The examples of European cities such as Lille, Valenciennes, Betune, Lens, Metz, Saint-Etienne, Avignon - to mention only France and modern culture - that have given life to economically and demographically dead cities in the periphery through investment in culture are typical.
But also the success of Greek institutions, which support through international cultural events smaller cities of the region, is a reference point (Short Film Festival - Drama, Dance Festival - Kalamata).
Not only is culture not superfluous and a "luxury expense", doomed to become competitive in order to survive, but on the contrary it is a source of development and tangible wealth for society as a whole.
The social dimension of culture refers not only to the relationship between artistic and intellectual work and society, but also to the common artistic and intellectual education and entertainment of citizens, which the state must provide along with other equally valuable goods such as education and health.
The coexistence of culture and tourism in the same ministry clearly illustrates the utilitarian perception of culture as a support for an already bankrupt model of tourism development, which has squandered the natural environment and damaged old and modern monuments.
The coexistence of the two sectors in the same ministry expresses an outdated perception of culture (and tourism) and must be changed.
In order to achieve the above objectives, the state must support artistic and intellectual work and its creators, and protect and promote cultural heritage.
The policy of the Ministry of Culture and the supervised organisations must be put at the service of these objectives.
The structure of the services of the Ministry of Culture in the fields of contemporary culture is decisive for the effectiveness of the policy and reflects its basic principles.
The concentration of decisions, both on cultural guidelines and on specific applications, in the person of the Minister and a close staff of advisers, apart from the lack of transparency in the choices and the lack of any objectivity in the procedures, is irrational and inefficient.
The text drafted by a "Committee of Wise Men", on behalf of the outgoing Minister of Culture and Tourism, expresses the market spirit that had prevailed in the Ministry of Culture and Tourism and concerns the approach of culture as an "economic enterprise" or as an "action to be carried out".
Therefore, instead of upgrading the sectoral directorates to support the respective objects of arts and letters, the committee proposed a DGSP (General Directorate of Contemporary Culture) with 4 directorates, (Policy Implementation - Supervision, Management and Support - Artistic Education - Popular Culture and Intercultural Dialogue), unrelated to the specific objects of the Ministry of Culture.
The devaluation of culture, the inward management of culture in the past and the abdication of the obligations of the state today, in the name of neoliberal and postmodern views, such as that intellectuals and artists do not need protection because they are automatically turned into state-sponsored, all this has led to the complete lack of protection of the relevant professions and to starvation wages for the vast majority of cultural workers.
The logic that art is immaterial and does not need material remuneration refers to artists and writers as hobbyists or maecenas.
The protection of intellectual and artistic production must also be addressed in the context of the protection of copyright.
5. With regard to the cultural heritage sector, the most serious problems are: ∙ The inadequate institutional framework, both for the protection of monuments and for the operation of the Ministry itself. The various views on reforming the legislation are far removed from contemporary needs, and they are pervaded by a tendency to relax protection and an even greater concentration of powers in the political leadership of the Ministry.
∙ The dispersion of responsibilities between different bodies (Ministry of Environment, Regions, Church, various legal entities), which makes the work of protection more difficult, creates confusion for citizens and undermines the development of a strategy by a single body.
∙ The lack of qualified personnel in basic specialities, the irrational distribution of existing personnel at a national level and the "community service" programmes for unskilled personnel through NGOs, which weaken the work of protecting and promoting the monuments.
Of course, the Ministry of Culture and Tourism manages and protects cultural assets defensively, without information, initiatives and incentives for citizens to ensure broader consensus and participation of society.
Even more seriously, the way cultural heritage is managed, as formulated in the memorandum laws, subordinates it to fast track procedures of de-protection and privatisation, to the benefit of big business interests.
An important problem is the absence of land policy and an appropriate accompanying institutional framework, resulting in intense controversy, social problems and interference with the physiognomy of the natural and built environment.
The perception that the work of saving and enhancing archaeological sites and monuments is in conflict with urban development and the modern economic and social needs of cities and settlements is outdated.
The international and Greek experience of well-known historical centres (Athens, Lavrio, Rhodes, Nafplio, etc.), which have contributed to the upgrading of the quality of life of the cities and at the same time to the revival of economic activities, is underestimated.
6.  In spite of the dire reality we have described, our country has developed modern cultural production and, of course, has a rich heritage of ancient and modern monuments.
In all areas of contemporary culture, letters and arts, a multifaceted activity and significant production is developing, in many cases of international scope, which is the best consul of Greece abroad.
It is also known that the services dealing with monuments have worked to promote cultural heritage under extremely adverse conditions, so that today a large number of archaeological excavations of world value can be visited.
Greece is full of historical monuments (ancient, Byzantine, modern, popular), whose promotion contributes to the identity of a place, to the familiarization of citizens with history and to the multilateral development of local communities.
According to SYRIZA/ECM's understanding, the role of the Ministry of Culture is supportive and not interventionist.
It forms institutions, material (funding) and immaterial conditions so that people of culture, letters and arts can engage in their professional work without any distraction and, at any rate, without the monstrous difficulties of today.
9.  Funding, support, promotion of culture The
budget of the Ministry of Culture is extremely low - 0.5% of the total budget.
SYRIZA/ECM considers it necessary to double this amount gradually, after the first period of halting the economic collapse and the humanitarian crisis.
However, direct economic measures to support society work indirectly in favour of culture.
The waste of the huge budget - we recall the "Zahopoulos scandal", similar to the arms scandal - on irrelevant bodies and on the salaries of a large number of consultants and agents will be stopped.
According to the basic principles of approaching culture as a source and economic wealth, there are institutions and actions that can be self-financing and generate revenues that will be transferred to the common fund for culture.
In the context of better management of resources, costly organisations, such as antiquities exhibitions abroad, which are a disincentive to visit Greece, will be reduced and/or abolished.
On the contrary, there will be organized promotion of Greek art groups in other countries, promotion of their work and strengthening their participation in international festivals and related events.
The absorption of Community funds is an extremely important issue.
Mainly through the 3rd CSF, the Archaeological Service implemented, through the self-aid method, high quality projects in an exemplary manner.
However, no operational programme for culture has been secured in the NSRF, so the resources for the promotion and protection of cultural heritage have been dramatically reduced.
Also, another blow to the funding of culture is the "haircut" of the reserves of the Fund for Archaeological Resources and Expropriation, due to the PSI process.
The financial assets of the TAFA were reduced from €30 million to €9 million, with serious consequences for the Ministry of Culture's work on cultural heritage.
SYRIZA/ECM will proceed to replenish this money.
In any case, all revenues of the TAFA should be allocated to projects for the protection and enhancement of cultural heritage.
An indirect but highly effective way of financing culture is to support the production of cultural works, as well as their promotion and distribution.
All inactive or underused buildings of the Ministry of Culture, as well as a large number of closed and open public and municipal spaces, can be made available for artistic activities.
Public studios can also be set up to record music, support film production and artistic activities in general.
Archaeological sites, museums, galleries, etc. are understaffed.
It is a poorly conceived economy, not only in terms of attracting Greek and foreign audiences but also in terms of revenue.
These spaces should operate full-time and be available for multiple cultural activities.
Economic policy can be pursued through the level of VAT for activities related to the literary and artistic fields.
The operation of the various sectors of the Ministry of Culture and the organisations supervised by it should be supported by permanent staff with specific qualifications and skills.
The horizontal cuts in the Ministry of Culture were disastrous, as highly qualified staff left and extremely valuable and necessary accumulated knowledge and experience was lost.
Grant procedures for artistic groups or producers must be transparent, with publicity of the calls and criteria, which must remain unchanged throughout the call and the judging process. Transparency and objective selection criteria should also apply to auditions for state and municipal theatres, the National Opera, etc.
9. Cultural heritage
The main axes of SYRIZA/ECM's policy are: ∙ Ensuring the public and public benefit character of the protection of cultural heritage.
The role of the state in the design and implementation of a cultural policy is both irreplaceable and necessary, since the majority of monuments of the past are (and must continue to be) common public property.
The state creates and supports the necessary infrastructure of a broad network for the protection, promotion and promotion of cultural goods and ensures an organised framework through which they are made accessible to society.
The citizen is at the centre of state intervention and therefore cultural heritage must be preserved and highlighted in such a way that its presence is integrated into everyday life as an organic element of its existence and functioning.
∙ Ensuring the integrated nature of the protection of cultural heritage.
The removal of all overlaps with other ministries and bodies and the abolition of Legal Entities that divert object and resources from the respective services of the Ministry of Culture and contribute to the reproduction of the party and client state.
This process will not, of course, aim at the violent shrinkage of state structures and the removal of staff, as is currently being attempted with the proposed Agency, but at improving the operation of services and more effective service to citizens.
∙ Codification of legislation and simplification of control and authorisation procedures which often confuse and confound citizens.
∙ The development of new technologies and the planned use of information technology to enhance the public and social character of the services of the Ministry of Culture and Education in order to better serve citizens (relations with administrative services, council decisions, provision of services to museums), while at the same time safeguarding the security of monuments and the protection of intellectual property rights.
∙ The meritocratic and transparent staffing of the collective bodies (Central Archaeological Council, Museum Council, Central Council of Modern Monuments, Local Councils) and their transformation from consultative to decision-making and independent bodies to prevent governmental and party arbitrary actions and the serving of large private interests.
In this context, the participation of workers' representatives in their composition is a guarantee of transparency in their operation.
∙ The institutional, organisational and technological armouring of the services of the Ministry of Culture and Tourism in order to combat the illegal trafficking of antiquities and the fight against antiquities theft.
10.  Literature and ArtsThe sectoral Central Service Units under the General Directorate for Contemporary Culture (Literature, Theatre and Dance, Music, Visual Arts, Cinema and Audiovisual Media, Cultural Activities) should be maintained and strengthened.
There are 59 supervised organisations (Public Services, Public Legal Entities, Private Legal Entities) and a thorough study of their relationship with the Ministry of Culture and the role it can play in supporting them by category (e.g. museums) is needed, i.e. a rationalisation of the supervision, character and operation of each organisation.
We will only refer to some supervised organisations in the context of the sectoral units approach.
Department of Letters - Book
There is no funding for books, the market is down 40% and most publishers are in debt.
Moreover, book sectors, such as poetry, are being tested as they are subjected solely to market demand.
The percentage of translated books has fallen from 40% to less than 35% - because they are more expensive to publish - resulting in greater unemployment in the translator's field.
An equally important problem is the discontinuation of the subsidy for university books, with the result that many small publishing houses are languishing.
The book is under great pressure from the internet, because e-reading is displacing the printed book and because many texts circulate freely on the internet. The issue here is to safeguard the rights of authors and all those involved in the production of books.
∙ Creating legislation concerning publishers, authors and the relations between them, which must be defined in a uniform way in order to safeguard authors' rights.
∙ To safeguard the professions involved in publishing and the rights deriving from it.
Until now, books have been published in the majority of cases by starving workers, who are forced to work selflessly in the name of "art" and quality of publications.
∙ Encourage publishers to absorb European translation funding programmes.
∙ The NCSF should be upgraded and contribute to the support and promotion of books in Greece and internationally.
It should not be limited to the organisation of exhibitions or secondary activities: network of reading clubs, books, etc.
Redefining its role to act as a coordinating - interventionist central body, which will electronically link cultural activities throughout the country, libraries, inform about conferences, etc.
Theatre Department
∙ National Theatre - State Theatre of Northern Greece
Strengthening cultural diversity. Support and contact with wider social strata who are entitled to communication with the theatrical event as an essential public good.
State-run stages open to all aesthetic currents and a rotation of artists who "interrupt" them and without the monarchy of the director. ∙
Municipal Regional Theatres
This is a useful institution that can revitalise the theatre in the region.
It operates under a 1983 legal framework, has been completely discredited by the central authority and exists almost only "on paper".
What is required, therefore, is a complete overhaul of the institution, with a new legal framework and a new creative breath, freedom from party dependence and connection with the relevant municipalities and regions, in cooperation with the Ministry of Culture and Education for the necessary division of responsibilities and obligations, so that it operates for the benefit of the theatrical public of the Greek region.
Broadening the artistic scope of the DIPETHEs so that the institution contributes to the dissemination of dance in the region ∙
Athens Festival
Open to different creative currents, ensuring pluralism through bodies that operate democratically and collectively in decision-making.
Expansion of the "Athens Festival" with international festivals of other arts.
This proposal is combined with the creation of the Hellenikon Metropolitan Park with high greenery and cultural uses in the open spaces and existing buildings to make Athens an attractive cultural destination throughout the year.
In order to support Greek creativity, it is necessary for a high percentage of Greek groups to participate in the Athens and Epidaurus Festivals.
The other stages can host new and experimental acts.
The institution of invitations is abolished while the ticket price is reduced so that there is revenue and low-income people are given the opportunity to enjoy culture.
Special allowances for the unemployed and vulnerable groups are introduced, while the performance allowance for artists is returned. ∙
Epidaurus Festival
Its character as a festival of research and promotion of ancient drama is strengthened. ∙
Thematic cultural actions
These concern youth music - dance and theatre festivals, folk theatre meetings, one-man festivals, etc. ∙ Support for the
Theatre Museum ∙ Support for the
Centre for Ancient Drama ∙
Support for the House of the Actor ∙
Support for theatre groups created by vulnerable social groups that are already doing exemplary work.
∙ Theatre in prisons
Dance Department
∙ Establishment of grants for contemporary dance groups, a key lever for the development of dance in our country.
∙ Recognition of historical and emerging groups through support for them to follow in their proven footsteps.
∙ Creating presentation frameworks for all young artists in coordination with existing choreographers' and dancers' associations.
∙ Collaborate with state television to create a viewing and buying zone for performances of Greek dance groups.
∙ Exploitation of the research work of the Centre for Theatre and Dance.
∙ Maintaining and strengthening the successful dance festivals of Kalamata and Athens. Orientation towards their creative and social character.
A key element of their programming should be the collaborations - co-productions of foreign artists or institutions with Greek artists and the transfer of performances abroad.
Music Department
∙ Encourage and fund small traditional jazz ensembles that have already demonstrated musical activity and which will also perform in the region to revitalise local cultural life, especially during the winter period.
The musical events will be organised in cooperation with municipalities, local cultural associations and institutions, as well as with selected schools.
∙ All organisations funded by the Ministry of Culture have an obligation to support Greek creativity.
In particular, the ELS can broaden its scope in the fields of vocal music, song cycles, musical theatre of various forms, as well as in the fields of contemporary dance.
∙ State-owned and subsidised orchestras and choirs will be strengthened and Greek creativity will be encouraged, both by presenting Greek works and by special commissions.
Part of their activities are tours in the region and cooperation with ERT for productions to be broadcast on a regular basis.
Especially for the Athens and Thessaloniki State Orchestras, the institution of Sunday concerts should be reintroduced on public television.
∙ Upgrading of ERT Music Ensembles.
Film sector
∙ The planned measures of financial support for film producers through the refund of the special tax will be implemented immediately and the amounts withheld improperly by the Ministry of Finance will be refunded.
The funding of Greek films is ensured through the special tax on each ticket, which is deposited at the Greek Film Centre.
∙ A mechanism will be put in place for the tax exemption of sums invested in Greek films by private individuals.
∙ A change in the operating framework of the CySEC, in line with the corresponding European and other model centres (France, Australia).
∙ The CySEC will announce its financial programmes so that it can begin to operate effectively.
At the same time, it will ensure the repayment of its debts towards the productions of previous years.
∙ The restructuring of CySEC will proceed with the aim of reducing unproductive and operating costs and favouritism.
∙ The law 'On the development of cinema' will be amended to support filmmakers.
∙ The Thessaloniki Film Festival will showcase and promote Greek cinema. ∙ A
1.5% TV licence fee for Greek cinema ∙
A special programme for medium budget films (up to 200.000€) ∙
A change in the legislation to allow the CySEC to be an exclusive producer in cooperation with the director.
Department of Visual Arts
∙ Multiplication of the spaces where the visual arts are currently exhibited through the creation of a network of Municipal Galleries throughout the country, which have a dual role: the development through local government of culture in the periphery (in small towns and deprived areas of large cities) and the financial support of active artists through organised exhibitions.
The Network of Municipal Galleries can gradually acquire a relationship with the galleries, for the promotion and distribution of artworks.
An important support to artists is the purchase of artworks by public institutions of education, health, municipalities, etc. when financially possible.
∙ All members of the Chamber of Fine Arts are eligible to participate in public competitions.
∙ Selection of directors of public museums and galleries not through ministerial appointments but through transparent procedures, international competitions and meritocratic criteria.
∙ Defined terms of office for museum and gallery directors in order to avoid feudal structures and attitudes.
∙ All management committees in the visual arts sector to be made up of elected artists, mainly people of letters and arts, with limited terms of office.
∙ Graduate students of the Schools of Fine Arts and related schools may be utilized, on a voluntary basis or for a small fee, to address the needs of the country's artistic institutions and also work with municipalities and regions on specific projects.
∙ Utilisation of the Greek House at the Giardini in Venice as well as the Institute of Byzantine Studies in Venice - which should be placed under the Ministry of Education - for the promotion of Greece abroad, without the current financial waste.
11. Mass Media
The Mass Media are part of the Ministry of Culture.
Exclusively for the information sector, a joint secretariat may be set up with the relevant ministry.
The public media are not state-owned, are supervised by the Ministry of Culture and enjoy full autonomy in the implementation of their objectives, within the framework of general policy guidelines.
∙ Public Television Independence from central authority and strengthening of its role, with the aim of providing objective information, social reporting, scientific programmes and to become a focus of cultural education and quality entertainment for all social and age groups (creation of programme zones and thematic diversification/modernisation of programmes).
Strengthening Greek production with emphasis on fiction (series and TV films) and Greek documentaries. Also children's Greek fiction and cartoons.
Commitment of a specific amount from the special fee for the production of Greek programming.
Commissioning of producers through a competitive tender, with full transparency, clear and specific notices.
∙ Private televisionFrequencies are a public good and their use must be subject to operating rules.
Immediate payment of accrued wages to workers and suspension of dismissals.
Upgrading the programme
Instead of a 20% angel tax, which makes no sense when advertising has been reduced too much, this percentage should be paid for the production of original Greek fiction, aiming not only to employ artists and related professions, but also to provide quality programming for the public.
∙ Public RadioPublic (not state) radio will restore its credibility.
It will operate with autonomy as a means of communication, with the application of an ethics similar to that which determines the operation of renowned international radio stations (e.g. BBC) and with transparent methods of selecting its collaborators, so that they can creatively use speech and music, i.e. the basic components of radio production.
Only in this way will this great communication medium be able to serve the triptych of information - education - entertainment, which defines the structure and function of any good radio station.
12. Education of artists Cultural education of citizens
∙ The following higher schools of arts already operate in Greece:School of Fine Arts AUTH (Department of Visual and Applied Arts, Department of Music Studies, Department of Theatre, Department of Cinema), Athens School of Fine Arts (Department of Visual Arts, Department of Art Theory and History of Art), Department of Music Studies of Ionian University, Department of Music Studies of EKPA, Department of Theatre Studies of the University of Athens, Department of Theatre Studies of the University of Patras, Department of Theatre Studies of the University of Peloponnese, Department of Cultural Technology and Communication (Syros), Department of Plastic Arts and Art Sciences (Ioannina), Department of Foreign Languages, Translation and Interpretation of the Ionian University.
An Arts Academy at the Higher Education level is also proposed.
The current landscape is completed by the State Conservatories of Athens (proposed to become an Academy) and Thessaloniki, the State School of Orchestral Art of Thessaloniki, the State School of Dance (proposed to become a Higher School), the drama schools and the film schools.
∙ It is necessary to reorganise the whole of the artistic education provided, both higher and non-higher, taking into account the specific tradition and character of each of the current schools, as well as the need to strengthen higher-level artistic studies, which are lagging behind theoretical and historical studies, at least in certain areas (theatre, cinema).
Grading of the degrees of the Drama Schools.
∙ The public that has access to and enjoys cultural goods is limited.
For example, 1 in 2 people do not come into contact with books.
50% read 1-8 books a year, but if we take into account the titles, the picture is worse, we are below the Western European level.
Also, many artistic performances have large crowds but the audiences are cyclical.
It is therefore a matter of top priority to provide artistic education and cultural education to the general public.
A key prerequisite is the restoration of the National Library and the networks of municipal and school libraries.
Also, the already rich library and video library of the State Dance School needs to be adequately staffed to make it accessible to the general public.
Arts education must be expanded and renewed at all levels of education, in fruitful forms, such as theatrical play - a means of familiarising children with the performing arts, but also of socialising, entertaining and learning.
Measures for immediate implementation are: the presence of authors in schools and the relationship between children and the reading of whole books and not just extracts, as provided for in the curriculum, the creation of theatre groups, student orchestras and choirs.
Support for music high schools and art high schools is also a priority.
An important contribution to public participation in culture, direct involvement and self-activity, is provided by the special sectors of municipalities and regions, in the framework of which amateur artists and amateur artistic groups can be supported.
13. Professional registration of artists
The professions of artists are for the vast majority without security (work, security, pension).
Unemployed artists and writers/translators/editors are not counted in the unemployment rates, are not entitled to unemployment benefits and are the last to be paid when a company goes out of business (e.g. Hellenic Grams, IMAKO).
SYRIZA/ECM supports the following demands: ∙ Abolition of the 500 € charge on service vouchers ∙
Calculation of the IKA stamps for the renewal of the health booklet within five years.
∙ Abolition of VAT for the entire artistic sector.
∙ Special code in the tax office for artists (to stop being considered freelancers).
∙ Comprehensive solution to the pension problem of artists.
∙ Solving the problem of the grading of drama schools, so that actors with degrees can gain work access to training.
∙ Recognition of the artistic educational experience of dance artists in their relations with the state and the ministries of education and culture.
In the context of its general labour policy, SYRIZA/ECM restores the unemployment benefit for all categories of professions at the level of 480 € and for twice as long.
It also abolishes for small and middle incomes the taxes imposed in recent months.
PROGRAMME ITEMS FOR THE ENVIRONMENT AND QUALITY OF LIFE
1.  The ecological approach to social production and the development process, in accordance with a strategy of a symbiotic approach between man and nature and other living beings, is an overarching project of SYRIZA/ECM policy.
Halting climate change must be a criterion for all human activity.
SYRIZA/ECM, together with other left-wing parties and ecological movements in Europe and internationally, is demanding an ambitious, fair and binding agreement to fight climate change with a 40% reduction in carbon emissions. An agreement that can meet the needs of the peoples of the world and respond to the ecological and social crisis.
Carbon markets and other market mechanisms presented as attempts to create market values for the carbon saved or stored are not only ineffective in reducing emissions but also reinforce unequal power relations between richer and poorer countries.
The aim should be to achieve a net reduction in carbon emissions, mainly through adaptation and mitigation measures, not through the creation of new speculative markets.
The international forces of capital and the market, by plundering natural resources and the environment, are destroying the conditions of survival of millions of people and the planet itself.
From the previous era of anaemic environmental protection in Greece, we are being led, through the memoranda, the implementing laws and the coup d'état actions of the Papandreou and Papademos governments, to dramatic environmental destruction, the divestment of public property and the privatisation of basic common goods such as water and energy.
4. The dominant model of production and consumption, under conditions of extreme neoliberalism, fails to meet the basic needs of the vast social majority and needs to be radically changed.
Conservative forces and business groups promise investment and development on the ruins of society and nature.
Against the development based on the plundering of the environment and human labour, which leads at the same time to environmental destruction and starvation wages - abolition of labour and social rights, SYRIZA/ECM opposes a radically different productive, social and ecological development plan.
This plan is based on the local productive forces and resources of each region, seeks balance and synergy between the three production sectors, preserves the environment and allows the value produced to be distributed to the entire population.
For example, we are not siting wind turbines in protected areas and on a scale imposed by business interests, but instead we will develop a new spatial plan for RES and activate domestic industrial units - e.g. the Skaramanga shipyards - for their construction.
5. A basic precondition for an ecological exit policy from the crisis is the repeal or revision of the laws passed by the memorandum governments.
SYRIZA/ECM supports the repeal of the entire network of environmentally destructive laws and those that divest public property and public land in general.
Specifically with regard to the laws related to the Memorandum :∙ Repeal of Law no. 3986/2011 (implementing the medium-term programme) which establishes a "private property fund", through which all the country's wealth is being sold: public utilities, public real estate, mining rights, etc.
Along with private property, the state's public property (the coastline, forests, archaeological sites, caves, caves, eco-development areas, etc.), which under the Constitution is inalienable, is also being sold off.
∙ Abolition of all kinds of neoliberal private public companies which sell off public property (KED, ETA S.A. etc.) and the relevant legislation.
∙ Restoration of the property rights of the Greek state over its real and non-real property. Theproperties that fall under public ownership and other ecologically sensitive areas are transferred to the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources ∙
Repeal of the provisions of Law No. 3986/2011 and Law 3894/2010 (known as fast track) that provide for the exploitation of public land in excess of environmental, spatial and archaeological legislation.
∙ Repeal of the provisions of Law no. 3986/2011, by which the coastal areas and beaches are granted for annexations for reconstruction (Dubai type).
∙ Abolition of the existing legislation on tourist residences (legislation on Eta S.A., Special Spatial Plan for Tourism under the Souflias ministry).
With this legislation, the last traces of the country's remaining natural and cultural capital are in danger of disappearing and the Spanish building model (real estate bubble), which has collapsed, will be transferred to our country.
∙ Repeal of the legislative regulation (Law 4062/2012) on the development of the former Elliniko airport.
With these regulations, an area of 6,204 hectares, which includes the former airport, the entire Elliniko beach from Alimos to Glyfada, as well as the seashore and the underwater area, is surrendered to wild development, as new extensive land reclamations are planned.
This land is granted to Greek or foreign private interests in order to build 3,760,000 sq.m. of buildings, 16 m. high, on the beach, with uses of tourist facilities, entertainment buildings, casinos, administrative and commercial buildings, residential buildings, etc.
In contrast to this policy, SYRIZA/ECM supports the creation of a Metropolitan Park of high green, cultural and sporting activities.
∙ Repeal of the legislative regulations (Law 4014/2011), which in essence bypass the environmental licensing, by assigning ex-post to private parties (assessment of EIA, approval of environmental conditions) and assigning regular environmental inspections to private auditors. ∙
Repeal of the legislative regulations (Law 4030/2011) which a) give the private sector control of building permits
b) hand over to large energy players, domestic and foreign, land of high
productivity, offshore wind farms, quarries, etc.
c) extend the possibility of building buildings in off-plan areas
d) allow the construction of sports and tourist facilities in forests and woodlands at a rate of 20%.
Abolition of the provisions of Law 4042/2012 that exempt from the obligation of environmental licensing (at the will of the minister of the day) waste recovery or disposal projects, including waste incineration plants.
Repeal of the fragmentary provisions of Law 4042/2012 and other laws that weaken the forest protection framework.
Repeal of the provisions of Law 4042/2012 that allow the exemption from the land levy for tourist facilities.
The movements for ecology, the natural and urban environment have raised, with integrated approaches and significant struggles, all the major issues that are programmatic priorities of SYRIZA/ECM.
The members of SYRIZA/ECM are part of these exemplary collectives, which established the ecological problematic in Greek society, overturned negative policies and won ecological positions in the conflict with power.
We will walk firmly together with the movements for the environment and ecology and will continue to fight together against the dominant economic and social interests, for the establishment of environmental law, the overthrow of the current production-consumption model and the balanced, environmentally compatible development for the benefit of the great social majority.
7. We briefly mention our positions in major thematic sections that constitute the programmatic foundations of SYRIZA/ECM.
7.1 Renewable energy sourcesEnergy is a common (public) good
The central objective of energy policy is to save energy and increase energy efficiency in all sectors - industry, agriculture, buildings, transport, transport, public transport, etc., resulting in an increase in domestic economic activity (retrofitting and maintenance of existing buildings, bioclimatic renovation of public spaces, solar panels, source separation, etc.), jobs and minimisation of environmental impacts.
Indicatively, we mention the following measures: an energy saving programme in all public buildings using NSRF resources, an incentive policy for private individuals, disincentives for large consumers, savings from street lighting and public spaces, premiums for dense public transport networks - especially those of fixed railways - promotion of fuel-saving means, direct implementation of recycling systems, a broad information and environmental education programme, mainly through schools, universities, local authorities and the media.
In addition to the above, SYRIZA/ECM is committed to developing a long-term energy planning programme for the reduction of fossil fuel production and greenhouse gas emissions, as well as for the penetration of renewable energy sources, aiming at the radical diversification of the energy model.
The main axes include: 1. Planning energy production, transmission and distribution at national level, following the main guidelines resulting from international agreements on climate change.
2. Ensuring the adequacy of supply of the Greek system as well as the security of transmission and operation of the energy system.
Ensuring the supply of energy to the entire population is a non-negotiable commitment of SYRIZA/ECM.
Sufficiency can be based on a mix of energy sources based on a long-term national plan, which will prioritise RES while taking into account the need to provide energy to all residents of the Greek territory at low prices, so that access to this common good is given and uninterrupted for all, with priority to the unemployed, low-income workers and small and medium-sized enterprises.
In particular, the issue of energy pricing for residential consumers should not be determined by markets but by social priorities.
Exploiting the technological and scientific potential of domestic institutions (universities, polytechnics, public institutions, research centres, public enterprises) and developing a long-term programme to create cadres for the public administration and local and regional government institutions, by repatriating young Greek scientists and technical staff from abroad.
The Greek scientific and technical community is in a position to develop a modern programme of productive reconstruction for energy and to provide a model for the whole of Europe.
Alliances at international level with universities, research centres and international organisations that have a leading edge in terms of know-how and experience in individual energy policy axes within and outside Europe, with the aim of transferring know-how and strengthening the productive reconstruction of the energy sector.
Individual trade agreements aimed at securing low prices for raw materials on the basis of a mutual economic cooperation agreement.
Energy planning needs to combine different scales of renewable energy development at national and local level.
In line with the guidelines for rural production and the strengthening of the productive fabric in the countryside, energy planning can include incentives for a national programme to activate the mobility of workers and unemployed people from urban centres to the periphery.
In this context, land use in the countryside will take into account the need to produce energy from RES, where possible depending on the specific characteristics of each individual geographical area, the need to manage and distribute the energy produced, initially at the local level, and at the same time the need to integrate all the individual decentralised production units into the national energy system.
At the same time, aiming at the implementation of the climate change targets and the ecological transformation of the Greek economy and productive activity, the long-term energy planning will include and take into account the needs of large-scale energy exchange with neighbouring countries as well as with the European energy transmission system of which it is a key and important hub.
Overall, a model of energy self-sufficiency, security and decentralised management is proposed:
rules are established for the location of RES with priority for the built environment (settlements, RES, buildings, urban environment) and with respect to the carrying capacity of ecosystems, the preservation of valuable natural resources such as water, forests, biodiversity, fertile land and landscape.
For the balanced and sustainable use of RES, measures will be taken such as:∙ Subsidies for the mass installation of small-scale RES, by self-producers (domestic consumers, farmers, livestock farmers, crafts, industries), cooperatives, local councils and municipalities, in order to meet local needs.
Indicative examples include: geothermal applications in buildings, installation of photovoltaic panels on the roofs of existing public and private buildings, small-scale renewable energy systems, energy recovery of biogas from clean biomass.
∙ Subsidies to local authorities for the creation of biogas plants from source-sorting systems for organic household waste, garden residues and agri-food residues, using NSRF funds.
∙ Cancellation of all interventions in forests.
∙ Setting a price for the occupation of public land and exploitation of resources (water, wind potential, land) by existing RES installations, to remedy the social and environmental impacts.
∙ Gradual reduction of the specific tariff for the purchase of electricity from private RES installations, with specific provision for small producers.
Research and development of alternative forms of renewable energy sources, technologies and local storage systems for energy produced by solar and wind systems.
∙ Cancellation of the Helios project, which is an option with high economic and technical precariousness, with up to 200 km ha of land committed.
∙ Development of a domestic industry for the production of renewable energy systems that are currently almost entirely imported.
In the context of our positions for sustainable rural development, we are opposed to large hydroelectric projects and the diversion of the Acheloos river.
It is obvious from all the above that SYRIZA/ECM is radically opposed to nuclear energy and will work internationally to stop its use.
7.2 Mining of minerals and ores
The mining of minerals and ores has in recent years been an example to avoid environmental depredation, economic devastation of local communities and the transfer of public wealth to big business.
Typical cases are Oiti (bauxite) and NE Chalkidiki (gold), where strong local movements highlighted all the dimensions of these interventions, which were euphemistically called developmental.
Mining causes enormous damage, due to its size and techniques, to the environment (forests, woodlands, protected areas, soil, air and water pollution), is dangerous to public health and competes with activities such as agriculture, fishing, tourism and others that constitute a sustainable development pattern for the whole local society.
Jobs are scarce and mining leaves, where it is done, skull and crossbones.
SYRIZA/ECM is committed to implementing the positions it has so far supported towards the local movements for these activities.
More generally, because there are many and varied deposits (and occurrences) of minerals, ores and energy fields in Greece, SYRIZA/ECM will set a framework for defining the cases where mining is allowed and the conditions that must be met in order to protect natural resources and the development of local communities.
With regard to hydrocarbons, which are presented in various circles as an immediate solution for the country's exit from the crisis, relevant options can only be discussed once a comprehensive plan of exploration (seismic surveys, drilling, etc.) and the necessary studies have been prepared and properly evaluated.
Any exploitation of the deposits, if they exist, requires the preparation of a national plan taking into account all the parameters: economic, geopolitical, energy, social and environmental.
The investigation of the issue is the responsibility of the public and public scientific bodies, with social control and full transparency of the results.
7.3 Waste Management
The current impasse in waste management is the result of the degradation or non-existence of prevention, volume reduction and recycling policies, which is less than 10% overall in our country.
Municipal solid waste recycling, which is currently applied in up to 85-90% in many European cities, is the only appropriate solution that is environmentally friendly, safe from accident risks, socially beneficial, low cost and, at the same time, indicative of the civilisation of a society, especially in times of ecological and economic crisis.
SYRIZA/ECM rejects the privatization of waste management and the logic of a technical approach to the issue.
In particular, we reject incineration, either in the form of direct burning of mixed waste or in the form of burning of secondary fuels (RDF - SRF) after mechanical - biological treatment (e.g. bio-drying).
The privatisation of management requires the production of large volumes of waste, is contrary to recycling, harmful to the environment and public health and has a high economic cost (estimated at five times the current level) for citizens.
SYRIZA/ECM supports Decentralized Integrated Waste Management Services and the planning of the whole process by the elected regional bodies for the infrastructure and operations at the regional level, and by the municipalities for the respective municipal infrastructure and operations.
In this context, it is necessary to review regional planning and to stop the tendering of PPP projects - such as the 4 treatment plants in Attica - that are not compatible with the strategic option of recycling.
Local authorities will be supported with all the necessary, low-cost and high-efficiency infrastructure, in order to proceed with integrated recycling processes with the participation of local communities, educational institutions and movements that practically apply the above principles and contribute to civic education.
7.4 Spatial and urban planning New Building Regulation
The productive, economic and social reconstruction of the country cannot be understood independently of the geography of the places in which it takes place, and is developed in the context of the regulation of space at multiple levels.
The generalised deregulation or regulation of space to ensure freedom of movement for big capital has been a key component of the memorandum policy, violating the basic principles of balanced development and environmental protection.
It was reflected in laws, which we have already mentioned, and others with more specific content.
The General Spatial Plan under Souflias' ministry expresses and institutionalises the structural economic, social and environmental pathologies of the Greek development model, the over-centralisation of the Attica region and the inequality of the productive sectors.
It reinforces the policy of major roads - major projects and the tourism of hotels with thousands of beds, with disastrous consequences for the environment and local communities.
SYRIZA/ECM will repeal the law of the General Spatial Plan and the laws concerning the Special Spatial Plans for Tourism, RES and Industry.
It will strengthen the competent services of the Ministry of Environment, Regions and Municipalities to implement, revise or develop new plans for the regulation of space at various levels, in the context of a way out of the crisis through productive and social reconstruction.
SYRIZA/ECM will abolish the New Building Regulation, which promotes options for "clearing" the existing housing stock, i.e. wasting resources, instead of extensive redevelopments with the activation of inactive historical and modern buildings, which upgrade the urban space both environmentally and in terms of social infrastructure.
The construction of skyscraper buildings constitutes a paradigm shift in terms of the multifunctional identity of the urban fabric and the spatial cohesion of Greek cities.
It strengthens the big construction companies and oligopolistic schemes at the expense of a multitude of professions, self-employed and small businesses working in the construction and building sector, which are currently plagued by unemployment and underemployment.
The New Building Regulation is both harmful to the environment and classist, as it disproportionately penalizes large properties with a building factor, photographing real estate companies.
7.5 Forests
The successive efforts of the PASOK and ND governments for a constitutional revision of Article 24 and the continuous changes in the forestry legislation destabilize and make the institutional framework for the protection of forests and forest land more unfavourable.
Major threats to forests include fires and desertification (10-15%), linked to climate change, and illegal logging.
The forest is a common (public) good, with the highest ecological value, an agent of climate change mitigation and at the same time a development resource for local communities, within management frameworks compatible with its protection (ecotourism, logging, etc.).
SYRIZA/ECM will move towards a definition of the forest and a clear legislative framework that will guarantee its protection.
The main forest policy body is the Forest Service - which is responsible for the development, management and protection of forests.
Today, the Forest Service is discredited.
In order to fulfil its important role in the future, it needs to be reinforced with staff, material resources and technology to protect forests from arson and encroachment.
In order to prevent and suppress fires, cooperation between the forestry service, the fire brigade and local authorities is necessary.
SYRIZA/ECM is committed to proceed with the adoption of the stagnating forest maps and to complete them in the whole country, as well as a forest inventory, with the forestry service as the body.
7.6 Social, cultural infrastructure and environmental upgrading projects
These are projects that support the welfare state, mainly on a small scale (nurseries, restoration of monuments, etc.), urban renewal projects that upgrade the quality and environment of the residential environment, projects related to culture (e.g. museums, large archaeological parks) and large projects, such as the railway network, i.e. projects with direct social benefit and jobs during their construction and operation.
Designers can be municipalities, regions and the public sector and can be implemented by self-contracting or by small/medium technical enterprises.
These projects are funded by the public investment programme and European funding (NSRF).
For example, in the NSRF, which only concerns projects in Attica, the resources are 2.868.000 € and with the national participation, which is very facilitated, they reach about 4 billion.
However, the involvement of the banking sector, through letters of guarantee and/or loans to small businesses, has so far had negative effects on the absorption of funds, as banks are only interested in large enterprises and no social criteria (e.g. jobs) are applied in supporting an investment.
SYRIZA/ECM, through the control of the banking system, will activate all Community programmes for the production of socially necessary projects that enhance employment.
7.7 Water as a common (public) good
The assumption that water is not a commodity and a financial asset in the context of the "green economy" but a common good, collectively owned by the Greek people and a fundamental human right, must be constitutionally enshrined on the basis of UN Resolution 64/292.
The ownership, management and control of water services and infrastructure must be public, non-profit and participatory, with the participation of workers and other associations representing citizen-users.
SYRIZA will cancel the provisions of Memorandum 2 for the privatization of water services in Athens and Thessaloniki.
The principle of "full cost recovery" for financing integrated water services must be overcome, returning responsibility for access to water to society as a whole.
The provision of funds for investment in specific infrastructure projects should be taken care of by general taxation and controlled by society.
Particularly critical is the exploitation of natural underground reserves by private companies, which have in fact made large increases in the quantities pumped in recent years in order to secure pumping rights before the preparation of river basin and river basin management plans.
A rigorous review of all permits and measures to legislate to safeguard natural resources for future generations is needed.
Sustainable management practices are needed to protect the ecology of water cycles and improve the quality of water in rivers and aquifers, with the aim of making it "potentially potable".
This objective excludes pharaonic projects (dams, river diversions, etc.), which disrupt water cycles and irreversibly destroy the ecological balance. SYRIZA/ECM opposes the construction of new large hydroelectric projects/dams on the country's rivers, which it does not consider to be renewable energy sources, and the diversion of the Acheloos.
We support the transformation of agricultural production with less water-intensive practices and by financing smart rainwater harvesting and water use techniques that are adapted to local capacities and take into account traditional practices.
7.8 To respect and protect wildlife and biodiversity
Our understanding of animals and our knowledge of the sentience and complexity of the behaviour of the other living beings with whom we share the planet have led to a growing moral and political sensitivity to issues relating to the respect and protection of animals.
Respect, as a legal concept, derives from moral philosophy.
The Lisbon Treaty of the European Union recognises that all animals are "sentient beings who feel what surrounds them and are therefore capable of feeling pleasure and pain". It demands their full respect.
In a changing world in Greece and Europe, with developing moral sensitivities, it goes without saying that left ecological politics reflects new perceptions.
In recognition of all this, SYRIZA/ECM promotes a policy that will respect and protect animals, in the context of a more general progressive planning towards a sustainable and sustainable approach.
It is committed to enacting in the new Parliament the proposals it had already proposed in the previous one for the protection of stray, deserter and productive animals.
PROGRAMME OF SYRIZA - EPM For the overthrow of the memorandum and the radical reform of Physical Education and Sport
The Coalition of the Radical Left has formulated a comprehensive alternative programme for Physical Education and Sport since 2009.
For the left that thinks and acts in the logic of satisfying social needs and the fair distribution of the wealth produced, the project "sport for people and not for profits" rejects and overcomes the current neoliberal model of commercialised sport.
In contrast, it places the athlete and the athlete at the centre of attention and aims to highlight the socially positive functions of sport.
It defines the stakes as the redistribution of resources in radically different conceptual and social terms, the strengthening of social control, the prevalence of transparency and democratisation in operation.
At the same time, SYRIZA formulates the rules and basic axes of a different state policy in Greek sport and seeks to shape the conditions to put into practice the constitutional imperative for sport as a social right.
Athletes - athletes - spectators
In our view, a social good and the right of every citizen is to have equal opportunities for participation without discrimination in sport, in active involvement in sports and physical exercise where they live, study and work.
To have the right to make decisions.
Therefore, a central element of an alternative strategy for the development of this sport is the support of the three pillars: physical education and sport in education, local government actions and "sport for all", amateur competitive and club sport.
We have described in great detail the plan for the radical restructuring and the creation of a "Unified, Social and Democratic System of Physical Education and Sport" in our country, with clear political, social and human-centred characteristics.
A unified system because it must serve as a whole the philosophy of a sport for man, linking institutionally and organically in an organized and systematic operation and coordination of each individual sector.
Social system, because it must aim to create objective conditions for sports and infrastructure throughout the country, must be an integral part of the general social welfare policy, intersecting and linked with individual policies in the field of education, health and culture.
It should aim at the health of citizens, the formation of healthy lifestyle habits, the physical and intellectual development of the new generation, the formation of socially active citizens, but also the rational development of sports.
A democratic system, because it must provide equal opportunities for equal physical exercise and participation in sport for all social groups.
Because it must guarantee respect for the rights of athletes and sportsmen and sportswomen, the labour rights of workers in the sector, and democratically regulate the relations between the parties involved and the state and between them.
Because it must be socially sensitive, giving priority to the development of physical education and sport among the weakest and underprivileged groups of the population (children of large families, single-parent families, young mothers, citizens with disabilities, immigrants, unemployed, etc.).
Sporting spectacle
On the other hand, there is also the sport that people perceive as a spectacle.
The sports spectacle, while incorporating important, timeless, dramatic social functions and in some cases being the most characteristic, "living" popular event, in the conditions of capitalist globalisation and neoliberal hegemony, operates according to the standards of the global entertainment industry, with the aim of profit.
It reproduces hegemonic capitalist, nationalist and sexist models. It creates and giganticizes a system of labour and power relations defined by the production of a peculiar "sporting surplus value", in which an internationally structured state and private system of promotion and exploitation of the athlete from an early age, the athletic talent, participates.
Physical education and sport in Greece in the whirlwind of the economic crisis, the memorandum policies and the imposition of IMF prescriptions. Sport, as well as the sectors of education, health and social welfare, were among the first social goods to be targeted by the policies of the memorandum and in the forefront of the cuts.
Due to the dramatic reduction of resources, as well as as a result of the targeted and systematic dismantling of a number of institutional, welfare and organisational structures (e.g. dismemberment of the GSA and the competences of Ministries, abolition of physical education offices), sport today is on the verge of definitive devaluation and collapse:
Physical education and sport in education is a "blank letter". Sports high schools have been disbanded, physical education hours in pilot schools have been reduced, school competitions have been abolished
All the "sport for all" programmes and other sporting activities by local authorities have collapsed
The sports federations and amateur sports clubs are either led to a lockout or handed over to commercialization, demasculinized and without being freed from the timeless pathologies of club sport:
the lack of democracy and opacity in the operation, the alienation from social events, the clientelistic relations with the staff of the collapsing political system, the imitation of professional sport
At the same time, a rotting professional sports system is maintained, whose operation on the margins or outside of legality tends to become the norm.
A system that lives arbitrarily and at the same time with the consent of the ruling powers, ND and PASOK, continues to suck tens of millions of euros from the wealth of the Greek people and amateur sport.
In particular, the intertwined triangle "political system - professional football - sports media", despite the moral and economic crisis it has entered, continues to "serve each other" by poisoning Greek society.
It is a fertile field for the manipulation of races and the laundering of black money and a swimming pool for the rehabilitation of various political figures, businessmen and all kinds of jet-setters - speculators.
It is also a fertile field for doping, for the breeding of parastatal mechanisms, for the development of phenomena of dead-end social violence, the best pretext for the application of methods of generalised social repression.
Finally, as regards sport during the period of the IMF and the memoranda, we cannot fail to mention once again the disastrous contribution of the 2004 Olympic Games to the current economic crisis, through the plundering of the gross national product (official cost of 13.5 billion, i.e. more than 6% of GDP, not counting infrastructure projects, security costs, etc.) and the soaring public debt (from 145 billion euros to 201 billion euros in the three years 2001-2004).
Today, Greek society (and Greek sport) continues to pay and will continue to pay for a long time to come for the distorted and anti-growth logic imposed by the 2004 Olympics, for the benefit of market speculators.
We recall that among the Greek government bonds maturing in 2014, there are also the 10-year bonds of 2004 of 10 billion euros, from which the German, French and American companies involved in the Olympic Games projects were paid handsomely.
The sinful Siemens, the Kalatrava canopy, the expensive C4I security system and many useless, overpriced projects and sports facilities were paid for.
Some of these gold-plated facilities (especially those in Elliniko), while they are a place of attraction for citizens and are used by sports and other social institutions, are now in the eye of the hurricane of privatization and divestment in the name of debt repayment.
Key axes for the overall change in sport policy and individual programme objectives
We are creating a sports system whose effectiveness is judged mainly by the increase in the number of sportsmen and women in society as a whole, not just the number of athletes taking part in competitive activities or the number of medals won.
A sports system compatible with citizens' leisure time, with another ecological policy, part of a different model of residential development and serving the immediate needs of society.
We make absolutely clear the financial relationship between the state and sport.
We establish a separate budget for amateur sports from the state budget, a stable annual funding of amateur sports activities based on developmental logic (without the logic of "extraordinary" grants, opaque accounts and clientelism).
Subsidising sport as a social right is the obligation of the state, not of gambling.
We support sport in schools and universities, with modern, safe and accessible infrastructure for all.
We support sports actions by local government. We redistribute sports resources in favour of "sport for all" and amateur sport, with a clear definition of which resources are distributed, to which bodies, in what way and according to what objective and measurable criteria.
So that sports services and activities from public schools, local government and amateur clubs are provided free of charge and without charge to young people and their families.
We are creating a Single Payment Authority within the GSA, for the strict control of the revenues - expenses of national sports federations and financial transparency. National sports federations are granted Olympic - sports facilities to house their administrative services and to limit inelastic costs.
State subsidies to national sports federations are given on the basis of a system of objective criteria (grassroots development, massiveness, results), with strict control of the credibility of official competition events.
At the same time, the state fully assumes the financing of national sports federations for the preparation of national sports teams and the costs of participation in official, international sports competitions.
We cut off the national sports federations from the umbilical cord of commercialisation, the intensification for the hunt for medals in major sporting events.
Professional sport, as far as its financial functions are concerned, falls directly under the responsibilities of the Ministries of Finance and Commerce, the financial and other control mechanisms of the state and the control mechanisms of entertainment services.
No direct, nor indirect through amateur sports clubs, subsidies to sports limited companies are not allowed.
Full compliance with the tax and insurance obligations of the PAEs, as required of any public limited company.
We are amending Art. 879/79 and any other legislation on professional sports so that we give institutional rights to other collective forms of administration of sports groups to exist and participate in the major racing categories without the obligation to convert them into limited companies.
Any financial reward from the state to athletes under professional contracts with public sports companies is prohibited.
We are radically changing the institutional framework for sport.We are moving towards democratisation measures, the introduction of simple proportional representation as a permanent electoral system in all sports bodies of all levels, the opening and massification of sports clubs to support amateur sport.
We abolish any anachronistic provision that excludes and prevents citizens from participating in sports bodies.
We establish the limitation of the terms of office of the presidencies of national sports federations to two and the obligation to renew the Boards of Directors by 30% every two terms.
We are establishing direct democratic procedures, the sports assembly at the municipal level and representative sports councils at the regional level, in a completely different logic from the governmental advisory bodies appointed so far, such as the national sports policy council.
Establish regular reporting and control procedures and participatory budgeting in amateur sport.
Encourage the participation of women in the governing bodies of the entire sports structure.
We establish the participation of representatives of athletes and coaches in the governing bodies of sports bodies.
We define precisely the concept of "self-governance" in sport.
The state is responsible for the operation of control mechanisms, compliance with constitutional requirements, legality, national and European law (criminal and sporting) which takes precedence over the rules of international sports federations and the entertainment industry.
The state, through its Higher Education Institutions, is solely responsible for the scientific and pedagogical preparation of human resources in sport, their evaluation and the provision of certification of their ability to perform professional functions, mainly pedagogical and biomedical.
In particular, the appointment of the Board of Directors of the National Paralympic Committee by the government is abolished.
Henceforth, everyone, from the President to its members, shall be elected by its constituent bodies by an equal democratic electoral process and simple proportional representation.
National sports federations define the rules of their sport (election of governing bodies, sports justice, sporting regulations, refereeing, development programmes, etc.).
We establish a permanent Parliamentary Control Committee for transparency in sport and in particular in professional sport.
We are reorganizing the General Secretariat for Sports and redefining its role as an executive body for the planning and control of a different sports policy, with emphasis on the broader needs of sports and quality of life of Greek society and the development of the respective sports infrastructure.
We establish specific measurable and merit-based criteria.
We support a productive and efficient functioning of the GSA, with an increase in the resources necessary for this purpose.
We restore to the competence of the GGA both sports for the disabled and mass sports programmes. We directly recognize the Federation of Health Runners Associations, we create an intermunicipal body - federation of mass sports.
We are upgrading the respective sectors of mass and amateur sport, as well as the areas of programming - planning, research and specifications of the GGA. We ensure the operation of a single centre for the exercise of sports policy without overlapping roles and waste of public wealth.
We are expanding the Public Investment Programme in sport to create the necessary infrastructure, new amateur mass sports facilities and specialised sports facilities for the disabled.
We are reorganising offices for the development and coordination of physical education and sport at regional level.
We are upgrading and supporting sports research and technology, with a particular focus on sport for all and physical education in education.
We are upgrading the National Centre for Sports Research, creating incentives for all sports sciences and applications, while at the same time operating as a centre for sports documentation.
We upgrade the overall sports science and create serious infrastructure for the training of sports executives from the TEFAA, in the basic directions (pedagogy, coaching and sports administration).
We are upgrading the status of sports scientist.
The operation of experienced coaches is limited through very specific criteria and very strict conditions for the training and operation of coaching schools, under the responsibility of the TEFAA in cooperation with the EKAE.
In a first transitional stage, the CySEC and the TEFAA undertake the mandatory training of the administrations of sports federations and sports clubs.
We intervene and we radically change the term sports "agent", with all the negative characteristics that accompany it, by introducing mandatory training for those involved in sports academies, infrastructure departments, with the education and health of young athletes.
We create within the framework of the TEFAA, with the cooperation of sports federations, independent school of refereeing.
We highlight public sport, sport for all.
We support financially, scientifically and organizationally the local government bodies, so that with a parallel policy of mergers to support the sports clubs of their region, to maintain their sports facilities.
It is expressly prohibited any partnership of municipalities with sports joint stock companies or exclusive long-term concession of municipal sports facilities to joint stock sports companies at the expense of sports for citizens and mass sports programs.
We utilize the Olympic sports facilities by granting them to the local government along with the necessary resources to serve sports, cultural and other social activities, preventing their alienation.
We favour the creation of small municipal sports infrastructure suitable for sports in the neighbourhood.
We protect and strengthen the health of citizens through physical exercise and recreation activities, using every open space, in connection with the Primary Health Care system.
We strengthen sport for women, working mothers, for citizens with disabilities through systematic and organised sporting activities.
We develop solid policies for the social inclusion through sport of migrants, minorities, dependent and imprisoned citizens. We are reorganising sport-mental health programmes.
We emphasise specific policies to strengthen workplace sport, far from copying the terms of championship sport.
Strengthening sport in the Armed Forces.
We actively link physical education in education to health
In order to link physical education in education to the health of the young adult citizens of tomorrow, we highlight the biological importance of physical activity in school.
Physical education is a basic component of the educational process, a useful means of socialisation, psychological and moral integration of the young person and a main element of school activity.
Starting from pre-school-early childhood, up to higher education, we proceed with a series of interventions:
modernisation of physical education curricula, with emphasis on improving the physical and motor fitness of young people and scientific monitoring of their development.
reintegration of physical education into school life, with sufficient time in the timetable (at least 3 hours per week at all levels), filling the gaps in physical education teachers, medical coverage, monitoring by a sports doctor and preventive health checks for pupils.
establish alternative forms of physical education, linked to environmental education programmes, reorganise student sports clubs in the afternoons,
formulate a specific plan for linking with club sports, a scientific system for the promotion of sporting talent and the creation of a network of independent and upgraded sports schools
, link schools with sports facilities and establish the compulsory existence of an indoor gym in new school units.
We tackle doping
To address the problem, SYRIZA argues: Preventive policies, measures for the broad education of athletes and the development of prevention and information programmes in education.
harmonisation of sports legislation with public health law, medical code, import, trade and trafficking of pharmaceuticals.
creation of an independent non-governmental anti-doping body, controlled by the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Control and Transparency in Sport, creation of a medical scientific team to control the pharmaceutical preparations administered to athletes in all sports.
Establishment of a percentage of the TV rights of professional leagues in favour of anti-doping research.
Compliance with international regulations, support of the World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA) and active participation in its activities.
Taking action against sports federations when athletes, especially national team athletes, use banned substances and methods.
Especially for professional sport, we consider it necessary to have financial, administrative and disciplinary sanctions (deduction of points) for clubs whose athletes are caught doping.
We change the primary sports clubs
Promotion of the role of the sports club on an amateur basis, as a living cell of sport, without reproducing the operating conditions of sports companies.
Linking with other social activities (e.g. linking sporting activity with the demand for the protection of open spaces and the improvement of quality of life).
Free provision of services to athletes and sportsmen and at the same time exemption of the amateur sports club (non-profit) from paying for the use of public and municipal facilities.
We defend and highlight the rights of athletesParticipation of amateur athletes in the governing bodies of sport.
Strengthening the legal framework to protect them from arbitrary and abusive behaviour.
Organised sports medicine coverage with the contribution of the EHEA.
Protecting the health of amateur athletes and free screening by the public primary health system and public specialised sports medicine centres. Full insurance for all active amateur athletes.
Creation of a modern, rational system of incentives for champions (not professionals), members of national teams who excel, with financial rewards only for amateur athletes.
The State undertakes to cover the full costs of the preparation costs of national team athletes and the salary losses due to their absence from official national team commitments.
Measures for the smooth attendance and integration into the productive process after the end of the sporting career and professional utilisation in sport-related bodies.
We respect the rights of fans
We believe in the usefulness of new fan associations that do not accept the role of the customer. We establish the "Fan Advocate".
We believe in the usefulness of new, more conscious fan associations, which are not private armies and applauding "investor-savers" and which aim to assert their rights:
Who will claim the right to form groups with other collective, democratic forms of management and ownership, their participation in the governing bodies of the unions
their respect by the clubs, the limitation of their exploitation by the accuracy of tickets, the creation of humane conditions for watching a sporting event,
resistance to the exploitation of TV rights by pay-TV companies that deprive everyone of the possibility to watch a sporting event,
protection from police measures that affect individual rights and personal data.
Fan associations that will take anti-racist, peaceful initiatives and counterbalance blind violence.
The radical left with its proposal for a single democratic social sports model is the most promising perspective.
SYRIZA stands by the athletes, the athletes, the volunteers of amateur sport, the parents and teachers of physical education, the pure fans and calls for resistance and subversion: to fight together, in terms of social struggles, dignity and self-confidence, for radical change in sport.
