The leader and founder of the Golden Dawn Popular League was born in Athens in 1957.
He studied at the Department of Mathematics of the National and Kapodistrian University of Athens.
Since the age of 16 he has been actively involved in the nationalist movement.
He was first arrested for his beliefs in July 1974,
during a protest outside the British embassy in Athens against the British attitude during the Turkish invasion of Cyprus.
During his service in the Army he served as a Cadet Reserve Officer in the Special Forces.
He is the author of more than ten works of historical, ideological and political content.
He is the editor of the weekly newspaper "Chrysi Avgi", in which he writes.
He was re-elected general secretary during the proceedings of the 7th congress of the movement,
held in Athens in January 2011.
GOLDEN DAWN is a Popular and Nationalist Movement, with structures, principles and positions.
He has been actively involved in the political life of the country since the mid-1990s,
having participated in the European elections (1994, 2009) and national elections (1996, 2009).
On 7 November 2010, GOLDEN DAWN participated in the municipal elections.
In the Municipality of Athens he received 5.3% of the vote and was elected as a councillor.
The Popular Nationalist Movement of GOLDEN DAWN is at the forefront of the struggle against the ethnocidal Memorandum
and the sinful regime of the political establishment parties.
Against the population change, with millions of illegal immigrants, and the disintegration of Greek society promoted by both the parties of the co-government and the so-called left.
It proposes a national policy for the exit from the crisis imposed on our country.
He is fighting for a Greece that belongs to the Greeks.
OUR COUNTRY TODAY
Today our country is going through a profound crisis.
A crisis of values and ethics.
An economic, cultural and national crisis.
Greek society is being crushed under the brutality that has been methodically imposed for decades by the political system and its foreign agents.
Corruption is everywhere.
Huge sums of money are given, in a non-transparent way, to the chosen and the day labourers of the party state, who support the regime in every way.
Any objections by the existing parties in parliament and the controlled trade unions are made for oppositional reasons and to serve the political game of deceiving the people.
Unfairness, party buffers, the appointment of incompetent - but willing - people to serve the system, and polygamy with the production of conflicting photographic laws and provisions, created a shaky and broken state.
As a result, the creative and worthy forces of the country are lost.
The devaluation of national production
The devaluation in almost all sectors of national production has destroyed the productive fabric of the country, turning it into an 80% share of a trading, importing and serving foreign interests.
The devastation of the countryside, the methodical destruction of agriculture, the closure of sugar factories, the textile industry and dozens of other productive sectors linked to agriculture have dramatically reduced local production.
As a result, from internal sufficiency and exports we now import more than 80% of the products for our food.
A typical example is bread, cereals, flour, etc., where more than 90% is produced with imported cereals.
Hundreds of factories have been closed and what industrial production that still exists has been restricted to sectors that are either controlled or do not affect the interests of the new global colonial system.
Our shipping industry, a global power, while it could have turned Piraeus into an international shipping centre, contributing to the development of the shipbuilding industry, as well as other sectors of the economy, was systematically devalued.
Our seafarers, who contributed greatly to its establishment, with their experience, diligence and philo honour, instead of being in demand, were replaced by third-worlders and driven to unemployment and misery.
The lack of measures and rules of social responsibility, the plundering of the reserves of the NAT, the abolition of the Ministry of Shipping and the Coast Guard led to this result.
The multinationals act unchecked, creating consumer patterns and false fictitious needs.
They flood the country with their products and impose their market, while at the same time they put insurmountable obstacles in the way of any Greek development effort not controlled by the system.
A typical example: food chains that massively promote imported products and devalue Greek products.
Science, research and technological development, instead of being in the service of society and the development of the nation,
controlled by a few and serving profit.
For Greek scientists who excel abroad and on behalf of foreigners, any effort to offer their knowledge and contribute to the development of our country is prohibitive.
Cultural alienation, alien American subculture' and recently... Turkish!
The ongoing commercialization of the arts and the cultural alienation of our people is imposed by the system with all the means at its disposal.
The foreign American subculture, as well as recently the Turkish subculture, aim to devalue the Greek culture and to forget the customs, traditions and traditions of our nation.
The education system and the education provided by the state has been eroded and is also controlled by anti-Greeks.
It does not provide essential knowledge and skills for the comprehensive education and integration of young people into society and the productive process.
It does not promote ethics and values. It aims at distorting historical truth, at semi-literacy, at individualism, at unhistorical, tolerant and easy prey for the system.
The bright exceptions are a few teachers and young people who love their country and resist.
Armed Forces: Dangerous weakening
The dramatic weakening of the Armed Forces directly threatens the national integrity and independence of our Homeland, its sovereign rights and vital interests.
The armaments, instead of being done in the national interest for the excellent armouring and strength of the Armed Forces, and in addition to being a lever of development through the transfer of know-how, co-production, research and ultimately the creation of Greek heavy industry, are a place of scandals and dependence,
National issues have been abandoned.
In the Aegean and Thrace, the Turks are marauding, and despite all the UN resolutions and decisions, they still occupy part of our Cyprus.
Skopje's puppets are falsifying history and are attacking our Macedonia.
The Albanian establishment is exterminating our brothers and sisters in Northern Epirus and coveting Epirus.
The international anti-Hellenic system is plotting the dismemberment and shrinking of our country.
The systemic parties, in their ordered role, imprison the people and prevent in every way the genuine popular national reaction.
Our Homeland under occupation
The local corrupt political establishment, clinging to power, is carrying out all the orders of dependence and subjugation by selling out the country.
With the international banking system as a lever of enforcement, our national sovereignty was ceded.
Our territorial integrity is being challenged.
Public property is being sold off.
Energy wealth is being captured.
All incomes are violently smashed.
Small and medium-sized enterprises are closing down.
Hundreds of thousands of Greeks are being driven into unemployment.
Pensioners from the once "proud old age" - live in misery.
Millions of illegal immigrants have invaded and are still invading our country uncontrollably.
They are altering the population composition, so that in a few years Greeks will be a minority in our country and we will be transformed from a national state into a multi-ethnic and multicultural state, as imposed by the international system of globalization.
Crime is now out of control.
Forgotten infectious diseases reappear.
The media are instruments of vulgar propaganda.
They misinform, disorient, terrorize and impose fear on the Greek people.
It's part of the rotten political system.
They are controlled by the big businessmen of the interconnection, the well-known pimps and the globalization system.
The Greek people are looking for a way out of the pathogenesis and the quagmire.
It seeks a dynamic leadership that will lead the nation to upliftment, growth and regeneration.
It is required to acknowledge the wrong choices made so far and find a solution outside the existing parties in parliament.
Every Greek is called upon to personally reflect on their responsibility towards history, their country, themselves and future generations.
GOLDEN DAWN against the corrupt system
GOLDEN DAWN is a genuine popular nationalist movement with principles, positions and programme.
It is the only political body fighting against the corrupt system
and to those who plot the extinction of the nation and the enslavement of our people.
It rejects outdated ideologies and the manufactured ideologies that artificially divide our people.
The policy of Golden Dawn unites Greeks.
It aims at the creation of a National People's and Social State with equal opportunities for all.
We appeal to the Greeks who love the Homeland and we call on them to overcome the mistakes of yesterday and to strengthen our ranks.
For the Nation, the Tribe and our People.
For a Greece that is sovereign and independent.
For a Greece that will belong to the Greeks.
For a New Golden Dawn of Hellenism
Greece has enormous strategic depth, which can provide it with inexhaustible power and international influence.
Greece's strategic depth is the Aegean Sea and its maritime extension, which reaches as far as the island of Cyprus.
The geopolitical value of this region and, in addition, the currently untapped resources it encloses can not only solve the modern economic problems of our state, but also give it a prominent position on the international economic and strategic chessboard.
The implementation of this strategy requires real national leadership and a cleansing of the country's political life from the servants of foreign interests.
Strong Armed Forces are the only guarantee for the national integrity and independence of our Homeland, the preservation of its sovereign rights and the safeguarding of its vital interests.
The Freedom and prosperity of our people depends on their strength.
PROPOSALS FOR A NEW NATIONAL POLICY
Termination of the Memorandum and all the loan agreements that have bound our country.
Disengagement from international organisations that do not serve our national interests.
Yes to the Europe of Nations, no to the Europe of capital and loan sharks.
Definition of the Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ) and new strategic alliances, geopolitically and historically acceptable, to exploit mineral wealth and support national economic development.
State law.
Everyone is equal before the law.
Abolition of the law on ministerial responsibility and parliamentary immunity.
Full audit of the assets and liabilities from 1974 to the present and confiscation of property in favour of the state for those who have enriched themselves at the expense of the Greek people.
Incompatibility of ministerial and parliamentary functions.
Distinction between judicial, executive and legislative powers. Restructuring, codification and modernisation of legislation.
Social protection
A minimum threshold for a decent living and the guarantee of the main residence.
Debt forgiveness in order to relieve the low economic strata and forced renegotiation of all loans by the banks.
Support for large families, low pensioners and the unemployed.
An effective health system and a crackdown on corruption.
Specialised programmes to support workers, maternity, vulnerable groups and youth.
Elimination of waste
Drastic reduction in government spending.
Reduction in the salaries of Members of Parliament.
Reducing the costs of parliament, the presidency and party funding.
Complete abolition of the funding of non-governmental organisations and the secret funds of the corruption.
Prohibition of direct or indirect state advertising and sponsorship of, and funding for, missions and organisations that do not serve national interests.
Installation of all public services and organizations in privately owned buildings.
Development - National production
All the creative forces of the country and the Greek diaspora are released, the procedures are simplified with equal opportunities for all.
The banking system is being redefined into a developmental and social one.
We are creating a stable tax framework, simple but also socially responsible.
The public sector should not be an obstacle but the engine of national development.
Just as there cannot be a strong economy without private initiative, there cannot be a strong economy without the public sector.
Strategic sectors of the economy to be controlled by the national state.
In the broader public sector, the majority of shares remain under public control.
Specific programmes with specifications to support agricultural production, crafts, small and medium-sized enterprises, professionals and young people.
The agricultural bank withdraws from the stock exchange, becomes 100% state-owned
and becomes an essential lever for the development of agricultural production.
National issues
Our Macedonia: a Greek land from the ancient times of the birth of our Tribe and Nation.
He contributed greatly to the creation, dissemination and spread of Greek culture.
It was conquered by the barbarians who invaded after hundreds of years.
After the National Uprising and the liberation struggles of our ancestors, most of it was liberated.
Today, some parts of it remain outside the National Trunk and the Greeks living there are methodically persecuted.
The anti-Greeks of globalization are using the dummies of the Skopje mould in order to distort the historical truth and shrink Greece and Hellenism.
No retreat for our Macedonia.
It is characterized as a crime of high treason for any politician or not who dares to submit and as a hostile act against Hellenism for those who recognize it by its false name.
Northern Epirus: immediate support measures to stay in the hostels, improve living conditions, security and education.
Granting of citizenship to the Greeks of Northern Epirus.
Implementation of the Agreements on Autonomy (pre-Corfu).
The goal: liberation and integration into the motherland.
Cyprus: support in every way the struggle for the liberation of the occupied territories.
Granting Greek citizenship to Greek Cypriots and closer cooperation in all areas.
Cyprus is Greece.
Aegean Sea: Extension of our territorial waters to 12 nautical miles, a right enshrined in Article 3 of the International Convention on the Law of the Sea and without the consent of neighbouring countries.
Immediate delineation of the boundaries of the Greek continental shelf and Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ) based on the principle of the median line and taking as a whole the maritime boundaries of Greece with Turkey, from the Evros estuary to Kastelorizo.
Creation and equipping of an island National Guard.
National development programme for the islands in all productive sectors.
Thrace: Closure of the Turkish consulate and expulsion of Ankara's agents.
A programme for the consciousness re-integration of the Greek Pomaks.
Ultra-modern defence armouring of Evros.
Foreign policy
A multidimensional foreign policy and alliances with countries that respect our history and culture, defend our rights and safeguard our nation's interests.
Establishment of a Research Centre for Anti-Hellenic Activities.
Armed Forces
The prestige of the Armed Forces is restored.
Promotions are made on the basis of loyalty to the nation, skills and merit of the cadres
and not according to how much the corrupt politicians and foreign agents like them.
All Greeks are compulsorily conscripted at the age of 18.
Those who refuse to do their duty to their country are stripped of their citizenship and expelled from society.
Abolition of the famous "alternative" term of office.
Creation of Military and Police High Schools.
Special pay scale for a decent living for those serving in the Armed Forces and Security Forces.
Armaments should be made ONLY through interstate agreements, without intermediaries and in the interest of the nation, because they are a lever of development for national production and heavy industry.
Education
A stable, long-lasting educational system of national and social education.
All stages of education are provided under the care of the state.
Daily pre-school education with full nutrition.
Basic education compulsory for all Greeks, with a 9-year duration.
Secondary education including the Unified Lyceum and the directional Lyceums created by our programme, e.g. Classical, Positive, Sports, Art, Military, etc.
Establishment of vocational colleges.
Creation of a school of Ancient Greek philosophy.
Culture
Promotion of Greek art as an expression of soul and way of life.
Promotion, support and dissemination within and outside Greece of the values of Greek culture and the Greek language in all sectors.
Protection and promotion of archaeological sites and museums.
Special programmes to support artistic creation and our cultural heritage.
Religion
Promotion of the national character of the Church.
Upgrading church education and education with Greek Orthodox principles and ideals.
Tolerance of religion and respect for different religious choice,
except in those cases that affect national interests and undermine Hellenism.
Illegal immigrants, Crime & Security
Illegal immigrants: Immediate implementation of laws to deport all illegal settlers.
It is a felony to enter illegally, with mandatory community service.
Attachment of property to those who rent property or employ foreigners without a residence permit and work card.
Eradicate illicit trade and all those behind it.
Crime and security: expulsion of foreign criminals through transnational agreements to serve their sentences in their countries of origin.
Restructuring the prison system and social work.
Reorganization and modernization of prisons with clear separation in the type and severity of acts.
Reform of the police code and related legislation.
Measures to prevent and suppress crime, to make an example and avoid it, so that we stop being a place of attraction for criminals.
The Greek citizen: Full civil rights ONLY to Greeks by birth and conscience, others to have only civil rights.
The ownership of land and real estate is only for those who have full civil rights; for those who have only civil rights, the ownership automatically belongs to the state from the 99th year onwards.
