The People's Orthodox Rally (the L.O.O.S., with the accent on the omicron as in the word "people"), was founded on 14/09/2000 by its President and MEP Mr.GIORGOS KARATZAFERIS.
The decision to found the LA.O.O.S.was taken after realizing that the so-called major parties not only lack a vision for the progress of our people and our country
, but moreover they cannot stand the truth and tend to drag our country into dangerous adventures with their politics and their endearment to foreign decision-making centres.
The establishment of the LA.O.S. was made to address the two national necessities created by the dead-end policy of those who ruled our country in the last decades,
the need for the restoration of popular sovereignty
and the need for the overthrow of the rotten establishment that oppresses our country and leads it to gradual de-fellinization and enslavement.
The LA.O'.S. is in RIGHT with all the parties that have ruled our country in recent years
and seeks the REVERSE of the current bipolar system that reflects the bankruptcy of politics and leads Greek society to decline.
Β. The identity of the LA.O'.S.
The People's Orthodox Alarm IS:
¾ It is an absolutely democratic party, which advocates the safeguarding of popular sovereignty
as guaranteed by Article 1 of the Constitution,
which stands for justice and equality,
which operates institutionally with elected bodies
and which addresses itself to conscious citizens who do not tolerate the mockery of others deciding for them. ¾
It is a people-centred party, which encourages the industriousness, ingenuity, creativity and entrepreneurial spirit of Greek citizens,
while supporting respect for the rights of the weaker economic classes
and safeguarding the rights of workers.
¾ It is a modernist party, in the essential sense of the term, which condemns all the phenomena that characterize bankrupt societies, such as interconnection and corruption, anarchocracy and nepotism, unemployment and underground economy, insecurity and crime, etc. ¾
It is a Greek-centric party, both because it focuses on the long-term interests of the country and our people, and
because its policies are inspired by the Greek spirit, Greek values and Greek culture. ¾
It is an "orthodox" people's party, which without becoming populist puts forward the interests and protection of underprivileged Greeks
and supports both individual freedoms and the rights to security, progress and prosperity of all those who live legally in Greece, without any discrimination.
¾ It is not a dogmatically anti-American party, without however accepting that "we should obey US foreign policy and not react even when Greece's interests are threatened."
¾ It is not a dogmatically anti-European party, without however accepting that "we should cede to the European Union even powers that nullify our national sovereignty".
¾ It is not a nationalist party, without however accepting that "we should tolerate the devaluation of the fundamental contribution of the Greek spirit to world culture".
¾ It is not a far-right party, without accepting that "we should overlook the fact of the collapse of the communist ideology and the serious social and economic problems that all the countries that had been imposed on them as a regime faced".
¾ It is not a racist party, without however accepting that "we should downplay the problems created in our country by the reality of uncontrolled illegal immigration".
¾ It is not a religiously fundamentalist party, without accepting that "we should disregard what our Constitution provides for the Eastern Orthodox Church of Christ as the predominant religion of Greece".
The People's Orthodox Rally is NOT:
Γ. The Ideology of the LA.O'.S.
The ideology of the People's Orthodox Rally is absolutely clear, we are an "orthodox" popular party, with all the characteristics of parties with this ideological positioning.
But this clear position is perhaps the point that (deliberately?) has been misinterpreted and discredited in the public opinion of our country more than all the issues related to the LA.O'.S.
But this is not at all surprising, if one takes into account that from the late 1980s onwards the ideology and practice of the popular character of one party, PASOK, became the central target of systematic attacks and defamation.
An attack that, in a strange way, came both from a group of its executives who, under the leadership of Costas Simitis, were trying to get a better position in the struggle for Andreas Papandreou's succession
and from the New Democracy party, which found no other way to defend itself against the broad acceptance of Andreas Papandreou's pro-popular positions among the electorate of our country.
This attack against the popular ideology of PASOK was masterfully planned at the level of communication and aimed at channelling misinformation and disorienting public opinion in a series of approaches.
So today, after a long effort by some, the citizens of our country have confused in their minds the concepts of "popular ideology" with "populism" and "conservatism", of
"patriotism" with "nationalism" and "racism"
, of "Greek-centrism" with "chauvinism",
'modernisation' with 'old-partyism',
'anthropocentrism' with 'individualism',
'independent foreign policy' with 'anti-Americanism' and 'isolationism',
'resistance to globalisation' with 'international marginalisation'.
The misinformation and disorientation of Greek citizens in relation to these concepts has reached the point where their meaning is lost and one replaces the other, just as Orwell described would happen with the "New Language" in his classic book "1984".
But the ideology of the L.O.O.S. is clear: the L.O.O.S., with the emphasis on the omicron as in the word "people", is an "orthodoxly" popular party that, without becoming populist,
puts forward the interests and protection of the underprivileged Greeks
and supports both individual freedoms and the rights to security, progress and prosperity of all those who live legally in Greece, without any discrimination.
But how is this ideology defined and how does it fit into the context of the familiar for the average citizen positioning on the "right, centre, left" axis?
The answer is simple. The ideology of an 'orthodox' popular party is defined in a different way and cannot fit into the classical 'right, centre, left' axis.
That is why we have to look at it from the beginning.
Human society can be divided on the basis of many different theoretical sociological models, some of which create real and some imaginary distinctions.
The usual and familiar division of "political ideology" is based on two vertical axes dividing it into "right, centre, and left", as shown in the figure opposite.
But this division is not real, has no meaningful basis for measurement in human society and has been created and imposed for one reason alone.
To shift the focus of human attention from the real to the imaginary, to prevent the realisation of a real division of our society
and to allow the maintenance of the imposition of an economic oligarchy on the great mass of relatively or absolutely economically weak people, even in a regime of parliamentary democracy where power and authority, through the electoral processes, theoretically belong to this great mass.
The popular parties reject this model of the false political division of our society into "right-centre-left"
and propose a model of a horizontal division into "Rich-Inherited-Inherited-Disadvantaged" which corresponds to a measured and real division of our society.
They also consider that in a parliamentary democracy power and authority should be in the hands of the real majority of the people, the people, who belong to the lower socio-economic strata.
This conception gives the name of this particular ideological approach, "popular ideology".
In a crude metaphor to today's Greek reality, our society could be divided into the level of the "rich" who have a monthly income of more than 6000 Euros, the "privileged" who have a monthly income between 1500 and 6000 Euros, and the "non-privileged" who have a monthly income of less than 1500 Euros.
Who are the most numerous?
Who should hold the power in a real democracy?
Whose interests should be supported and promoted as a top priority by the government of a genuine democracy?
The answer comes from the popular parties and, in the case of Greece, the People's Orthodox Rally.
If we correlate the classical vertical political division into "Right-Centre-Left" with the horizontal political division into "rich-privileged-underprivileged" proposed by the popular parties, one of their main characteristics, the one that troubles the average citizen who is not familiar with their ideology, becomes clear.
The ideological positions of the popular parties do not fit into the "Right-Centre-Left" axis as they include points that belong, points that place them, to all three of these classical political positions, some on the Right, some on the Centre and some on the Left, depending on which positions serve the interests of the "underprivileged" citizens better at any given time.
This is the main reason why, often, popular parties become an easy target for criticism for not having clear positions, for being demagogic and, ultimately, "populist".
But the reality is that the ideology of the Popular Orthodox Rally is absolutely clear to anyone who can escape from disinformation and disorientation.
The orthodox popular ideology is a political approach that is absolutely and profoundly democratic, as it advocates the safeguarding of popular sovereignty as guaranteed by Article 1 of the Constitution,
it stands for justice and equality,
and aims to transfer governmental power to those who truly constitute the majority of a people, the lower economic strata, through their concerted political action beyond and outside the established, false, political walls of the "Right-Centre-Left" division.
The orthodox popular ideology is a pro-popular political approach that puts the interests of the underprivileged Greeks first,
upholds both individual freedoms and the rights to security, progress and prosperity of all those who live legally in Greece without any discrimination
and aims to protect the interests of the common people, the people, against all those who for any reason,
either in the name of preserving an old party establishment or a family-based power complex of interlocking political, economic and media actors.
Orthodox popular ideology is a political approach that is patriotic and Greek-centred,
which prioritises the national interests of the country and our people, which is
inspired by the Greek spirit, Greek values and Greek culture
, and which aims at restoring democracy in the classical sense of the term as the "principle of the many" instead of the "principle of organised interests" that we have in our country today.
Orthodox folk ideology is a deeply human-centred political approach,
which advocates respect for the rights of the weaker economic classes and the safeguarding of workers,
which believes in the industriousness, ingenuity, creativity and entrepreneurial spirit of Greek citizens
and which aims to activate the disengaged, by the classical political division, underprivileged citizens so that they wake up, realise the mockery they are suffering, the true extent of their power and, finally, take a real interest in the common good and in protecting their interests.
Orthodox popular ideology is a political approach that is essentially modernist,
which opposes the "cobbled together" status quo,
which condemns all the phenomena that characterise bankrupt societies, such as corruption and corruption, inefficiency and nepotism, unemployment and the underground economy, insecurity and crime,
which demands and claims that the various leading groups in our society should play their real social role in the advancement of our society as a whole.
Orthodox folk ideology is a political approach to social politics,
which believes that the interests and rights of the majority of citizens are identical to the interests and rights of our society and that, in the event of a conflict with the rights of minorities, they must be protected as a matter of priority
but without ever violating the constitutional and basic human rights of any human being living, whether legally or illegally, in our society
The orthodox popular ideology is a political ethical approach,
which believes that a better functioning of society is for the benefit of all of us and sees the universal moral values of Hellenism, Humanism and the Christian religion as a prerequisite for such a better society.
D. Preamble to the positions of the LA.O'.S.
Findings
It is a fact that in recent years we have all witnessed situations that :
¾ They show that corruption and corruption have eroded the state apparatus, the political leaderships and most political parties, the judiciary, trade unionism, and even the armed forces of our country.
This is why the Greek people's concern about the political scene of our country is now evident and intense, as the New Democracy's pre-election promises to restore a normal political life without corruption, corruption and "pimps" have turned out to be false and empty words. ¾
They reveal that the economy of our country has become a "dry vineyard", with the uncontrolled entry of multinational companies
and economic migrants causing the loss of hundreds of thousands of jobs for Greek citizens,
and as a consequence, one in five Greeks living below the poverty line.
¾ They show a particularly close dependence of Greece on the globalization establishment and the US. ¾
They reveal that some want to impose on us an informal regime of "hereditary prime ministry"
hidden behind a mask of "parliamentary democracy" that will undermine the struggles of our people both for real popular sovereignty and for the
defence of our national independence and territorial integrity.
Brake on the downhill slide
But precisely because it is now becoming clear to Greek society that we are at a critical juncture.
and that the course of subordination and the undermining of our national interests cannot continue either,
nor the course of economic decline of our fellow citizens and our country,
It is now beginning to become visible that we need to get back on the road to genuine popular sovereignty and genuine parliamentary democracy,
on the road to protecting our national independence and territorial integrity,
that we must walk with determination and courage towards the foundation of a different, a new Greece.
The demand of Greek society for a new political party that will be distinguished for the consistency and continuity of its positions has become universal,
a party that can realize the aspirations of our society for an independent and proud, for a better Greece.
But this party already exists and it is a popular party,
a party that cares about the interests of every underprivileged Greek,
that authentically represents the farmer, the worker and the employee, the wage-earner, the freelancer and the craftsman, our youth and our elderly.
A party that believes in popular sovereignty
and social justice,
national independence
and real democracy in all aspects of public life.
Equity - Equity - Immediate Opportunities
The basic goal of this party is a modern state,
free from the influences and dependencies of the economic and party oligarchy of our country,
without the extra-institutional power of the media,
without "cronyism" and "black political money",
dedicated to the service of the people and the creation of a reality that will promote and serve the political, economic, social and cultural interests of Greece.
The overriding objective of this party is our national independence and our territorial integrity,
because these are inextricably linked to democracy and popular sovereignty in every aspect of the life of the country.
The fundamental goal of this party is social justice
and clear rules in all aspects of economic and social life,
necessary conditions for every Greek to enjoy the products of his labour.
The primary policy goals of this party are to fight the income inequality that plagues Greece.
The cultivation of thought and the making of true Greek education the property of all Greeks.
To provide jobs and housing to all Greeks who did not want or could not settle for a buffet.
Effective support for motherhood, children and the elderly, to protect the institution of the family
and ensure that there will be Greeks in the long run.
Common Concerns - Common Course
This modern political party that stands next to Greek society, that listens to its needs and expresses its anxieties, is the Popular Orthodox Rally, however strange this may seem because of the smear campaign against it.
The reality is that the LA.O'.S., with its emphasis on the omicron as in the word people, is today the most genuine carrier of all the popular and democratic forces of our country,
that today the LA.O'.S. reflects more clearly than any other political party the anxieties and the "wants", the needs and the "beliefs", the aspirations and the vision of every non-privileged Greek.
The reality is that the L.A.O.S., with the emphasis on the omicron as in the word people, has as its basic and fundamental principles the absolute respect of the Constitution, democracy and all democratic procedures,
that today the L.A.O.S. is the only one of the political parties that is fighting for real Parliamentary Democracy and effective People's Sovereignty.
But the existence of a party is not enough.
We also need the active presence, the support and the vote of the citizens.
We simply ask you to get to know us better.
And, if we share the same beliefs, to move forward together on a path towards a better society, a path towards a truly independent, democratic and socially just Greece.
Ε. LA.O'.S.'s Positions on the Institutions
1. Institutions
We consider the institutions as the fundamental carriers of the laws of the Greek state and as the basic levers for the operation and development of Greek society.
We believe that the functioning of the institutions should be altered or terminated only through appropriate constitutional and statutory changes.
1.1. To protect the Institutions
We believe that the institutions of our society should be protected
and, correspondingly, that penalties should be provided and applied to those who deliberately obstruct their legitimate functioning.
Also, because our institutions include our sacred and national symbols, we believe that those who insult or destroy them should either be punished, or those who have demonstrably failed to protect them should be punished.
1.2. About the Constitution of Greece
We consider the Constitution of Greece as our constitutional law which should be fully respected and observed by all bodies and by all natural and legal persons of our country.
We also consider that the obligation to respect it applies particularly in the case of entities that have the power to circumvent it or refuse to apply it, such as the Government or the bodies of the Public Administration controlled by the Government.
We believe that our Constitution has been systematically violated for years by the Governments and the parties of New Democracy and PASOK, in its basic and non-revisable articles that establish the clear separation of the three Powers, the equality of the vote of Greek citizens and the equality of all Greek citizens before the law.
New Democracy and PASOK, through a series of "constitutional coups", imposed the control of the Executive over the Legislative and the Judiciary, the domination of the Government over the Parliament and the Judiciary.
New Democracy and PASOK, with a series of "predatory electoral laws" that do not respect the equality of the vote of all citizens, have abolished the essence of our democracy, the representativeness of the composition of the Parliament.
The New Republic and PASOK with a series of provocative regulations and laws abolished the principle of equality of all Greek citizens before the law
and gave the Parliament powers that belong to the organs of the Judiciary,
challenging the sense of justice of the Greek people with the current "Law on the Responsibility of Ministers" and the way the institution of "parliamentary immunity" is applied.
We pledge to fight always and with all our strength to protect our Constitution, in any case or attempt to violate, circumvent or challenge it, by any internal or external agent.
In this context, and in particular for the protection of our Constitution from the way the parties of the New Democracy and PASOK have been operating until today,
we consider necessary the establishment and operation of an independent institutional body with the powers of a "Constitutional Court", with the task of resolving disputes and controversies that arise in relation to the functioning of our constitution,
on the other hand, the pre-trial investigation and the decision to refer all cases related to the legal responsibility of politicians, such as "Ministerial Responsibility" and "Parliamentary Immunity", to the respective Courts.
As a first step in this direction, and until the completion of all the necessary institutional arrangements, we propose to legislate for the delegation of the two above-mentioned powers to the Plenary Court of Appeal of the Athens Court of Appeal.
1.3. For the President of the Republic
We believe that the President of our Republic should be a non-partisan person of common acceptance, independent, unattached and a guardian of the Saints and the Holiest of our country.
We are opposed to the way the election of the President of the Republic is currently conducted, because the party bargaining that takes place before and during the presidential election burdens the President with commitments and bills to those who elect him.
We would agree in the direction of the direct election of the President of the Republic by the people, provided that his powers were no longer limited to etiquette and that he was once again granted the powers provided for in the 1975 constitution.
We believe that, in strengthening the institution of the President of the Republic, it would be useful to establish a "Council of Aristocrats" which would act as his advisory body and would be composed of the Prime Minister of the day and the leaders of the opposition parties, the Speaker of Parliament, the most senior of the Presidents of the Supreme Courts, the Chief of the Armed Forces, the most senior of the Diplomatic Corps, the President of the Academy of Athens, the most senior of the Rectors of the Higher Educational Institutions and the respective Presidents of the GSEE and ADEDY.
1.4. For the Prime Minister and the Government
We believe that the current system of electing governments has led the political life of the country to a peculiar regime of "Prime Ministerial dictatorship", in which both the Constitution and the Parliamentary role of the MPs who, abandoning party discipline, vote, according to the well-known "Yes to Everything", have been degraded.
We are committed to fight with all our forces to address and correct this problem
and we consider it necessary, as a first measure in this direction, to disconnect the procedures for the election of the Government from those for the election of MPs.
That is, we propose the direct legitimation of governments by direct election by the people, so that they will not need the "vote of confidence" of the Parliament to govern.
We also believe that there should be a restriction on the right to be re-elected as Prime Minister, in line with that of the President of the Republic, and
that participation in the government should be incompatible with any other political or professional status, including that of the office of Member of Parliament.
1.4.1. For the attribution of legal responsibility to members of a government
We believe that all Greeks are equal before the law, and this also applies to the members of every government.
This is why we propose the amendment of the Law "On the Responsibility of Ministers" in the direction of its equivalence with the law applicable to all residents of Greece.
We also consider, and in agreement with what was mentioned above in paragraph 1.2., that the "Constitutional Court" should be exclusively responsible for all matters related to the attribution of legal responsibility to members of a Government.
And, we stress, we believe that the powers of both conducting preliminary investigation procedures and prosecuting members of a government should be removed from Parliament and transferred to the "Constitutional Court".
1.5. For the Parliament and the Members of Parliament
We believe that the Parliament must be freed from the shackles of supporting the Government of the day
and focus on assuming its more essential constitutional role, which is the exercise of Legislative Power.
We want a Parliament composed of MPs who will have independence of opinion and will be able to express it without fear of "party discipline".
Members of Parliament who will actually take on the legislative work and who will use dialogue and consensual procedures to secure the majority needed to pass each bill.
And we believe that the implementation of our proposal to decouple the procedures for the election of the Government from those for the election of MPs, leads substantially in this direction.
In relation to the second constitutional role of the Parliament, the control of the Executive and the Government, we believe that in any case the Parliament should have the right to "propose impeachment", but this should only be directed against specific members of the Government, even the Prime Minister himself,
and in the event that a "motion of censure" is passed in the plenary session of Parliament, then the accused member of the Government should be replaced immediately through exclusively internal party procedures, with no other consequences for the Government.
We also believe that in order to limit phenomena such as dependency, interdependence, corruption or family rule in the political life of our country, a limitation of the right to be elected to Parliament to four four years should be introduced,
and the simultaneous election of two people who are related by first-degree kinship should be prohibited, as well as their election in the same constituency in two consecutive elections.
1.5.1. On Parliamentary Immunity
We strongly condemn the unbridled use of parliamentary immunity which, in the name of protecting the MP in the exercise of his or her office, has been turned into a "professional privilege of impunity" for MPs.
We believe that, in line with what has been stated in paragraph 1.2 above, the authority and responsibility for all matters relating to the prosecution of MPs and parliamentary immunity should be transferred from Parliament to the "Constitutional Court", which we believe should be solely responsible for both the prosecution and the granting of immunity to MPs.
1.6. For political parties
We believe that political parties must operate under a strict and constitutionally defined institutional framework that will precisely predefine the way they operate.
The compliance of the parties with the framework provided for them and the control of the implementation of all relevant provisions provided for them should be carried out on an annual basis by the Parliament, the competent tax authority and the Council of State.
1.7. For the Promises of Political Parties and Political
We believe that the programmatic declarations of each party as well as the electoral promises of politicians should be considered as a "legal assumption of a legal obligation" towards the citizens so that, in case they are not fulfilled after the elections, they can be used to establish the crime of fraud.
We propose, in line with what has been mentioned above in paragraph 1.2., that the "Constitutional Court" should have exclusive jurisdiction to investigate and adjudicate these cases of "political fraud", by analogy with the current "Ministerial Responsibility".
Indicatively, it is proposed to institutionalise the possibility of revoking the parliamentary status of those who have demonstrably acted contrary to their electoral commitments or if 15% of the voters of their electoral district request it.
1.8. For the Elections and the Electoral System
We believe that elections, together with referendums, are the pinnacle of democracy in any country that has a representative type of constitution.
We believe that, in line with what has been said in paragraph 1.4. above, the procedures for the election of the Government should be decoupled from those for the election of MPs, in line with what is in force in many other countries of the world.
We also believe that the system by which both the elections for the election of the Government and the elections for the election of MPs should be constitutionally enshrined and should not change according to the needs of each Government.
1.8.1. Government elections
We believe that our country needs an Executive Power, a Government that will be obliged to respect its role and the citizens, the independence of the Legislative and the Judiciary and that will not be able to sacrifice the Constitution on the altar of partisan expediency.
We also believe that in order to take some steps in this direction it is sufficient to institutionalize our proposal for the direct election of the Government by the people.
Our proposal can be implemented in two alternative ways.
The first is by holding completely separate elections for government every four years, in between the four-year term of each parliament.
The second one is the institutional abolition of the "principle of the decree" and the institutionalization of the fact that the party that obtains a majority, even relatively, in the National Elections automatically forms a four-year government, regardless of the number of MPs it elects.
1.8.2. Parliamentary elections
We believe that once the Parliament is freed from the shackles of supporting the Government of the day, there is no reason left to justify the holding of Parliamentary Elections with electoral systems that numerically alter the will and expression of Greek citizens.
The electoral system that we propose for the Parliamentary Elections is the "Simple Proportional Representation with a minimum vote threshold clause", because we believe that this is the only electoral system that brings out a Parliament that truly represents the will of the people and gives meaning to the constitution of the type of representative democracy.
We also believe that there should be a restructuring of constituencies, as the current system, with the different number of elected MPs per constituency, has raised serious questions about its constitutionality.
In this context, we propose the creation of only 20 minor constituencies based on population and geographical criteria, each of which will elect 12 MPs by cross-election, for a total of 240 MPs out of 300.
For the remaining 60, we propose that they should all be State MPs and elected from the "list" of State ballots of each party entering Parliament, by simple proportional representation based on the total number of votes received by each party throughout the country.
1.9. For the execution of Referendums
We consider Referendums as an essential element of the completion of our democratic constitution and we call for the institutionalization of the obligation of the Government to hold Referendums on all critical National and Social issues.
We also propose the institutionalization of the obligation of the Government to hold a referendum on any problem that concerns Greek society, if requested by 10% of the Members of Parliament or if requested by 1,000,000 Greek citizens by collecting signatures.
1.10. On the Judiciary
We believe that the operation of the Judiciary, independent of the Executive, is a necessary and fundamental element of the Rule of Law.
We also believe that this principle has never worked until today in Greece as the supreme leadership of the Judiciary is appointed by the Council of Ministers, as provided for by the relevant constitutional provisions.
We propose the institutionalization of the appointment of the highest leadership of the Judiciary, as well as the heads of all the Courts, through internal elections of the members of the Judiciary, while at the same time establishing particularly high qualitative criteria for the curriculum vitae of the candidates who can be candidates for these positions.
1.11. On the "Behaviour" of Politicians and Public Officials
We believe that a real "behind-the-scenes" of politicians and public officials is a necessary condition for fighting the corruption and intrigue that have eroded political life and plagued the wider public sector.
We propose to revise the current legislation in a direction that will lead to a real, effective and real control of the "whereabouts" of politicians and other public officials themselves, their spouses and their first-degree relatives.
1.12. On Religion and the Orthodox Church
We acknowledge that religion has always played an important role in the historical course of Hellenism, both at the level of battles, where from ancient times the struggles were fought "for altars and hearths" to the modern "for the holy faith of Christ and the freedom of the homeland", and at the level of the moral and spiritual formation of the personality of the Greeks.
We believe that in modern Greek society where all human rights are respected, no religion or creed can or should be discriminated against.
At the same time, we believe that the provisions of our Constitution and laws for the protection of the "predominant religion of Greece", which is the "Eastern Orthodox Church of Christ", should also be respected, a recognition that our Constitution offers to Orthodoxy in return for what it has offered to the Greek Nation in difficult times for its survival.
1.13. For Trade Unionism
We believe in a healthy trade union movement that will play an important role in protecting the economic and social interests of workers.
At the same time, we believe that trade unionism in Greece has been eroded by an extreme partisanship and is led by a partisan trade union aristocracy that does not hesitate to act against the true interests of workers when these are in conflict with the petty needs of the parties that control them.
We propose the creation of a supreme trade union institution, the "Trade Union Parliament", in which all productive and social classes will be broadly represented in a way that will prevent the manifestation of the problems of the trade union movement.
The Trade Union Parliament, through dialogue, will formulate proposals that will defend the interests of the workers and will be submitted to the Government in order to be promoted and become State Laws.
1.14. For the "Independent Authorities"
We consider the "Independent Authorities" as a positive institution, with very special characteristics and special importance, aiming at the widest possible protection of every citizen from arbitrary acts of the state administration.
We believe first of all that the creation of Independent Authorities marks the confession of a Government that it is unable to effectively control the Public Administration
and the admission that public officials do not respect the rights of the citizen, do not operate in a lawful and efficient manner and have been eroded by party and non-party interference and corruption.
We also believe that as the institution of Independent Authorities is relatively new for Greek standards, its limits have not been clearly defined.
The Independent Authorities may be independent of the Public Administration, but they are not independent, they are not above the Constitution and the Laws.
The Independent Authorities may have a role in protecting the interests of citizens, but this protection cannot be at the expense of either legality or society as a whole.
1.14.1. For the "Ombudsman"
We believe that the institution of the Ombudsman aims to provide the greatest possible service and protection of citizens from bureaucratic and arbitrary acts of the administration at all levels
and we propose to upgrade it by granting it more substantial powers of control and intervention.
1.14.2. For the "Personal Data Protection Authority"
We recognise the right to the protection of every citizen's personal data.
At the same time, however, we believe that the way in which this protection is exercised should neither contradict the wider social interest nor create an alibi for covering up illegalities.
1.15. For Journalism, Media and the National Broadcasting Council
We believe that the essence and quality of a democracy is directly linked to the quality and level of the media that operate in it, both electronic and print.
For this reason, we believe that it is necessary to immediately establish rules for the operation of the media, in order to remove the blurred landscape that currently exists in them, both in terms of their ownership and in terms of the quality and feasibility of the information and entertainment they offer.
We believe that citizens' right to information should be substantially protected from controls and interventions by both institutional and external actors.
For this reason we condemn censorship in any form, whether it comes from state institutions or from media owners,
and we call for the drafting of an ethical framework for the media.
We believe that journalism is a profession that supports and protects our democracy and our society.
This is why we call for the protection of journalists from pressure and interference in the exercise of their profession.
Also, because we do not turn a blind eye to the reality of the "buying" of journalists to promote the directed disinformation that their "pimps" want,
we demand the establishment of ethical rules for journalists
and the publication of the names of all journalists who are paid from secret funds or have other dependencies on the Greek government, as well as those known to be funded by secret services of other countries.
We believe that in an area of intense competition and influence, such as the media sector, it is necessary to observe a set of rules whose application often goes against the interests of the Government.
For this reason we call for the upgrading of the National Broadcasting Council to an institutional Independent Authority controlling all media and its independence from the current control of the Government.
But even if the National Broadcasting Council is maintained in its present form, we ask that it be given control and distribution of radio frequencies according to objective criteria, so as to ensure the independence and real equality of all the media,
its jurisdiction be changed from the imposition of arbitrary fines to prosecutions that will be considered as offences in the first instance and will be tried immediately.
F. The positions of the L.O.O.S. on the individual policy issues
Introduction
We believe that the current situation of the multi-member Cabinet has arisen as a result of the need to maintain the internal party balance of the ruling party,
and has led to excessive and dysfunctional segmentation of the various sectors of the Public Administration and overlapping responsibilities.
We believe that the central services of the Ministries should be compacted to the greatest extent possible with new organisational structures and a clear separation of their responsibilities,
along with their full representation at regional and prefectural level.
In this context we believe that there should be a reduction of the Ministries to the following ten:
Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which will include the Deputy Ministry of Expatriate Hellenism
Ministry of National Defence
Ministry of Public Administration and Internal Affairs, which will include the Deputy Ministry of Akritikos Ellada
Ministry of National Economy and State Revenue, comprising the Deputy Ministries of Economic Planning and State Revenue
Ministry of Social Protection, which will include Deputy Ministries in the areas of Justice, Public Order and Disaster Management
Ministry of National Development, which will include Deputy Ministries in the fields of Trade, Agriculture, Tourism, Industry and Public Works
Ministry of Social Welfare, which will include Deputy Ministries in the fields of Social Welfare, Health, Labour and Social Security
Ministry of Education, which will include Deputy Ministries in the fields of Education, Culture, Sport and Religious Affairs
Ministry of Communications and Transport, which will include a Ministry of State for Maritime Affairs
Ministry of Environmental Protection, which will include Deputy Ministries in the fields of Environment, Planning and Energy
The presentation of the positions of the L.O.O.S. on the individual issues of Greece's policy will be made by ministry, in accordance with the above division.
(Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which will include a Deputy Ministry of Hellenic Expatriates)
F. 1. The PLO's Positions on our Foreign Policy
1. Foreign Policy
We believe that our country must have a non-partisan national foreign policy, with continuity, with dynamism, with consistency and, above all, with a long-term strategy
that will be shaped with the exclusive criterion of the interests of our country and the Greek nation.
We believe that our foreign policy should be truly independent, without defeatism or servility, without being drawn into isolationism or uncritical compliance.
We believe that in today's international environment, our national foreign policy should aim to defend and promote Greek interests.
To safeguard our national sovereignty from external, real or potential, dangers.
To promote the position that our borders are also the borders of the European Union.
To highlight the role that our country can play in the wider Eastern Mediterranean basin.
The protection of Greek minorities and Greek cultural heritage in all countries where historically there is or has been a Greek presence in the past.
We consider dangerous the doctrines "We belong to the West" and "we claim nothing", on the basis of which our present foreign policy is practiced,
and we believe that their replacement by the doctrines "Greece belongs where its interests dictate" and "we claim all that is guaranteed to us by the International Treaties and International Law".
That is why we consider it non-negotiable both that we cannot adopt positions and directives that go against our national interests, and that it
as well as the fact that it is not possible to discuss with other countries issues that are subject to international law such as the continental shelf, airspace, territorial waters or the joint exploitation of the Aegean.
We believe that a key element of our Foreign Policy should be to inform our people as widely as possible about the current reality of our national issues
and to form in every Greek citizen a sense of personal responsibility for their course, a sense of demand for participation in the shaping of the strategy for dealing with them.
The question of our foreign policy is, at its core, simple and real for every Greek citizen, regardless of whether some people try to make us believe that it is complex and imaginary: Where are the borders that you are willing to fight, and even give your life if necessary, to protect?
In Macedonia or in Rafina?
In Thrace or in Kastri?
In Epirus or in Koumundourou?
In the Aegean islands or in Perissos?
Kolonaki or Cyprus?
In this context, and given that almost two thirds of our country's population live within three hundred kilometres of the Athens basin, we consider it particularly important to conduct an extensive media campaign to inform the people living in the peripheral regions of our country about how they feel about the course of our national issues,
so that a unified view and attitude, a unified attitude, a unified mindset, on the essential importance of our foreign policy can be created again among our people.
We also believe that one of the essential elements of our Foreign Policy should be the creation of strong Greek Lobbies in all countries that have the power of broader intervention in international fora and organisations, which will aim at providing more complete information and shaping a favourable position of public opinion and the Governments of these countries for the interests of Greece.
1.1. For our neighbouring countries
Greece can and should play a leading role in the wider Balkan region, taking advantage of the Greek business penetration in them and promoting the wider historical Greek Cultural Presence throughout the Balkans and Asia Minor.
In particular, in relation to problems we have with our neighbouring countries, we propose the following:
Our positions on the major national issue of Cyprus must be in accordance with the provisions of the International Conventions and International Law: the
only just solution is the one based on the 1960 Constitution and the removal of the occupation troops, in accordance with the multiple condemnatory resolutions of the UN Security Council, for Turkey's invasion and occupation of the island, without hasty moves to accept "initiatives" and "goodwill" interventions.
Our positions on Turkey must be in line with and determined by respect for the provisions of international conventions and international law.
We also believe that we must actively defend, through appeals to international courts and organizations, the rights of the Greeks remaining in Constantinople and the Ecumenical Patriarchate.
To support, financially and as a state, all individual claims for the return of the property of Greeks expelled from Turkey.
To demand the implementation of the resolution taken by the UN Security Council in 1981, and the reopening of the Holy Church of Agia Sophia and the Theological School of Halki.
Regarding Turkey's claims in Thrace, we believe that we must respond by denouncing them to all relevant international organizations, by informing international public opinion about their existence
and, in addition, by searching for, identifying and organizing Turkish citizens of Greek origin and presenting a series of corresponding claims for them in international fora.
Finally, on the issue of Turkey's entry into the European Union, our country's position should be determined by a direct referendum, in which the L.O.S. will take a negative position
, considering that Turkey has no place in the European Union for geographical, cultural, religious and political reasons.
Our positions on the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia (FYROM) must be firmly linked to the decision of the Council of Political Leaders in 1992 that "The name of the state of Skopje cannot include the term "Macedonia" because this is a falsification of historical truth, leads to the destabilization of the Balkans and opens the way to geostrategic aspirations and claims against us".
On the issue of FYROM's entry into the European Union, our country's position should be determined by an immediate Referendum, in which the L.O.S. will propose the immediate correlation of the course of FYROM's accession negotiations with the course of the negotiations for its new official name
, and as long as the pending name issue is maintained, Greece should veto FYROM's accession to the European Union.
Our positions on Albania must be irrevocable from and determined by respect for the provisions of International Conventions and International Law.
They must also be shaped by the fact of the large number of economic migrants from this country, the threats formulated by extreme Albanian elements, "After Kosovo, Chamuria, after the KLA, the UCC", as well as the historical position of the "Old Man of Democracy" George Papandreou that "The assertion of our national rights in Northern Epirus is an obligation of the nation, sacred and inalienable", especially those clearly identified in the "Corfu Protocol".
1.2. For the European Union
We believe that the future of our country is linked to the European Union to a significant extent and we are in favour of the integration of all European countries into a sustainable Union,
but we believe that this can only be achieved within the framework of a Confederation where the historical, cultural and national roots as well as the specific national characteristics of the European peoples are recognised and protected.
We are in favour of a united Europe of nations, as INDEM sees and proposes it.
We also believe that the European Union can and should formulate a common foreign policy by consensus on issues of major interest,
but each European country, and we as Greece, should retain the right of veto on issues of vital national importance to it.
1.3. For the USA.
We consider it a political pragmatism to recognize the important position of the United States in the world, both because it is the only superpower today and because of its historic contribution to the struggles against fascism, and
we seek a good and harmonious relationship with it.
But we also believe that the broader political framework of the European Union to which we belong and the international conditions shaped by the recovery of Russia and the growth of China allow us not to passively accept any geopolitical planning of the US Governments
and to react in cases where it contradicts our national interests.
As for the climate of anti-Americanism that has been provoked in Greek society, we believe that this is not a Greek peculiarity but that it is part of the phenomenon of the global tendency of public opinion to be critical of the US in cases where it either does not use but openly abuses its power,
or proves to be inferior to the moral expectations that it has created through its struggles for freedom and human rights.
1.4. On Globalisation
We believe that the phenomenon of globalisation is not one-dimensional and that it has many controversial aspects and views, both in terms of its aims and consequences and in terms of the ways in which it is being realised or imposed in global society.
We agree with some aspects of globalisation and disagree with others, but, above all, we disagree strongly with the way it is being promoted and enforced today.
We agree with globalisation when its implementation aims at eliminating all kinds of inequalities between the more and less developed peoples of the world and at achieving global prosperity,
provided that it is the result of the free will of each people and is done in a way that respects their human, national, religious and cultural identity.
We disagree with the globalisation that aims to level people and wants to turn thinking citizens into mere consumers.
We disagree with globalisation which aims at the annihilation of local and national cultures and traditions, promoting the imposition of their replacement by a uniform system of values based on multiculturalism and religious syncretism.
We disagree with globalisation which aims to create a barbaric humanity where profit, wealth and power will reign, a humanity in which the vast majority of people will be forced to live, think and move according to the dictates and moods of their masters.
1.5. For the Diaspora
We believe that the Greek Diaspora is a great and untapped asset of Greece.
The Greek Communities abroad, especially in the USA and other countries of the Western world, can play an important role both in promoting and promoting our national issues and in supporting our Foreign Policy.
We also believe that an immediate census and registration of the Greek Diaspora around the world is required, as well as its systematic mobilization through a series of institutional interventions.
As a first intervention we propose the upgrading of the General Secretariat of Expatriate Hellenism to a Deputy Ministry,
as a second, the creation of "Centres of Greek Culture" in all regions where there is a large number of expatriates
and as a third, the restructuring of the Council of Expatriate Hellenism, renaming it the National Council of Greek Expatriates and its operation as the Parliament of Expatriate Hellenism in which representatives of the Hellenes from all over the world will participate.
(Ministry of National Defence)
F.2. The PLO's positions on our National Defence
2. National Defence
We believe that Greece is a peaceful country that respects international conventions, international law and its borders,
a country that recognizes the trend towards European Union and understands that there is no point in thinking about changes in the current European map,
a country that understands that in today's global conditions it makes no sense to have territorial ambitions at the expense of neighbouring states.
We believe that for the foreign policy described above to be possible, Greece must have a strong defence mechanism that can deal with real external dangers
and prevent thoughts of threats and claims from our neighbouring states.
We see the meaning of the words "Reliable Deterrence" as key to securing peace, in the context of the doctrine that "If you want peace you must be ready for war",
as it has been proven historically that any other political approach leads to increasing pressure from potential adversaries and, ultimately, in the opposite direction to the maintenance of peace.
For the above reasons, we believe that we need a national army, modern and worthy of its mission, whose existence and preservation must be a priority of every Greek Government.
We also consider that the formation of such an army is based on the balanced development of three axes, its "Organisation and Formation", its "Equipment and Support" and, of course, its "Human Resources".
2.1. For the axis "Organization and Formation" of our army
We believe that our Armed Forces should be reorganized in accordance with the standards of modern armies of the same size and based on the particularities of our country's territory and position.
In this context we propose:
the reorganization of the General Staffs and the Staffs of Formations, the
assimilation of the need for interdepartmental cooperation under a single entity,
the organization of the pyramid into smaller, smaller, smaller echelons, which will be more flexible and will be able to be transferred in a short time to forces with different missions,
the organization of new types of military sections that will allow the operational sections to be freed from guarding and commanding units.
2.2. For the "Human Resources" axis of our army
We believe that the optimal utilization of the human resources of our Armed Forces is the result of the care of five individual factors: morale, meritocracy, training, specialization, and discipline.
In this context we propose:
the broader social promotion and social recognition of the role and mission of our Armed Forces,
the immediate addressing of all the chronic problems that currently plague the members of our Armed Forces (salary, housing, pension, etc.)
the immediate removal of partisanship, unmeritocracy and mismanagement from all aspects of the organization of our Armed Forces,
We believe that the current reality of our country requires the reconfiguration of the needs of the Armed Forces in human resources, on the basis of the organization of an "army of peace" of highly trained, relatively small and readily mobilizable fighting forces,
along with the organization of the necessary structures to ensure both the maintenance of the operational capability of their reservists
and the ability to complete the deployment of their entire force in times of crisis or threat within a minimum period of time.
In this context we propose:
the basis of the "peace army" should be professional officers and privates, highly trained and qualified, accompanied by the reserves of the divisions,
the cadres of the "peace army" should be evaluated and assessed, be evaluated, assessedand promoted according to specific and absolutely meritocratic criteria;
the training, specialisation and skills of 'peace army' personnel should be updated and promoted through further training and, by analogy with all professions, through realistic lifelong learning.
As regards the issues related to compulsory military service and reserve, we believe that these too should be reviewed on the basis of the reconfiguration of the Armed Forces' manpower needs and the current reality.
In this context we propose:
the organization of a media advertising campaign to "change the image" of military service in the Greek public opinion, from "pointlessly wasted time" to an "honorary obligation" of Greek citizens,
the equation of the salary of conscript soldiers with the unemployment benefit of the OAED,
the insurance recognition of the time of military service at the expense of the State,
the granting of unemployment benefit by the OAED to all discharged reservists, for a period similar to that granted to employees who were dismissed after working for a period equal to that of military service, with a minimum period of six months,
the insurance of all conscripts in the event of injury or death during their service, and the
the institution of "receiving points" due to the performance of military service in all competitions for positions in the wider Public Sector and Local Authorities,
institution of the "obligation to fulfil military service" for all male candidates in competitions for recruitment to the security forces,
the limitation of the time of military service to the absolutely necessary time of training and specialisation with rational criteria, indicatively to 12 months,
and
in order to ensure a sufficient number of soldiers to meet the modern needs of the "peace army",
the institutionalization of the obligation of foreigners who wish to become permanent residents and citizens of our country to have military obligations equivalent to those of Greek citizens of their age, indicatively to serve in special services in a manner similar to those who choose, for religious or other reasons, unarmed service,
review the system of deferment of conscription and promote measures to enable conscription at a time appropriate to international standards, either immediately after completion of secondary education or after completion of the first cycle of higher education,
the creation of modern and realistic training and retraining programmes for reservists,
the establishment of a "special reserve scheme" for all employees of the wider Public Sector and Local Authorities up to the age of 35, with call-up and retraining rates depending on their military speciality and their service, indicatively for a period of forty days per two years.
- the review of the system for granting exemptions from military service.
2.3. For the "Equipment and Support" axis of our army
We believe that the equipment and support of our Armed Forces should be the best possible, limited only by Greece's financial capabilities
and we believe that the achievement of this goal depends on three conditions: a) maintaining the expenditure for the equipment of the armed forces as a basic and immediate priority of the state budget;
b) by the proper management of the money that we as a country spend on equipping our army, with clear procedures in the various armament programmes and a reduction of piecemeal and opportunistic purchases.
(c) by fostering the development of a strong and sustainable domestic war industry.
In this context we propose:
the rationalisation of our country's armament programmes on the basis of our real needs,
the creation of a new institutional framework for the approval of equipment needs, the way in which purchases are awarded and the control of the receipt of ordered equipment,
the effort to develop multiple arms reciprocal cooperation with our peer states,
the effort to develop in Greek industries departments which, exclusively or in parallel with the production of other products, will have the capacity to produce high quality and technological equipment,
seeking support for the procurement of armaments and equipment from domestic industries, wherever possible
the application of new methods of use and maintenance of high-tech equipment and means only by permanently qualified staff.
(Ministry of Public Administration and Internal Affairs, which will include the Deputy Ministry of Akritikos Ellada)
F.3. The PLO's Positions on Public Administration
3. Public Administration
We believe that Public Administration should be exercised with the sole focus on the interests of citizens and society, by Public Officers with a sense of responsibility and awareness of the importance of their function.
3.1. For the Central Public Administration
We believe that the unacceptable situation of the Central Public Administration that exists today, with corruption, partisanship and the suffering of citizens from the overlapping responsibilities of the public administration, should be reversed immediately.
We believe that the main objective of the changes needed in the central public administration is the abolition of the party state
and its replacement by an uncompromised central state mechanism of permanent employees, which will have as its main axes decentralization, computerization and networking of its services,
and which will aim at increased productivity and better service to citizens.
As we mentioned in the introduction, we believe that the central services of the Ministries and other Public Services should be compacted to the greatest extent possible with new organisational structures and a clear separation of responsibilities,
alongside their full representation at regional and county level.
In this context we believe that there should be a reduction of the Ministries to the following ten:
Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which will include the Deputy Ministry of Expatriate Hellenism
Ministry of National Defence
Ministry of Public Administration and Internal Affairs, which will include the Deputy Ministry of Akritikos Ellada
Ministry of National Economy and State Revenue, comprising the Deputy Ministries of Economic Planning and State Revenue
Ministry of Social Protection, which will include Deputy Ministries in the areas of Justice, Public Order and Disaster Management
Ministry of National Development, which will include Deputy Ministries in the fields of Trade, Agriculture, Tourism, Industry and Public Works
Ministry of Social Welfare, which will include Deputy Ministries in the fields of Social Welfare, Health, Labour and Social Security
Ministry of Education, which will include Deputy Ministries in the fields of Education, Culture, Sport and Religious Affairs
Ministry of Communications and Transport, which will include a Ministry of State for Maritime Affairs
Ministry of Environmental Protection, which will include Deputy Ministries in the fields of Environment, Planning and Energy
3.2. For the Regional Public Administration
We believe that there should be an administrative restructuring of our country into 20 Major Prefectural Regions (corresponding to the Electoral Regions of paragraph 1.8.2), governed by elected bodies, a Regional Governor and a Regional Council.
The Major Prefectural Regions should be networked with the organs of the Central Administration and should function as full representatives of the Central Administration in all matters concerning the citizens of their region, have full administrative and financial autonomy and have the ability to take decisions on all issues that concern them exclusively.
3.3. For local government
We believe that Local Government is an important factor in the social and political life of the Greeks, as well as
an essential lever for the spread of democracy, for the participation of citizens in public life and for the development of the entire Greek society.
That is why we are in favour of a Local Government that is substantial in terms of competences and content, operationally efficient, financially self-sufficient and administratively independent.
We also believe that there should be an institutionalization that the Municipalities and Communities, as local government bodies, should only deal with issues of local interest, and
that the legislative framework that allows for paid positions in the services and organizations of a Municipality to be given to the elected Councillors of the Municipality should be abolished.
On the major issue of waste management, we believe that this can be better dealt with at a more centralised level and we believe that the transfer of the relevant competence from the Municipalities and Communities to the Prefectural Regions is a step in this direction.
We also believe that the current waste management policy should be changed towards the abolition of landfills and their replacement by modern waste treatment and recycling plants, which will cover the needs of one or more neighbouring regions, in proportion to their population.
3.4. On the Control of Corruption in Public Administration
We believe that the current tendency to control corruption in the Public Administration with specific Audit Bodies for each Ministry and Service is of questionable effectiveness, makes access to citizens more difficult and significantly increases bureaucratic procedures.
We believe that special Audit Bodies are not needed, since the Court of Auditors and the Independent Authorities exist, what is needed is their reinforcement, and especially the Court of Auditors, with competences, personnel and material means.
We also believe that in order to more effectively combat corruption in the Public Administration, citizens' access to the competent control services should be facilitated as much as possible.
For example, there could be an employee of the Court of Audit in each building where services of the wider public sector are housed, with the exclusive responsibility of collecting and forwarding citizens' complaints.
3.5. For Akriti Greece
We believe that Akriti Greece, Epirus, Macedonia, Thrace and our islands are a part of our country with several special characteristics, and especially the responsibility of guarding the borders of our homeland.
At the same time, we recognise that for a number of reasons related to the policy choices of all past governments, these areas have not been developed to the extent that they could have been and that they have accumulated many chronic problems.
We also believe that we owe a special reference to the problems of Thrace, both because of its greater distance from the capital and because of the
existence of the Muslim religious minority
and the dangers of Turkey's attempt to turn them into a national minority.
We believe that the upgrading of all the necessary infrastructure, the improvement of the standard of living of its inhabitants
and the taking of the measures required to maintain the population ratio of Christians and Muslims in this region should be a key priority of every Government of Greece.
As far as our islands are concerned, we believe that their economic development and the maintenance, if not the increase, of their population should be treated as issues of key strategic importance for Greece.
In this direction, we believe that it should be a priority of the next government to address all their chronic problems, starting with those of their transport connection with mainland Greece and their energy self-sufficiency.
We also believe that all available resources of the European Union should be used to support the rights of their inhabitants to participate equally in communication, infrastructure upgrading and development.
(Ministry of National Economy and State Revenues, which will include Deputy Ministries of Economic Planning and State Revenues)
F.4. The PLO's Positions on the Economy
4. Economy
We believe that the economy and money are not simply technical quantities whose optimisation is an end in itself, but that they express the accumulated energy of a state, through the use of which its needs can be met and its aspirations realised.
We also believe that it is time to stop being reconciled to the idea of the "scab" and believe in the potential of both our country and ourselves.
We believe that the priority of our country's economic policy should be the robustness of both citizens and the state, with the first objective being the elimination of the income gap between the Greek and the European citizen.
We believe that it is unacceptable that today there are 2,000,000 Greeks living on incomes at the poverty line
and we believe that the wealth of our society must be redistributed in order to restore social justice and re-establish social stability.
4.1. For the Economic System
We understand that the "Free Market - Statism" dichotomy is still deeply engraved in the consciousness of the people of our time, but we believe that it has been overtaken by the conditions of the economic reality that exists today.
We believe that an economic policy system should now be defined on the basis of not one but three axes.
The first axis is the straightforward confrontation between the interests of "companies" and "citizens", do we want our economic policy to aim at creating "financially prosperous companies" or "prosperous citizens"?
The second axis is formed by the straight line of the confrontation in the decision-making capacity between "nation states" and the "European Union", do we want decisions on our national economic policy to be taken in Greece or in Brussels?
The third axis is formed by the straight line of the confrontation between the power of "multinational companies" and "nation states", do we want us to struggle on how to bring more multinationals to Greece or do we want multinationals to struggle on how to operate profitably in the conditions of Greece?
And, we believe, in order for a party to really answer what its proposal for the economic policy of our country is, it should give answers that include all three of these axes.
We believe that the answers to the first axis are determined by how we see the functioning of the state.
We believe that our state exists to provide its citizens with high quality services and social goods in a number of areas such as, but not limited to, security, employment, justice, health, or social welfare.
We believe that the answers to the second axis are determined by how we see Greece's relationship with the European Union.
And we have already answered that we believe in a European Union, in a Europe of nations and not of companies or of peoples.
We believe that the answers to the third axis are determined by how we see globalisation.
And we have already answered that we disagree with globalization that aims to create a barbaric humanity where profit, wealth and power will reign, a humanity in which the vast majority of people will be forced to live, think and move according to the dictates and moods of their masters.
4.2. On Economic Policy
We believe that history has proven that absolute economic models have failed, both liberalism because of the social injustices it causes and
socialism because of the problems it brings to the functioning of a state.
We believe that it would be a disastrous mistake to take Greece's economy in one of these two directions and we believe that the best solution is somewhere in the middle.
We believe both in the need for Private Initiative and the Free Market and the
need for responsible State Intervention.
4.2.1. For State Enterprise Activity
We believe in responsible and measured state intervention where fundamental human rights and our national interests dictate and require it,
and we believe that the planning of national development and labour policy, public finance and social security matters should be under the control of the state.
We believe that the entrepreneurial presence of the state is necessary in a few strategic sectors of our country such as energy, communications, transport, defence industry or utilities, with a productive, research, production and know-how transfer role, as well as a role
that prevents the creation of dependencies or cartels.
We believe that the state presence should take the form of a basic unit per sector, under state control and with a specific management and labour relations regime, in order to ensure their productive and efficient operation according to private sector criteria.
In this context, we also propose the creation of a network for the production and distribution of popular consumer goods under state control (clothing, footwear, household goods, children's items),
possibly in the form of public-private partnerships, with the
aim of containing the price of these items or restoring it to lower than current levels.
We consider as special cases of state entrepreneurship the various companies of Local Authorities and the Organizations or Laboratories for Quality Certification of services, products and companies, for which
we believe that it is necessary to establish high quality criteria for their operation, to evaluate them rigorously and to expand their role and their efficient activities.
4.2.2. For private entrepreneurship
We believe in Private Initiative and the Free Market as social action on behalf of and for the good of our society.
We believe that our country needs a humane operation of the laws of the market that will bridge, to the greatest extent possible, the gap between production and consumption, between the uncontrolled wealth of the few and the extreme poverty of the many.
We also believe that for the free market to function better and avoid the creation of cartels, there should be state control both at the stage of production or importation of a product
and in the determination of the minimum and maximum profit rate, leaving competition to determine its final price.
In the context of strengthening healthy private entrepreneurship, we propose:
a reform of the Development Law with the introduction of substantial business incentives alongside strict control for the achievement of subsidised results the
to create an Enterprise Development and Policy Agency, along the lines of the Japanese MITI, with activities such as preparing industrial and business strategy studies, providing advisory services and support to private enterprises, and rehabilitating ailing enterprises for sale or liquidation.
to restructure the Industrial Property Agency and expand its activities to include business research, development and innovation.
4.3. On Wage Policy
We believe that the continuous reduction of wages in Greece is one of the consequences of the two-party system,
a phenomenon which decimates the world of work and for which both New Democracy and PASOK are equally responsible, an anti-social and anti-democratic phenomenon which must be stopped.
We believe that private sector pay policy in the private sector needs to be addressed from the outset and put, through a process of dialogue, on a new basis.
We see as key points of this new positioning the overthrow of the relations of corruption and complicity between the political and economic establishment in our country,
the creation of a new institutional framework for work in the private sector, as well as
the reconstruction of labour-capital relations on the new models that will have been created.
We also believe that in order to restore the wage injustices that exist today, a "Minimum National Wage" should be established, which will be determined separately for each profession based on criteria of educational level, qualification, working hours and other objective qualifications, and will be
formed on the basis of equivalence with the corresponding average wage in the countries of the European Union and exceeding the "poverty line".
We believe that the remuneration policy of public sector employment should be rationalised by linking it to the corresponding salary of employees in similar positions in the private sector,
and individualised by linking it to the efficiency, productivity and integrity of each public servant.
We also believe that there should be a cap on the salaries of employees in the wider public sector, as well as in companies where the state holds the majority of shares.
We believe that this limit should be determined not by the salary of the President of the Supreme Court as it is today, but by a multiple of the corresponding "minimum national salary", indicatively we propose the "Sevenfold Principle" according to which no public salary can be higher than seven times the corresponding minimum national salary.
4.4. On Tax Policy
We believe that our current tax system is outdated, unfair and inefficient
and we consider the phenomenon of tax evasion as a practical reaction of the Greek people to the injustice suffered by the state.
We believe that the taxation of Greek citizens is particularly unfair in three respects: a) the size and extent of indirect taxes compared to direct taxes,
b) the fact that while individuals (citizens and partnerships) are taxed on gross income (turnover), legal entities (companies) are taxed on profits,
and c) the fact that the economic activity of the large number of illegal economic migrants is not taxed.
We also believe that the phenomenon of tax evasion will continue to exist as long as the sense of tax injustice continues to exist among citizens, regardless of any measures taken by the governments of the day to curb it.
We believe that there should be a drastic change in the current taxation framework, with a view to eliminating injustices in the taxation of Greek citizens.
We believe that there should be a reduction in the size and scope of indirect taxes, the
equalisation of taxation of individuals with that of companies,
and taxation at source of the economic activity of illegal economic migrants, with the provision that this will not constitute their regularisation.
We also believe that there should be a simplification of the Tax System, with a reduction of tax rates to modern international levels and the provision of strict penalties for offenders.
We believe that tax policy can and should also be used as a key tool to promote the growth of our economy.
We also consider as steps in this direction, the planning and taking of measures that will direct citizens and companies towards investing or reinvesting their profits
and creating new jobs, as well as their establishment in areas of special national interest for our country.
4.5. For the Privatisation of Companies in the Public Sector
We believe that Governments are elected to manage the fate and property of the Greek people, without being granted ownership of that property.
And we wonder how it's possible for someone to sell something they don't own.
We believe that the election of a government does not give it the right to sell off the property of the Greek people, the public companies that were built and developed from the Greek people's savings.
But we also believe that the tendency towards statism shown by PASOK in the first years of its government led to the existence of a number of companies in the wider public sector which are not strategic for our country and operate at a loss, burdening the state budget.
We believe that companies of this type should be privatised, either by acquisition by private investors or by their incorporation into multi-stakeholder public limited companies.
(Ministry of Social Protection, which will include Deputy Ministries in the fields of Justice, Public Order and Disaster Management)
F.5. The LA.O'.S.'s Positions on Justice
5. Justice
We believe that Greece must be a State of Law.
We also believe that a Rule of Law can neither exist nor be so called if justice does not function and is not administered in accordance with its high social role.
We believe that the operation of the Judiciary, independent of the Executive, is a necessary and fundamental element of the Rule of Law.
We also believe that this principle has never worked until today in Greece
as the supreme leadership of the Judiciary is appointed by the Council of Ministers, as provided for by the relevant constitutional provisions.
In today's Greece, the rule of law seems to have completely disappeared
and citizens no longer have confidence in the administration and enforcement of justice.
Corruption and corruption in public life, the delay in the administration of justice, the impunity of prominent and powerful persons and corruption among the officials of the judiciary are events that have seriously shaken the prestige of the institution that is the guardian of the institutions of the constitution.
We believe that this situation must change and that there must be a series of institutional changes that will lead to the consolidation of the Rule of Law in Greece.
5.1. On the Independence of the Judiciary
We believe that ensuring the independence of the judiciary from the choices of the government of the day is a key point for restoring the citizen's trust in the State and the law.
We believe that a series of changes should be promoted that will contribute to the independence of the Judiciary
and, as a first step in this direction, we consider the institutionalization of the appointment of the highest leadership of the Judiciary, as well as the heads of all the Courts, through internal elections of the members of the Judiciary, while at the same time establishing particularly high qualitative criteria for the curriculum vitae of the candidates who can be candidates for these positions.
At the same time, we consider as necessary conditions that the tenure of Judges should be guaranteed in order to avoid being easily replaced by external factors
and that the judgments for the promotion and transfer of Judges of all levels should be made exclusively on the basis of objective criteria and decisions of a special branch of the Judiciary.
5.2. About our Legal System
We believe that in a State, laws exist to be enforced and not to be overridden or fall into disuse
and we believe that there should be a radical overhaul of our Legal System and a "cleaning up" of the laws that will remain in force and those that should be repealed.
We believe that in a rule of law the application of the laws should be equal for all citizens, regardless of their political, social or economic power,
and we believe that for the application of the laws to be fair they must be at the same time short, precise, consistent, rigorous and uniform.
5.3. For the Immediate Administration of Justice
We believe that the current justice system has led to very long periods of time being required before a case is finalised, which often leads to a situation of virtual denial of justice.
We believe that this should be changed and a series of procedures should be put in place which, without bypassing the degrees of jurisdiction, the presumption of innocence and the thorough evidentiary process, will facilitate and speed up the adjudication of cases and reduce the workload of the Courts.
5.4. For the limitation of offences
We believe that the fact that our procedure provides for such short limitation periods for criminal offences is morally, politically and judicially unacceptable
and that this is something that not only shakes the moral foundations of Greek society but also violates the constitutional equality of Greeks.
We believe that this situation should be changed and we believe that for individual offences of a felony nature, particularly crimes against life, there should be no statute of limitations.
5.5. For Correctional Institutions
We believe that the Penitentiary system that exists today in our country is outdated and obsolete, both in terms of its building and human infrastructure and in its overall way of implementation and operation.
We believe that new, modern technology prisons should be created in each prefecture, with the aim of relieving the existing facilities, which, due to overcrowding, have desperate living and sanitary conditions.
Also, that the current status of the guards should be changed and a special Security Corps, the Judicial Police, should be created for the guarding and smooth operation of the Penitentiary Institutions.
We believe that the current regime of having common penitentiaries for criminal and civil convicts is unacceptable
and that civil and criminal justice should be separated in both the area of repression and correction.
Also, that the current prison leave regime is potentially dangerous and that it should be changed, including not granting leave to prisoners serving a sentence for felonies of a heinous nature.
5.6. For Offences of Special Social Significance
We believe that there are certain offences of particular social importance, such as, for example, the bribery of public officials, theft and misuse of public money, the setting up of judicial circles, drug trafficking or paedophilia and the rape of minors.
We believe that special legislation should be created for these offences, providing for strict exemplary punishments, such as life imprisonment or the death penalty, if they are accepted as punishments by Greek society.
5-Α. LA.O'.S.'s Positions on Security, Public Order and Security Forces
5-Α. Security, Public Order and Security Bodies
We believe that the concept of security in a Rule of Law involves two different parameters.
The first is the right of every citizen to enjoy his own life, his freedoms, his human rights and the goods he has acquired and possesses legally, without these being endangered or challenged by other people and by the various state mechanisms.
The second parameter is the obligation of the state to ensure the security of its citizens.
This is why we believe that the citizens of a state feel insecure when any of the above conditions are not met.
We believe that the concept of Public Order in a Rule of Law has only one meaning, the obligation of the state to protect and ensure the observance of its laws and the smooth, overall, functioning of the society of the people living in it.
This is why we believe that citizens of a state feel that there is a disturbance of the public order of their state when they witness situations that indicate that the normal social, economic or political life of their country has been disrupted.
We consider the Security Corps as the organization created by the state to fulfill its obligations towards its citizens in the matters of ensuring the security of its citizens and the maintenance of their normal, overall, social life.
5-A.1. On Security, Human Rights and Social Liberties
We believe that in a modern Rule of Law there are no dilemmas between security, rights and freedom, as the citizen's right to security includes respect for both his rights and his social freedoms.
We recognise that in a modern rule of law, questions often arise about the point where the boundary exists between a citizen's right to security and the right to social freedoms or human rights of another citizen.
However, we believe that these problems are created for two main reasons, the lack of a legal framework that clearly defines these limits,
or the failure of the Security Forces, for whatever reason, to comply with the procedures provided by law for the maintenance of public order.
5-A.2. On the role of the Security Bodies
We believe that the Security Bodies have a particularly complex and important role in the proper functioning of our society
and we believe that in order to respond effectively to this role they must be at the service of society as a whole, as dictated by the Constitution and our laws.
We believe that party bipolarity, with its out-of-bounds political power and in the name of the needs of globalisation, fosters anachronism and maintenance
so that, through an opaque repressive system, it transforms the Security Corps into a cruel protector and guardian of the political system with the prospect of inactivating the social, individual and labour demands of citizens and society.
We believe that the personnel of the Security Corps try to do their best every time, driven by a high sense of duty and awareness of the importance of their operation for the wider society,
but more often than not they step on the boundaries of governmental mandates aimed at serving partisan or globalization-related purposes instead of the more effective realization of the social role of the Security Corps.
5-A.3. On the problems of policing and insecurity of citizens
We believe that the increasing inability to police effectively in recent years is a complex problem that is more related to political decisions of the recent governments of New Democracy and PASOK than to problems, acts or omissions of the Security Forces.
We believe that the uncontrolled entry of illegal economic migrants was done with the tolerance and the guilty legislative inaction of the New Democracy and PASOK and has acted catalytically to the detriment of Public Order and the security of citizens.
We believe that the legalization of mafia and criminal elements with the involvement of the responsible state officials and institutions, party subjects of the New Democracy and PASOK, led to the systematization of organized crime and to the brazen behavior and actions of criminals that aggravate the insecurity of citizens.
5-A.4. On the problems of the Security Bodies
We believe that both the institutional framework and the conditions under which the Security Bodies, the Police, the Fire Brigade, the Coast Guard and the Forest Guard perform their work, present significant problems and need to be modernized and supplemented.
We believe that institutional measures should be taken to redefine the relations between the State, the Security Corps and society, as well as
to achieve a broader social recognition of the role of the Security Corps.
We believe that in order for the Security Corps to be able to carry out their mission and offer a safe environment for the citizen, the Government should solve the problems they have in terms of equipment, building infrastructure and the planning of the deployment of their human resources.
A number of long-standing institutional demands of their executives should also be addressed, such as the elimination of partisanship from them, the creation of a stable regulatory framework for merit-based promotions and transfers, or their exemption from tasks not related to public policy,
as well as to meet their legitimate economic demands.
(Ministry of National Development, which will include Deputy Ministries in the fields of Trade, Agriculture, Tourism, Industry and Public Works)
F.6. The Positions of the L.O.O.S. for the Development of Greece and the Greeks
6. For Development
We believe that Greece is a country with a lot of potential for state development
and that it is inhabited by people with great potential for personal development,
without, however, the real activation and realisation of the overall development potential of our country having been made possible to date.
We believe that this contradiction between the development potential and its realization is due to a series of reasons and state dysfunctions related to decisions of the governments of the New Democracy and PASOK, in the context of a general anti-people's direction of their policies.
For this reason, we believe that the first step towards a real development policy should be the systematic recording and abolition of all those methods that "put a brake" either on the realization of the potential for state development of Greece or on the realization of the potential for personal development of Greek citizens.
6.1. On Development Policy
We believe that our country's development policy can only be linked to the more general policy choices of the European Union for Sustainable Development as revised and presented in the 10917/06 decision of the Council of Europe.
Moreover, it must not ignore the reality of Greece's significant lagging behind the more developed countries of the European Union and actively aim for real convergence with them.
Finally, in the context of our anthropocentric vision of development, we believe that it should focus on unleashing the personal development potential of every Greek citizen.
6.1.1. For Sustainable Development
We believe, in line with the European Union, that Sustainable Development means that we must aim to meet the needs of the present generation without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs.
We propose the Sustainable Development model because it is the model of development that aims to ensure the capacity of the earth to support all forms of life
and is based on the principles of democracy, gender equality, solidarity, the rule of law and respect for human rights, including freedom and equal opportunities for all.
It also aims to continuously improve the quality of life and living conditions on Earth for the benefit of both present and future generations
and promotes a dynamic economy with full employment, a
high level of education,
health protection,
social and territorial cohesion and environmental protection in a peaceful and secure planet that respects cultural diversity.
We believe that the basic development needs of Greece are, at the same time, key objectives of the Sustainable Development model, such as:
a) the identification and development of actions that will enable the continuous improvement of the quality of life of both the present and future generations through the creation of sustainable human communities capable of efficient management and use of resources,
(b) promoting a healthy, just, safe and democratic society based on social inclusion and cohesion, respecting fundamental rights and cultural diversity, ensuring equality between men and women and combating all forms of discrimination,
(c) promoting a thriving, knowledge-rich, competitive, innovative and eco-efficient economy, ensuring a high standard of living, full employment and quality of work,
(d) meeting the needs of current generations without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their needs,
(e) ensuring that citizens can exercise their rights to access to information and ensuring their access to justice,
(f) strengthening citizens' participation in decision-making,
(g) better informing and raising public awareness on sustainable development issues,
h) informing citizens about their impact on the environment and the alternatives available to them to make more sustainable choices,
(i) strengthening social dialogue, corporate social responsibility and public-private partnerships to promote cooperation and shared responsibilities in implementing sustainable consumption and production patterns,
(j) ensuring that prices and real social costs of consumption and production activities are matched and that polluters pay for the damage they cause to human health and the environment.
6.1.2. To bring our economy closer to the more developed countries of the European Union
We believe that it is vital for Greece and for Greek citizens to pursue real convergence with the more developed countries of the European Union
and that this can only happen if a healthy development climate is restored, with clear objectives as to the directions of economic convergence, for the fulfilment of which the Greek State will provide the appropriate incentives.
In this direction, we believe that the public investment budget funds should be prioritized in strategic sectors for the upgrading of our country's infrastructure and productive base
and should be targeted mainly at the development of the problematic areas of Greece.
Also, we believe that there should be a fairer distribution of Resources and Subsidies, aiming at creating new jobs and not, as it happens today, subsidy policies for unemployment.
We also believe that in order to achieve real convergence with the more developed countries of the European Union, all of our country's potential for a more autonomous development policy should be exhausted,
especially in the face of EU initiatives aimed at limiting or eliminating the ability of its member states to pursue a development policy through tax and other incentives.
Finally, we believe that in order to achieve real convergence with the more developed countries of the European Union, it is necessary for our country to focus on the development of the primary
and the secondary sector of our economy, exploiting its natural wealth and our comparative advantages.
We must, at last, dare to exploit the oil of the Aegean and the Ionian Sea.
We must finally dare to exploit the gold, uranium and other rare minerals that lie beneath the surface of our country.
We must, at last, dare to bring to the surface and restore our antiquities.
6.1.3. For the Personal Development of Greeks
We believe that any development policy must be focused and driven by each individual citizen
, especially those who are most exposed to unemployment, isolation and social culture.
This dimension is inherent in the development model of Sustainable Development that we propose
and within its framework we believe that all necessary measures should be taken to protect and improve the physical, mental and spiritual health of Greeks
as well as their education and training,
as revised and presented in the Council of Europe's decision 10917/06 on Sustainable Development.
We also believe that a series of measures should be taken in order to initiate a change in the attitude of the broader state apparatus towards every Greek citizen who is trying to create and develop personally,
and to activate all those structures provided by the European Union to support the development of its inhabitants.
6.1.4. Development and problems of our society
We believe that Greek society, as it has been shaped by the governments of New Democracy and PASOK, is currently facing a series of major problems that threaten its cohesion and solidarity.
The weight of these problems is felt by all members of our society and we believe that addressing them is a matter of vital importance for Greece and that it must be, as far as possible, immediate and effective.
We believe that the problems of Greek society, as recorded in the polls today, are the result of development deficits and social exclusion.
And we believe that the development model of Sustainable Development that we propose for Greece, as described in the Council of Europe's decision 10917/06 on Sustainable Development, offers the approaches that lead to addressing and solving them.
6.1.4.1.1. On the importance of social norms
We believe that the issue of the importance of social norms is still a "taboo issue" for a large part of Greek society,
perhaps because of its association with the rhetoric of past and politically turbulent times in our history,
perhaps because our society is searching for reality between the "verbalistic ethics of the Prime Ministers" and the "greed of the government and party officials" of the recent governments of New Democracy and PASOK.
We also believe that the issue of the importance of social norms, as a model of the behaviours necessary for personal development and social acceptance and recognition, is a particularly important factor in the overall progress of our society.
We believe that a society with outdated, elliptical, dismissive, divisive or destructive norms can neither develop nor progress.
It can only be sustained for some time, in a vicious circle of passive acceptance, obfuscation, complicity and corruption,
until the point when either an "alarm" will "wake it up" and lead it to break the vicious circle, or a new, usually external, factor will break it up.
In this context, we consider it important to note the importance of social norms and their general role in personal, social and state development, according to the Council of Europe's decision 10917/06 on Sustainable Development.
Educating citizens and creating new social norms is a prerequisite for promoting and achieving the behavioural changes needed for Sustainable Development
and for providing all citizens with the basic skills needed for personal development, high quality employment, health and, in general, responsible citizenship.
In contrast to this modern tendency to promote new, more difficult but more functional and more developmental models,
in Greece there is still the phenomenon of the mass media preferring to focus the spotlight on issues that create the feeling that all you need to do to gain personal promotion and social recognition is to make a public fool of yourself, to expose your personal life or to advertise your personal psychological problems.
We believe that this situation must change and that the Mass Media must assume more responsibly the role of providing "entertainment", of providing "education of the soul", in Greek society.
6.1.4.2. On Unemployment
We consider unemployment as a problem that is a structural consequence of free market economic systems
and therefore we do not believe that there can be a "magic formula" for its solution.
At the same time, we believe that unemployment and the fear of unemployment are two key social problems that threaten social cohesion and which every government must address in the most effective way possible.
For us, tackling unemployment requires three-level planning: immediate relief measures for those affected,
creating the conditions for sustainable real growth and, by extension, jobs
and, finally, productive investment.
At all three levels, we believe that state intervention is needed at a better quality and to a greater extent than currently exists.
As for the other two levels, productive investment and the creation of the conditions for real growth, we have already mentioned them,
as well as job creation through the implementation of economic and fiscal policies and the
creation of strategic infrastructure and modernisation projects, which will lay the foundations for attracting global private sector investment.
As regards immediate relief measures for those affected, we believe that the current policy of subsidizing the unemployed should be transformed into subsidized employment for the same periods of time as today, either to temporarily cover vacancies in the wider public sector or to cover seasonal staffing needs of large companies.
This measure may also be extended for a longer period of time to cases of unemployed people of pre-retirement age, with the provision of graduated tax and other incentives to those companies that cover 20% or more of their recruitment of unemployed people in this category.
With regard to the unemployment of young people trying to enter the labour market for the first time, we believe that we should take advantage of the opportunities offered by the European Union and move towards the targets set by the Council of Europe's Decision 10917/06 on sustainable development,
such as the effort that all young people who have left school and are unemployed should receive an offer of a job, apprenticeship, additional training or other employability measure within a maximum of 4 months by 2010.
In concluding this point, we should note that the issue of the extent of unemployment among our fellow citizens is one in which most of us share responsibility.
We should realize that whenever we make choices of people to whom we entrust regular or extraordinary tasks, such as painting our house, or choose a product to buy, such as a shirt, we should always think about the fact that we are also choosing whether our money will give a job to a fellow citizen, an economic migrant in Greece or a person in another country of the world.
6.1.4.3. On demography and migration
We believe that the issues of demography and migration are particularly important and are directly related both to the development potential and prospects of Greece and the Greeks and to
a number of social problems, a view which is also included in the development model of Sustainable Development as described by the Council of Europe decision 10917/06.
On the issue of our demographic problem, we believe that this can be approached on two levels
. The first focuses on the labour needs of our society.
and avoiding the collapse of our pension systems due to the ageing of our population and changes in the relationship between workers and pensioners.
We recognise that these needs are urgent and immediate and we understand that a strictly controlled migration policy can solve them.
But to the extent that immigration is used to address our demographic problem, the second level of its consequences is created, the alteration of the population and the cultural identity of our country.
We agree that addressing the demographic problem is a necessary condition for maintaining social cohesion, solidarity between and within generations and ensuring and improving the quality of life of citizens, and
in this context we acknowledge the decisions of the European Union to actively support the efforts of its Member States to modernise both their social security and social protection systems,
as the adequacy of pensions will continue to be an important issue in the coming decades due to upcoming demographic changes and an ageing population.
We believe, however, that the strategic approach to the demographic problem through immigration is particularly dangerous for Greece as, due to the small number of its inhabitants, the proportion of its population has already been significantly altered.
Furthermore, we believe that Greek society should be more fully informed about the extent and consequences of its population change,
indicatively that according to UN and EU studies, the immigration inflows required to maintain the current ratio of workers to retirees are projected to have made residents of Greek origin a minority in the total population of Greece by 2050.
Finally, we propose that a referendum be held for the Greek people to decide whether or not they want this development,
with the L.O.S. expressing the position that we should vote considering that our ancestors fought and sacrificed their lives to make Greece Greek and free.
And not to keep their pensions high.
We believe that the demographic problem of Greece is particularly difficult to address and cannot be addressed by superficial measures.
And of course, we should note that the simple subsidy policy, such as that of the governments of the New Democracy and PASOK, not only does not solve but possibly worsens our demographic problem,
as it significantly and primarily strengthens not the average Greek family but the families of Greek residents with particular cultural characteristics, such as Muslims and Ethiopians, to the extent that it allows them to live without having to work.
We believe that in order to maintain at least the current population proportion of Greek-origin residents in Greece, measures are required that aim at a deeper change in the mindset and lifestyle of Greeks.
Aiming to recognise the value of the family and the reconciliation of work and family life.
Offering incentives for the birth of three or more children and rewarding the social contribution of large families.
Offering substantial support to single-parent families and single mothers.
In this context, and based on the actual current data of the Greek society, we believe that it is necessary to fully recognize the three-parent families as multiparent families and to fully grant them the benefits of the polygamy law.
Furthermore, we believe that we should limit the consequences of necessary, legal and strictly controlled immigration through social inclusion programmes and strategies, without adopting the solution of a multicultural society.
We believe that the solution that suits the particularities of Greece is that we should exploit the huge potential of the Greek cultural heritage and make economic migrants, and especially their children, partakers of Greek education, make them "partakers of daily education".
To ensure through a systematic and substantial provision of Greek education that their children "are Greek in soul and spirit".
Another aspect of the problems related to immigration is the issue of illegal economic migrants, an issue that has caused considerable suffering in Greek society.
We believe that the governments of New Democracy and PASOK, for some inexplicable reasons to Greek society, have implemented an immigration policy that practically invited a large number of illegal economic migrants,
even from our neighbouring countries that have, official or unofficial claims against Greece,
without any control over the quality of the people who came to our country, without any care for their survival and integration, without any consideration for their effect on the employment of Greek citizens practicing their respective professions.
We believe that the governments of the New Democracy and PASOK, for some inexplicable reasons to Greek society, chose to differentiate Greece's immigration policy from that of the rest of the European Union and to raise the number of immigrants to close to 18% of the total population of Greece, putting a huge pressure on Greek society that was called upon to integrate them.
We believe that this situation must be reversed and that we must implement a strict policy of controlling illegal immigration, similar to that applied by the other countries of the European Union, similar to that applied by European governments that respect the rights of their citizens.
6.1.4.4.4. On the impact of the EURO
We believe that our country's accession to the EURO zone has not only brought benefits for Greece but also a series of problems,
both at the level of the formulation of a national development policy, as the suffocating rules that follow it and its high relation with the dollar creates problems for our economy, exports and tourism, and at the
level of a general and significant increase in the prices of all basic consumer products.
We believe that a substantial and real assessment of the benefits and problems of the use of the EURO can now be made, that the Greek citizens can be informed of its conclusions
and then be asked to decide in a referendum whether they wish our country to remain in the Eurozone or to reintroduce the Drachma.
6.1.4.5. For our Banking System
We believe that our banking system is an obstacle to the development efforts of Greece and the Greeks as it has not been truly modernized, based on the standards of other countries in the European Union.
Also, we believe that a significant part of the whole operation of our banking system is done according to rules and attitudes of an earlier era when almost all banks were owned by the Greek State,
such as the banks' indifference to court decisions that vindicate consumers and their refusal to comply with and enforce them, the unjustifiably large, by European standards, difference between the interest rates on deposits and loans of banks, the "overdraft", the auction system, the usurious interest rates on credit cards, etc.
We believe that a number of measures should be taken in order to achieve a substantial and real harmonisation of our banking system with the standards of the European Union.
Among them, we propose to set limits on the difference between the interest rates on deposits and loans, with the minimum interest rate on deposits being directly equal to the current interbank rate and the maximum interest rate on loans being equal to twice the interbank rate.
The maximum interest rate on credit cards should not exceed the default rate.
Stop charging various fees (e.g. stamp duty) on bank loans.
Establish a cap on the increase of a loan from interest due (pantoccia), no loan should exceed three times the original amount.
We also believe that along with the banking system, the legal regime of auctions for monetary debts should be changed.
We propose that in order for an auction to take place, a final court decision must have been made, the initial starting price of the auction of a property should be set at the equivalent of its objective value and that loans for first homes should be guaranteed by the state and the first home should not be auctioned under any circumstances.
6.1.4.6. For "Habits Harmful to Health"
We believe that the concept of development of Greece and the European Union clearly includes the improvement of the overall level of health of their citizens.
In this context and in line with the Council of Europe's Decision 10917/06 on Sustainable Development, we consider it necessary to prepare and implement strategies and measures aimed at preventing and reducing the impact of a number of harmful lifestyle-related health habits, such as drugs, tobacco, excessive alcohol consumption, lack of physical exercise or inappropriate diet, as well as
improving mental health and reducing suicide.
We believe that the problems of drugs and alcohol are more important for Greece than for other countries in Europe,
as we have the highest number of deaths from drug use and one of the highest rates of increase in youth alcohol consumption.
We also believe that in order to address them, additional measures and strategies are needed that focus on the specific conditions of Greek society, including the prohibition of advertising of drinks and cigarettes in any way,
the creation of rehabilitation centres in every prefecture and the opening of rehabilitation programmes to all users who want to join them.
6.1.4.7. On Crime
We believe that crime undermines the development of any society
and we believe that the observed increase in crime in Greece is the result of many factors, among which we highlight the breakdown of the social fabric and the reduction of social cohesion, the increase in unemployment, the increase in social exclusion, "imported crime", as well as the commonly acknowledged problems in policing and the administration of justice.
We believe that in order to reduce crime and improve the sense of security of citizens, measures are needed at many levels, the
first of which is the reorganization of our police force to European standards, the coverage of its shortcomings in personnel and training, the reorganization of police departments and the release of police from unrelated services.
On the issue of "imported crime", we believe that it is an issue directly related to the large number of illegal economic migrants, the problems of survival they face and the creation of closed groups of illegals among them, which the police find it difficult to enter and control.
Furthermore, we believe that in order to reduce the problem of imported crime, we must take all the measures that have already proven effective in other countries of the European Union that faced this problem earlier than us, such as France or England, no matter how strict they seem to the average Greek citizen.
6.2. For Trade
We believe that we need to reform and simplify the bureaucracy of our tax and insurance system which acts as a deterrent to the creation of commercial and other businesses.
Also, that incentives and subsidies should be extended for businesses that create new jobs or expand in Greece in order to develop economic activity.
We believe that SMEs are the "backbone" of the Greek economy, they fit the specificity of the Greek social structure, especially in the provinces and small urban centres, and reflect the traditional Greek tendency for autonomous economic activity.
We believe that a number of measures should be taken to maintain and strengthen them, including simplifying the bureaucracy for their establishment and operation,
ensuring cheap money for their working capital
and cracking down on unfair competition from illegal street vendors.
Within the above framework, we believe that there should be a liberalisation of the opening hours of shops,
combined with a strict control of the working hours of their employees, in order to create new jobs
and to favour small family businesses that can operate flexibly according to the needs of their area, even in periods when the operation of large department stores is unprofitable.
6.2.1. For the Trade Balance and Exports
We believe that the current trend of increasing our trade deficit undermines the foundations of our development efforts, as it leads to an increase in our external debt and dependence, and must be reversed.
To this end, we believe that a number of measures should be taken, first among which we propose: (a) the reunification of export-related responsibilities in the Ministry of Development;
(b) the simplification of bureaucracy and the reduction of polygamy, by abolishing the outdated or overlapping laws and provisions that currently govern our export trade; (
c) the upgrading of the National Export Council; (
d) the systematic use of the internet;
and (e) the development of training programmes for the training of executives specialised in export trade.
At the same time, there should be a systematic use of all forms of activities that create publicity about Greece for information and promotion of Greek products,
reinforcing the diplomatic offices of the Commercial Attachés with special advisers,
the creation of special chambers and the development of bilateral relations with counterpart organisations in other countries,
expanding the number of exported product categories beyond those considered as "traditional" Greek products,
searching for and exploiting new markets, and re-entering markets lost in the past,
as well as subsidies to improve the quality and standardization of the products we produce while utilizing widely known elements of Greek Mythology and History in their names.
Finally, we consider the immediate reorganization of our Customs Service and the rational use of its staff as an important factor for the development of our export trade.
We believe that Customs Offices for Import and Export should be created at every point of entry and exit from our country, with all the necessary services for the control of imported and exported products.
Also, that there should be a reconstitution of the Anti-Smuggling Service, with all the powers that will make it effective, and in which the existing internal Customs should be integrated in order to focus on fighting smuggling within our country.
6.3. For Primary Production (Agriculture, Livestock, Fisheries)
We believe that the primary production sector in Greece has a number of special characteristics, compared to other countries of the European Union,
and at the same time a significant contribution to the Greek economy as it employs 20% of the active population of our country and has the highest share in GDP among the countries of the European Union.
We believe that the specific characteristics of agriculture, livestock farming and fisheries in our country, such as the large number and small size of farms, the agricultural abandonment of mountainous areas and the intensification of the exploitation of lowland areas, the fact that the majority of livestock units are free-range animals, or the nature of our fisheries, are reflected in their needs and in the type of pressures currently exerted on them.
We believe that supporting the primary sector in Greece must be an essential priority of every government, with the implementation of a policy that will balance its economic, ecological and social needs and guarantee its preservation and development.
We believe that this policy should aim at changing the old mentality based on subsidies and adapting it to the new European Agricultural Policy.
In the above context, we propose the systematic information of farmers on modern farming practices
and the implementation of a programme of extensive crop restructuring towards the production of products with Designation of Origin and Geographical Indication, organic crops, traditional products of Greek agriculture, energy crops for the production of biofuels and raw material crops, as well as the promotion of fodder crops.
Also, the promotion of organic livestock farming and the systematisation of ruminant breeding.
Finally, to promote the development of fisheries awareness and the use of practices that balance fishing effort and protect fish stocks.
We also believe that a series of structural measures should be taken, such as the registration and demarcation of land use zones, the registration and concentration of abandoned and uncultivated land, the expropriation and redistribution of land to professional farmers and livestock farmers, tackling the over-indebtedness of farmers, livestock farmers and fishermen, supporting and strengthening agricultural cooperatives, restructuring the Agricultural Bank and establishing a chamber and auction houses for agricultural products.
6.4. For Tourism
We consider tourism as a key factor for growth and employment, which has begun to present structural and infrastructural problems, saturation points and has been associated with significant environmental pollution and degradation
. The shift towards mass tourism, overcrowding on beaches, high water demand and consumption, the production of large quantities of solid waste, the need to meet electricity requirements, and medical and other health services, which are often inadequate during peak tourist periods, are all problems that need to be addressed.
We believe that the design of a new long-term tourism policy is needed, aiming at attracting high quality tourism, developing alternative forms of tourism and extending the tourist season.
This new tourism policy should be supported by the modernization and upgrading of the transport and reception infrastructure for tourists, the
reduction of bureaucracy for the establishment and expansion of tourism businesses,
incentives for the establishment of tourist units in earthquake-prone areas of the country where there is hesitation to create them, the
promotion of the sights and cultural tradition of each region and the upgrading of existing museums or the construction of museums in every prefecture of the country.
Finally, we propose two interventions that we believe will contribute significantly to increasing the number of tourists visiting our country: the conversion of the open-air archaeological sites into archaeological parks with the restoration of the ruins that exist in them today, and
the permanent, every four years, holding of the Meso-Olympics, which will be held in facilities to be erected in the wider area of ancient Olympia and in which only amateur athletes will be able to participate.
6.5. For Industry
We consider industry as the most underutilized and, at the same time, the most affected by globalization sector of the Greek economy,
as, after a period of de-industrialization of our country, its growth rate is significantly below that of the services and transport sector.
We believe that our industry today is facing new opportunities created by the substitution of fuels, with an emphasis on the rapid penetration of natural gas, the
promotion of Renewable Energy Sources alongside autonomous power generation and the exploitation of the liberalisation of the electricity market, the
establishment and expansion of solid material and waste dismantling and recycling plants and waste management and recycling plants.
In order for our industry to be able to take advantage of these opportunities, immediate institutional changes are needed to enhance its competitiveness
, better manage resources and create innovations, and
protect the environment.
We believe that providing incentives and taking measures to strengthen domestic industry is of primary importance for all businesses that wish to maintain their factories in Greece
and survive in the new and highly competitive environment of the globalised economy and the liberalised European market,
under unfavourable conditions shaped by the limited size of our internal market, the very small average size of businesses and the loss of the advantage of low labour costs.
At the same time, however, we believe that it is both imperative and necessary, as experience has shown that their absence leads to the transfer of factories to our neighbouring countries with dramatic consequences for employment and the overall economic life of entire cities in Greece.
6.5.1. For Productivity
We believe that Greece's chronic lag in productivity is not only due to the general technological and organizational structure of our country
but also to the prevailing social norms of "minor effort" and "corruption" that have a catalytic effect on the effort and performance of Greek workers.
6.6. For Public Works
We believe that our country still lags significantly behind in basic infrastructure and development projects in many sectors, both in the capital and the big cities and in the wider region.
We also believe that the important public works that have been carried out in recent years in our country have been the subject of a transaction between the governments of New Democracy and PASOK and the owners of large construction companies, who as a rule are also owners of the media.
We believe that there are many more public works to be done in our country
and that these should be done with the real development needs of Greece in mind and not the need of the ruling party for financiers and supporters in the media.
That they must be done in a way that safeguards the interests of citizens and not the owners of the companies that will build them,
with transparency in their assignments, with respect for the timetable and the quality of their construction,
with care for the preservation of the environment.
We believe that a new state organisation should be created, similar to the technical services of the municipalities or ERGOSE, which will make use of the scientific and technical potential of the country
and will be a body for the employment of unemployed people for a limited period of time, similar to that of unemployment benefits, if they wish.
This body will operate on a private-sector basis and will be responsible for all public works that are not co-financed by the European Union or do not require a competitive tender.
It will also act as the supervising body for all other public works carried out by private construction companies and will be responsible for their acceptance and quality assurance.
For those major public works that are subject to EU control and require an international tender for their award to construction companies, we propose to separate the construction process into individual stages: preliminary design, technical design and construction of the project,
each of which will be the subject of a separate international competitive tender, the conditions of participation being "the acceptance that the company which undertakes a stage is not entitled to participate itself, or its affiliated companies, in a subsequent stage of the same project" and that "the company which undertakes a stage is responsible for the award and completion of all procedures for the subsequent stage".
(Ministry of Social Welfare, which will include Deputy Ministries in the fields of Social Welfare, Health, Labour and Social Security)
F.7. The PLO's Positions on Social Welfare, Social Welfare, Health, Labour and Social Security
7. Social Care
We believe that Social Care, the care for all and especially the weaker members of a society, is a necessary condition for maintaining social cohesion
and its importance is maximised in line with the degree of social differences in income, education and access to services and goods.
We believe that Social Care in Greece has a significant deficit compared to the more developed countries of the European Union,
and that this deficit reflects the perception of the Greek State, the governments of the New Democracy and PASOK, of its citizens and its behaviour towards them.
We believe that it is now a matter of vital importance for Greece to have a change in the mindset of the Greek State on Social Care, towards a more human-centred direction, towards a more friendly direction for the weaker and more exposed to social exclusion citizen.
Towards a political direction of a State, a Government and a Public Administration that respects, protects and promotes all fundamental human rights,
that combats all forms of discrimination
and that aims to reduce poverty and eliminate all forms of social exclusion.
7.1. For social welfare
We believe that the concept of Social Welfare should be uncoupled from the one-sided perspective of subsidy support
and shifted towards a policy of addressing wider social exclusion and its consequences.
Also, towards a policy of actively promoting social cohesion and solidarity and the development objectives of our society.
We believe that Social Welfare actions, in the context of tackling wider social exclusion and its consequences, should aim at supporting people who are most exposed to social exclusion, the unemployed, people with incomes below the poverty line, people with disabilities, the uninsured, the homeless, children and elderly people, groups with particular cultural characteristics.
These actions should be implemented on the basis of interventions that aim not only to provide simple relief to those affected
but also to address the factors that led them to this situation
and, if possible, to remove the further impact of these factors on our society.
We believe that Social Welfare actions, in the context of a policy of active promotion of social cohesion and solidarity, should aim at removing social inequalities and addressing the problems of our society.
We believe that the fundamental objectives of these actions must be social justice and clear rules in all aspects of economic and social life,
the fight against the income inequality that plagues Greece,
the provision of jobs and housing to all Greeks who did not want or could not settle for a buffet, the
creation of conditions for the social integration of people with special needs,
the effective support of the family, maternity, children and the elderly.
We believe that social welfare should be developed in the form of a decentralised "Social Services Delivery Network" that will be adequately staffed, supported by the necessary funding and supervised by a new central coordinating body.
We also consider it important that this network be as close as possible to the citizen in need and we propose that it be developed at local government level, on the basis of municipalities and municipal districts, in analogy with the operation and structure of the "Help at Home" programme.
This network should be able to have direct access and information to all public services related to social exclusion issues, in order to have real-time information on the need for intervention and to carry it out immediately.
We believe that the priority of this network should be the recording of the real needs of Greek society in social welfare, with a record of the people and groups that need it and the appropriate, according to international standards, interventions required to alleviate them.
7.1.1. For Welfare Benefits of Special Social Significance
We believe that among the broader framework of Social Welfare actions there are some which are of particular importance as they aim to actively promote the development objectives and address the development problems of our society
.We also believe that these actions should be specified as "Benefits of Special Social Importance", funded separately and should be a priority of our country's budget.
We believe that the management of "Benefits of Special Social Importance" should be entrusted to an independent "Single Social Benefits Agency" which we propose to be created by the evolution and restructuring of the current OGA.
Among the benefits to be administered by this organisation we believe that it should include:
a) the granting of the Minimum National Pension to all citizens after the age of 65, if they have an annual income of less than 7,500 Euros.
b) the granting of a Living Allowance to all long-term unemployed, after the expiry of the period of their subsidy from the O.
c) the granting of a Housing Allowance, to the polygamists, to young couples and to any family or citizen with an income below the poverty line, in order to fully cover their objective housing needs.
d) the granting of a Basic Needs Allowance to every family or citizen with an income below the poverty line, to cover their actual basic needs for water, electricity and telephone communication.
e) the creation, in every prefecture of our country, of organised facilities for the free temporary accommodation of families and persons belonging to groups with particular cultural characteristics who are not served by living in permanent housing. (
f) the creation, in every county of our country, of organised facilities for the provision of shelter and food for the homeless and the outcasts of society;
(g) the creation, in every county of our country, of Emotional Support Centres for those with psychological or emotional problems, the elderly, the lonely and the desperate.
(h) the granting of an Emergency Needs Allowance to all those who are unable to meet their financial obligations due to unforeseen events or who have been affected by the consequences of catastrophic natural phenomena. (
i) the granting of an Infant Care Allowance to all mothers after the birth of a child, at an amount which will be graduated according to the number of children born to the woman in question;
(j) the granting of free travel cards on the urban public transport system of the city in which they reside to families with many children, people with disabilities and any family or citizen with an income below the poverty line
7.1.2. For People with Special Needs (PWD)
We believe that the issue of social exclusion of people with disabilities and the measures necessary to avoid it is a major challenge for every society and concerns all infrastructures and sectors of its organisation.
We believe that Greek society still lags behind, compared to the more developed countries of the European Union, in its overall attitude towards people with disabilities
and that changing this very attitude of Greek society should be the first objective of any action to avoid the social exclusion of people with disabilities.
We also believe that a series of measures are necessary that will address both the overall and the specific needs of each category of people with disabilities,
measures that should be taken after social dialogue and in cooperation with organisations of people with disabilities.
Among the necessary measures we believe that the operation of rehabilitation centres that will cover all the needs of people with disabilities should be included,
providing financial and psychological support to people with disabilities and their families,
respecting accessibility for people with disabilities to infrastructure, transport, services and information,
the introduction of special educational, occupational, social security and tax arrangements for people with disabilities and their families,
as well as the creation of the structures that will support their independent living in our society.
7.1.3. For non-governmental organisations (NGOs)
We believe that NGOs are a positive expression of "civil society", which is awakening and consciously seeking to fill the gaps in government policies on various issues of minor or major, local or international, social interest.
At the same time, we do not ignore their connection to Globalisation, the fact that they are actively funded by organisations that promote it, that they are used as alibis by it and that their way of acting creates in the citizen who participates in an NGO the feeling that he or she can react to the limitations of state power and improve the local or global, depending on the NGO, society.
We believe that the way NGOs are organized and operate in Greece creates risks for the de-politicization of citizens and their distancing from the important events of the central political scene.
We wonder about the reasons that might make a thoughtful, aware and potentially active citizen engage with an NGO instead of focusing on the problems of his or her workplace or the wider social and national problems of Greece
and we do not fail to recognise that the growth of NGOs is linked to the reduction in the number of people involved in political parties, trade unionism or local organisations.
We believe that in order to maximize the benefits that NGOs can offer in Greece and to minimize the consequences of their development, a new institutional framework for their operation must be created, which will activate and not disorient the citizen's willingness to participate in the public sphere, a framework that will take into account the experience of other EU countries and will adapt it to the specificities of Greek society.
7.2. For Health
We believe that the right to health is a natural human right and that the right to equality in health is the foundation of social cohesion and is equivalent to the natural right to birth, life and death.
We believe that health is much broader than being free from pain or stress, and we note that the World Health Organization defines it as "a state of complete physical, mental and spiritual well-being, not simply the absence of symptoms or disease".
This is the Health we want to offer to the Greek people.
We believe that with the progress of human society, the increase in medical knowledge and intervention possibilities, the rise in average life expectancy and the rising cost of health services, the challenges for the provision and demand for health services are gradually shifting, at the international level, from the treatment of diseases to policies for their active prevention.
And we believe it is high time that the same thing happened in Greece.
We believe that Greek society needs a new health policy, with a perspective that recognises the importance of health for the achievement of Sustainable Development goals and social cohesion.
We believe, in line with the European Union and the Council of Europe decision 10917/06, that the new health policy needed in Greece should, among other things, aim at: a) promoting good public health and improving protection against health risks,
b) emphasis on the broader determinants of health and on appropriate strategies to improve health and prevent disease,
(c) slowing down the increase in chronic and lifestyle-related diseases, particularly among socio-economically disadvantaged groups and regions,
d) the reduction of health inequalities both within Greece and in relation to other EU countries,
(e) increasing attention to vulnerable population groups, in particular children,
(g) the adoption and implementation of strategies to help men and women acquire and maintain a positive psychological disposition, improve mental health and address the risks of suicide,
(h) further improving food and feed legislation, including a review of food labelling,
(i) improving information on environmental pollution and its negative effects on health,
(j) ensuring that by 2020 chemicals, including pesticides, are produced, processed and used in a way that does not pose a significant threat to human health and the environment.
7.2.1. For the provision of health services and the Single Health Authority
We believe that the current situation with multiple insurance funds, each of which has its own policy on health services, leads to significant inequalities in access to health services and an increase in their cost, is anachronistic and creates significant problems in the financial elements of the current health system.
We believe that this situation must change.
We believe that the Health Sectors should be separated from the sectors of other benefits in all insurance funds
and unified into a Single Health Agency, through whose exclusive funding all state policy in the health sector will be exercised.
The financing of the Single Health Insurance Fund will come from two sources: on the one hand, from the collection of a special levy to be imposed on all economic activities related to health care,
and on the other hand, from the revenue from the Value Added Tax from economic activities in the health sector.
The Single Health Authority, once the appropriate institutional framework is in place,
a) will issue to all citizens an Electronic Health Card through which they will receive its benefits,
b) will oversee the implementation of a uniform computerisation in all the units providing wider health services,
c) conclude National Collective Agreements with all natural and legal persons providing health care and health services, including Complementary and Alternative Medicine services already recognised in at least three other countries of the European Union, such as Homeopathy and Acupuncture.
d) will purchase services from both the public and private health sector in Greece, as well as from foreign countries when required, and will offer them equally to all Greek citizens, depending on their needs.
e) will oversee the replacement of the current NHS by a broader National Health System which will include the EHIC, the Public Hospitals, 15% of the beds of the Private Hospitals, the Health Centres, the branches of the IKA, the Municipal Clinics and the family doctors.
7.2.2. For the NHS and the National Health System
We believe that the NHS, in its current form and the way it operates today, neither meets expectations nor covers the real health needs of Greeks.
It is in disrepair, with many shortcomings in staff and infrastructure, staffed on the basis of party and other friendships and not meritocratic procedures, a situation that is clearly shown by the phenomena of decadence that are endemic in our hospitals such as envelopes, cockroaches and ranches.
We believe that this situation must change.
We believe that the current NHS should be replaced by a National Health System that will be reliable,
that will provide free health services of high quality to all residents of Greece regardless of their socio-economic level and place of residence,
that will operate in a way that will eliminate the phenomena of complication and corruption that currently plague the health sector.
A system that is patient-centred, that operates with the patient and his needs at its centre, and not with the aim of avoiding the collapse of the insurance funds or the interests of certain labour unions.
A system designed to favour decentralisation and service to all Greeks, not just those living in the big urban centres.
We believe that a modern health system, such as the National Health System we propose, must be organized in a way that covers all levels of the citizen's health needs, including the ambulance, rehabilitation centers and units for the chronically ill and terminally ill.
For its development, we believe that the current legal status of Public and Private Hospitals, Health Centres, Municipal Clinics, clinics and branches of IKA, as well as all businesses and professionals that provide primary care and health services, needs to be changed, with the establishment of quality criteria in terms of infrastructure, staff and operating conditions.
7.2.3. Necessary corrective interventions in individual health issues and the NHS, based on their current operating status
For reasons of political pragmatism, we consider it appropriate to make a number of observations on necessary corrective interventions on individual health issues and in the NHS, which are required immediately based on their current operational status.
Establishment of a quality certification body for Health Services.
Single compulsory computerisation in all service units of the broader health sector and the introduction of a Medical Register Number for each doctor, which will be indicated on each medical act in order for it to be valid.
Recosting of medical procedures, but also of the supply of nursing equipment, which will be done objectively and will be representative of the current reality and not fictitious as is the case today.
Payment for the products and services provided must be made within a specified period of time from the issue of the relevant document.
There should be a doctor for every Greek citizen, even in the most remote areas.
We propose as an incentive to doctors for the decentralization of the services provided, the objective taxation of medical practices according to the objective value of the area in which they are located.
Dispensaries in the Province and on the outlying islands will be taxed minimally or not at all, as appropriate.
Implementation of the Family Doctor, who will be in charge of the management and provision of primary health care in the province and especially in the border areas.
In large urban centres where there is a shortage of doctors, a system of free choice of doctor is proposed.
Design of specialised lifelong training programmes, which will be compulsory and free of charge for all doctors.
Implementation of the institution of Emergency Departments, which will be full independent medical units capable of covering emergency cases 24 hours a day and will be located wherever their existence is needed.
EKAV should be upgraded to a full medical-information centre, with the possibility of providing telephone advice from an experienced doctor for the immediate treatment of acute cases until the patient's evacuation, the possibility of sending an EKAV doctor to the home, 24-hour availability of a sufficient number of ambulances and proper organisation of air transport of patients.
Development of a National Road Network Emergency Assistance Department with specialized trauma units that will be on 24-hour standby to treat road accident victims immediately and effectively.
Supply of all Hospitals and Health Centres with the appropriate and necessary equipment as well as with the corresponding specialised staff, with emphasis on border areas, and
use of Tele-Medicine technology to support remote areas.
Full staffing of the existing provincial hospitals and construction of new ones, where there is no building infrastructure, so that each capital of the prefecture has a full General Hospital with all specialties, capable of coping with the needs of the prefecture and will support with laboratory infrastructure, the entire health network of its area of responsibility.
Reorganization and establishment or increase of beds in Intensive Care Units, Intensive Care Units and Day Care Units in all public hospitals, especially in the provinces.
Reorganization and establishment or increase of beds in Rehabilitation and Terminal Care Units in all public hospitals, especially in the provinces.
Creation of an official job description for all categories and levels of hospital staff.
Provision of ambulances to each hospital for the service of its patients and home help and hospitalization.
All hospitals will be on call 24 hours a day and will provide only tertiary care, while other levels of care will be covered by family or private doctors and T.E.P.s.
The salaries of the doctors of the National Health Service must be adequate for each specialty, depending on the working relationship chosen by each doctor, and not based on the number of on-call days, real or fictitious.
An NHS doctor who has been proven to be a bribe taker should be deprived of his licence forever.
Implementation of the institution of itinerant medical professors, who will visit and provide special medical services in provincial hospitals, in cooperation with the staff of each hospital.
Inclusion of counselling and psychological support services in the broader system of benefits provided by social security funds and the creation of relevant services in all schools and higher education institutions.
Change the current legal status of private hospitals and private primary health care units, with the establishment of uniform criteria for their operation in terms of infrastructure, staff and quality control of the services they provide.
- Establishment of a minimum percentage obligation (15%) for the provision of services to the insured persons of public insurance funds, all enterprises and professionals providing health care and health services.
7.2.4. For the administration of medicines
We believe that medicine is a social good and should be available to all those who need it, regardless of their financial situation,
and we propose the free distribution of medicines to the chronically ill, the disabled, minors and the elderly, large families, low pensioners, the unemployed and the needy.
We believe that the current system for the distribution of medicines is complicated and bureaucratic, and
that it operates in a way that burdens the insurance funds both in terms of money and man-hours,
and we believe that it should be changed in a direction that will make it more flexible and more cost-effective.
In this context, we propose the upgrading of pharmacists and record keeping so that every patient has direct access to the medicines used for a chronic condition without the mediation of a doctor's visit.
We believe that the current way of pricing medicines has created many dysfunctions in the pharmaceutical market and has led to the shrinkage of the Greek pharmaceutical industry.
We believe that measures should be taken and incentives should be given both for the re-development of the pharmaceutical industry and pharmaceutical research in Greece, for example by promoting the use of "generics" produced by Greek companies by state-controlled institutions, and for
the cultivation and exploitation of the variety of medicinal plants grown in Greece.
7.3. For the Work
We believe that the importance of Work for human beings is much broader than the sum of employment and pay, as it includes components that touch all aspects of human personality and psychology.
In this context, we believe that work is one of the basic and fundamental rights of every human being,
a right that every constituted state must respect, protect and ensure that every citizen can exercise it.
We believe that there must be a new, broader policy to support the right to work, to address the specificities of the Greek labour market and to minimise the effects of globalisation on the Greek worker.
To this end, we propose a series of measures: a) the establishment of a "De-industrialisation Management Agency" to deal with the problems of entire cities or regions facing a generalised increase in unemployment due to the removal of industrial plants,
b) the establishment of a "Social Work Needs Management Agency" which will record social work needs and ensure that they are met by the long-term unemployed or underemployed who wish to earn extra income,
c) the transformation of the OAED schools into public schools of "lifelong training" and "retraining", open to any worker who wishes to attend them and with subsidies for those who attend them,
d) the restructuring and modernisation of the Labour Inspectorate and the establishment of objective criteria of the man-hours required for each job, based on the principle of value added by human labour and international productivity standards, in all sectors of productive and economic activities based on,
to combat the phenomenon of "undeclared work" and to promote the protection of family life for private sector workers.
e) the restructuring of the OAED with the integration of the National Centre for Vocational Guidance into it,`
as well as its modernisation along the lines of the management of all European Union programmes for employment and self-employment, the redesign of the system of supply and demand for jobs
as well as creating conditions for the labour market integration of people with disabilities and other socially excluded groups.
On the issue of the remuneration of labour in Greece, we have already referred to paragraph 4.3. of the text which refers to our positions "on Wage Policy".
On the question of trade unionism, we have already referred to paragraph 1.13. of the text which refers to our positions "on trade unionism".
On the issue of tackling unemployment, we have already referred to paragraph 6.1.4.2. of the text, which refers to our positions "on unemployment".
7.3.1 The Constitutional provision on the equality of Greek citizens in the "right to work" and its application to the issue of "working conditions"
We believe that Labour in Greece presents particularities and distortions that, on many levels, are in violation of the Constitutional provision for equality of Greek citizens.
The partisanship of the public administration and the buffet, family rule and anarchocracy, the closed circles of well-known organisations, the groups of friends or "classmates from private school A or B", limit the equality of Greek citizens in the "right to work" and create conditions of social exclusion.
We believe that the Constitutional provision for equality in the right to work includes equality in the issue of working conditions
and we believe that the currently institutionalised existence of two tiers of workers in relation to their rights and the permanence of their work violates the equality of Greek citizens as regards the right to work.
We believe that in order to restore the constitutionally provided equality in the right to work, the State must treat the issue of working conditions and occupational safety of all Greeks in the same way.
As first immediate steps towards this direction we propose: a) that the employment facilities of pregnant women and new mothers working in the private sector be equalized with those of workers in the wider public sector,
b) the National Minimum Wage for the private sector should be equalised to the wage of a newly qualified public sector employee,
and c) the level of the Unemployment Benefit should be brought into line with the Living, Housing and Basic Needs Allowances described in 7.1.1., to be equalized with the minimum wage of the newly entering Public Servant and its granting to be extended in time, until the point in time when every Greek citizen either finds a job or reaches the retirement age.
Alternatively, we propose a referendum in which the Greek people will be asked to decide whether they want the total implementation of the public sector labour model or the total implementation of the private sector labour model.
7.4. For Social Security
We believe that the concept of Social Security, as it is implemented in our Social Security system, reflects the facts of the past and is clearly outdated and anachronistic.
Today we have a social security system that seems to have been designed not with the interests of the workers in mind, but with the plundering of their money and the reserves of their funds by the state, or by ruling party officials, as well as
the maximisation of opportunities for party bribe recruitment.
These, at least, are the clearest results of its operation to date.
We agree with the other parties that our pension system needs reform for reasons related to the adequacy of its structures, the reduction of its financial base and the increase in the average life expectancy.
For us, however, the issue of our insurance system is much broader and threatens not only the cohesion of Greek society but also the very national and cultural identity of our country, for the reasons mentioned in paragraph 6.1.4.3 above.
This is why we believe that the need for the restructuring and modernization of our insurance system is not only immediate and urgent but also a matter of particular national importance for Greece.
We believe that Greek society needs an insurance system that is guaranteed by the state, that has a strong financial base and that makes use of its assets and reserves.
Whose benefits will actually correspond to the amount of the social security contributions.
Which will be adapted to the modern standards of succession insurance.
Which will ensure that more working days mean more pension.
That will really protect workers in heavy and unhealthy occupations.
Which will give all Greeks a sense of social justice and the certainty that they will get their pension.
We believe that in order for Greek society to be able to enjoy such an insurance system, half-measures of changes and restructuring of the current system are not enough.
A new pension system should be designed from scratch, based on today's needs and aiming to ensure sustainable pension rights.
In this context, we propose the following: a) All existing insurance funds are divided into three independent sectors, the Provident and Minimum National Pension Sector, the Health Sector and, if they grant high pensions, the Increased Pension Sector, based on the amount of their benefits, the number of insured and pensioners, their assets and the ratios of the funds' assets to the number of insured and pensioners. (
b) The Provident Benefits and National Minimum Pension sectors of all funds shall be progressively consolidated into the Single Social Benefits Institution, as referred to in paragraph 7.1.1.
(c) The Health sectors of all funds shall be progressively consolidated into the Single Health Institution, as referred to in paragraph 7.2.1.
d) The Increased Pension Sectors, in those funds that have been separated, shall be gradually consolidated into a Single Increased Pension Fund, which shall operate as a state-owned insurance company on strictly private-economic criteria.
e) The assets of all insurance funds shall be consolidated and placed under the management of a Single Insured Property Fund, which soon after its establishment shall begin to operate as an autonomous bank with the Single Social Benefits Institution and the Single Increased Pension Fund as its shareholders.
f) All employee insurance contributions shall be abolished.
g) Employer insurance contributions shall be abolished and replaced by a percentage Insurance Tax on the turnover of each employer, based on the principle of value added by human labour, calculated as mentioned in paragraph 7.3.d).
h) Self-employed persons and other self-insured persons shall also be subject to the system of the percentage Insurance Premium.
(i) The Single Social Benefits Institution shall be financed from the revenue from the Insurance Fee and from the profits from the activities of the Single Fund for the Assets of Insured Persons.
If the budget is in deficit, the difference is subsidised from the state budget.
If it is in surplus, the difference is invested in the Single Fund for the Assets of Insured Persons.
ι) Employees, self-employed persons and self-insured persons who wish to do so may have a higher pension if they join the Single Institution for Increased Pensions and pay an annual sum of money, the amount of which will vary according to the amount of the additional pension they wish to receive.
We believe that this proposal has multiple benefits for the social security system as it leads to an indirect increase of up to 20% in workers' salaries.,
simplifies the whole insurance process and removes the excessive insurance burden on labour costs for employers,
minimises the cost of the bureaucracy of the Insurance System,
removes the comparative advantage of "black labour"
and, most importantly, ensures the sustainability of our Insurance System as it decouples it from the ratio of employees to pensioners and correlates it with the overall economic activity of the country, thus creating the conditions for the creation of a positive cycle for the co-insurance sector.
7.4.1. On Pension Policy
We believe that the proposed restructuring of the social security system ensures that the pensions to be granted by the envisaged Single Social Benefits Institution will provide a decent standard of living for all Greek citizens.
It will be implemented in a way that does not affect any vested pension rights and with a transitional period during which workers will have the right to choose whether to join the new or remain in the old pension system.
The burden on pensioners, who have already paid health insurance contributions for their health funds, from the cost of running the Single Health Insurance Fund will be offset by the free provision of health services to them.
The National Minimum Pension we propose will be determined and granted at the individual level, with the provision that it will cover all the needs of a couple of pensioners cumulatively, and there will be a provision that in the event of the death of one of them, the survivor's pension will be increased by 30% of the deceased's pension in order to mitigate the effects of the sudden loss of family income.
With regard to the retirement age, we believe that the system we propose not only allows for maintaining it at current levels but also offers the possibility of a limited improvement.
In this direction, we believe that the first improvements can be made in relation to the incentives for having children and we propose a) that every couple be rewarded with a 2 year pensionable time for each child born in addition to the first two,
and b) the immediate retirement of every mother who has five children.
(Ministry of Education, which will include Deputy Ministries in the fields of Education, Culture, Sports and Religious Affairs)
F.8. The LA.O.S.'s Positions on Education, Education, Culture, Culture, Sport and Religions
8. On Education
We believe that Education is a fundamental asset of every society and an issue of essential importance for the quality of life of the people who make up the society and for the survival of society itself.
We believe that education is a much broader concept than just education
and we believe that it is important for Greek society to recall the difference between the two.
Education is spiritual culture, it is a mindset, it is a way of thinking, it is an attitude to life.
Education determines how we see and feel about ourselves, those around us and the world, our country and the environment, how we interpret all our experiences, thoughts and feelings.
We believe that education defines our identity, both personally and culturally and, ultimately, nationally.
We should not forget that according to Isocrates, "Greeks are those who participate in the greatest education".
And we believe that this determining role of education is particularly important today, both because of the number of economic migrants who have entered Greece legally or illegally
and because of the risk of cultural alienation from globalization.
We believe that our education, Greek education, must be supported and preserved in order to ensure our survival in the long run
and we believe that the education system can be used in this direction.
In this context, we propose the addition to the compulsory education curriculum of the course "Greek Culture and Tradition", the content of which will be determined by the Academy of Athens on the basis of the principles of intercultural education
and with the aim, on the one hand, to acquaint our children with Greek Education and come into better contact with it, and
on the other hand, to help the children of economic migrants and groups with cultural particularities to "learn about Greek education" and to integrate smoothly into Greek society.
We also believe that our education can be the means of our cultural expansion, through the contact of people from other countries with our culture and our culture and their influence on them.
In this context, we believe that we should promote our education abroad with priority given to countries where there has historically been a Greek presence, the countries of the European Union, the USA and Canada, Australia, India, Japan and China.
We also believe that the promotion of our education is easier to do either by establishing independent branches of the Greek Studies departments of our Public Universities in all countries where possible, or by organizing Greek Studies programs by our Public Universities in cooperation with higher educational institutions abroad.
8.1. For Education
We believe that Education must move away from the mentality of simple transfer of knowledge and skills,
from sterile rote learning for entrance exams to higher educational institutions,
from "making students" ready to accept whatever the government and their teachers "serve" them,
from "making citizens" obedient and ready to accept whatever the parties and their political leaders "serve" them.
We believe that Education must rediscover its pedagogical, educational and social role.
Aim to prepare tomorrow's Greek citizens, to cultivate their creativity and to equip them with critical thinking.
To instill in them the values and ideals of the Greek spirit, humanism, social cohesion and solidarity, democracy and environmental awareness.
We believe that Education is an investment for every society, an investment in its future and in the people who make up and will make it up,
and we believe that the Greek Government should invest substantially in Education.
In this context, we believe that it should be established that the funds for Education should be fixed at 5% of each State Budget, which is a constant demand of the entire educational world.
We believe that the level of education that every society wants to provide for its children is reflected in society's attitude towards those who are entrusted with the task of providing it, teachers at all levels.
Teachers who are frustrated and dissatisfied with the attitude of the government and society towards them, who are indifferent to their profession and see it simply as a means of making a living, are bound to create tomorrow's citizens with similar characteristics.
In this context, we believe that in order to improve the education we offer to our children, the importance of the function that each teacher is called upon to perform must be recognised again, at all levels.
Furthermore, we consider as a prerequisite for improving the quality of the educational work offered the immediate coverage of all fixed needs at all levels of Education with permanent teachers, with the appropriate legislative regulations for the cases that are required.
8.1.1. For the History in Education course
We believe that the history lesson has a central role in every Educational System, as it brings students in contact with the collective memory of their country's course.
We believe that History, like any human memory, has three components: the historical event, its associations and its interpretation.
We recognize that there can be many perspectives on the associations and interpretation of a historical event, depending on the personal positions of the person approaching it and the purposes he or she wants to serve.
But we believe that this historical fact itself cannot be the subject of negotiation, transaction or concealment for any reason.
Much more so, it is the subject of misinformation.
We believe that teaching a generation of students the "history" that the democratically elected Government wishes to promote is within the limits of the Government's constitutional rights and acceptable, provided that two conditions are met.
The first condition is that the party in government should have informed the people before the elections about its aims in dealing with the history of its country.
The second is that in no case will the presentation of the historical event itself, of historical truth, be compromised.
In the case of the sixth grade history book, we believe that the Government of the New Democracy had neither informed the Greek people about the intentions of falsifying our history,
nor did it ensure that the author of the book presented the real historical facts, apart from her respected personal views on their correlations and interpretations.
We believe that the place of History in the educational system of each country is particularly important
and we believe that in its presentation in primary, secondary and high school textbooks there must be the truth about the historical event, a broad political and social consensus about its correlations and a timelessness about its interpretations.
In this context, we believe that the overall educational program of History taught in our schools should be reviewed, be the product of a dialogue between experts and society, and be
entrusted to a widely accepted body, we propose that the Academy of Athens, the responsibility to summarize the results of the dialogue and oversee the revision of history textbooks for all grades of primary, secondary and high school.
8.1.2. For Basic Education
We believe that in today's era, when new knowledge is accumulating rapidly and most of it is being overcome just as quickly, the role of basic education is to provide the student with knowledge whose truth does not change over time, on the one hand, and to
equip him with a mindset and a way of thinking that will allow him to manage new information and organize it in a way that is functional for him and his environment, on the other hand.
In this context, we believe that it is necessary to undertake a comprehensive revision of the curriculum of primary, secondary school and high school, based on what is in force in other countries of the European Union and after a dialogue between experts and society, and with the aim of creating critical thinking in students.
We believe that basic education should be 12 years long, compulsory and free, in all-day morning schools with a maximum of 25 pupils per class.
Also that there should be special provision for students who either absorb the curriculum more quickly than others, have learning or other problems, or have special needs.
We believe that the nature and conduct of the Panhellenic Examinations should be changed, with their application in the Lyceum classes and with a national comparative score that will lead to a National Baccalaureate, which will be the basis for admission to Higher Education.
We believe that tutorial education is an essential part of basic education and we believe that it should be provided by the state in a similar way.
We believe that the timely provision of educational material to students, the general maintenance of school facilities during the summer holidays and their effective security to avoid vandalism must be ensured every year.
We believe that there should be the opportunity, but also the encouragement in the form of incentives, for all residents of Greece and the European Union who wish to do so to complete the cycle of Greek basic education at any age.
8.1.3. For Higher Education
We believe that higher education in our country has been constantly deteriorating in recent years and that its situation is now marginal and dramatic, which is clearly reflected in the positions of our educational institutions in the global ranking of university institutions.
We believe that this continuing deterioration of our country's public higher education is a combination of five factors: (a) the chronic under-funding of higher education; (
b) the conscious choices of the governments of New Democracy and PASOK; (
c) the use of the student movement by the Left parties to promote their party priorities; (
d) the selection of its teaching staff based not on meritocratic but on party or other criteria; (
e) the resistance of its teaching establishment to adapt to the new international university standards and norms.
We believe that the need to change this situation is immediate and urgent.
We believe that our public higher education needs a generous increase in funding and the design of a stable funding plan based on the number of students in each institution, in line with the average expenditure per student in the five best universities in the European Union.
We believe that our Public Higher Education Institutions need: to improve their infrastructure and facilities, in line with international standards for each field of study.
upgrading their curricula, based on those in other EU countries
the creation of university libraries linked to each other, to the National Library and to international databases and journals, which will be continuously available to students via the internet,
rectors and administrations with bravery, who will not hesitate to take decisions on the loss of semesters by all students, in cases where curricula have not been followed due to occupations or other reasons.
changing the current system of electing their teaching staff and entrusting this responsibility to the ASEP.
full coverage of their fixed needs in educational staff with permanent teachers, with the establishment of temporary positions in cases where required, as in the TEIs, in order to meet their educational needs immediately
effective evaluation of the University and Technological Institutions and their staff, by field of study, in order to address the problems and to certify the quality of the educational services provided.
their continuous evaluation, in order to certify the quality of educational services provided by them,
control of their finances and social accountability for the way they use their self-government
implementation of a comparative grading system, for the upgrading of studies based on academic criteria and with provision for the possibility of changing the field or department by students who have made the wrong choice and cannot progress in a particular field.
8.1.4. For University Asylum
We believe that the purpose of university asylum is to protect the free movement of ideas, we recognise it as an institution of particular importance to our society and we believe that it must be effectively protected from all those who threaten it, either by its violation or abuse.
We believe that the problems related to the University Asylum can be solved immediately and effectively by the establishment of a special University Premises Security Corps under the exclusive control of the Rectorial Authorities of each University.
We also believe that the provisions foreseen by the Law on University Asylum should be activated, which allow the possibility of police intervention following a request by the University authorities and a prosecutor's order in cases of crimes against physical integrity or life and generally acts of a particularly criminal nature, whenever the student or University bodies cannot adequately deal with or are demonstrably unable to protect University Asylum from the actions of students and students' representatives.
8.1.5. For Student Affairs
We believe that the right to public higher education should be accessible to all and that there should be special state provision for children from families who cannot afford to support their education.
We believe that a modern student welfare framework should be established, providing financial support to those students who need it,
promoting the establishment of new and upgrading of existing campuses and student clubs,
providing the right to free food to all students, inparticular to those studying in cities far from their parents' place of residence,
as well as a free travel card for urban transport in the city where they study, and a reduced or free ticket, depending on the means of transport, for travel between the cities where they study and the cities where they permanently reside.
8.1.6. For non-state higher education institutions
We believe that the recognition of the reality of the freedom of Greeks to study in any country of the European Union or of the world they wish and the number of our children who make use of this possibility, show that the provision of article 16 of our Constitution on "the prohibition of the establishment of non-state institutions of higher education" in Greece is now outdated and untenable.
In this context, we agree in principle with the proposal to revise this article of the Constitution by the next Parliament.
We believe that the most essential part of the whole process for the institutionalisation of non-state higher education institutions is not the debate on the rewording of Article 16 of the Constitution but the adoption of the law that will define τατης their establishment and operation.
In this law we propose that for a non-state higher education institution to be granted a licence to establish and operate, it must meet a number of criteria: a) financial, which will provide guarantees to its students for the completion of the studies they will start in it,
(b) operational, in terms of infrastructure, staff and quality certification of the training services it will provide,
c) educational, in terms of the harmonisation of its programmes with those in force in similar public educational institutions in Greece or the European Union,
d) socially, by agreeing to allocate at least 15% of their student places to scholarship holders admitted by the general entrance examinations for higher education,
e) ethically, to avoid covering its needs for teaching staff by under-employing the staff of similar public educational institutions.
8.1.7. On the developmental role of Public Higher Education Institutions.
We believe that there is significant scope for the creation of new public higher education institutions, in cutting-edge departments or areas of increased demand, the lack of which in Greece leads our young people to study in similar institutions abroad.
We believe that the creation of a University or Technological Institution in each Prefectural Capital is an essential measure for the development, revitalization and improvement of the economic life of the Greek region
and we believe that it can offer substantial solutions in cases of cities that have been severely affected by unemployment due to the closure or relocation of industrial units.
We believe that the state should ensure that the needs of Greek society for public higher education services are actually met
and that it should establish as many schools or departments as needed, while at the same time providing many scholarships for foreign students to study in our country, with the aim of upgrading our universities internationally and spreading Greek education and the Greek language.
8.1.8. On the role of Public Higher Education Institutions in "Continuing Lifelong Education"
We believe that public higher education institutions can and should contribute to the current reality of the need for "Continuing Lifelong Education", by undertaking and creating programmes that are free and available to all, with priority to those most exposed to unemployment and social exclusion.
We believe that the demand for study at the Open University is yet another form of manifestation of the needs of Greek society for "Continuing Lifelong Education"
and we believe that the state should demand that all these needs be met by public higher education institutions or, alternatively, that it should ensure the establishment of Open Universities in other cities in Greece.
8.1.9. For Scientific Research
We believe that research for the advancement of scientific knowledge is an integral part of the whole educational process
and we believe that the underdevelopment of this area in all public higher education institutions is part of their systematic degradation and a direct consequence of their under-funding and shortages of scientific staff.
And of course, we believe for the same reasons, there is a similar degradation of non-university public research centres.
We believe that the funding and development of scientific research in Greece is an issue of vital importance for the whole development effort of our country.
We also believe that it is essential, to the extent that we wish and seek to upgrade public higher education, to take all the necessary measures and provide the appropriate incentives so that university and technological education, undergraduate and postgraduate, are reconnected with scientific research, both in the direction of the sciences and in the direction of theoretical studies.
8.2. On Culture and Tradition
We believe that our Culture, Tradition and Language are national and social assets, as well as an asset for the survival of Greece in difficult times, both past, present and future.
We believe that our Culture, Tradition and Language are living organisms, not museum exhibits, a source of inspiration, learning and creation, and we can recognise their influence and importance in every aspect of the lives of today's Greeks.
We believe that our country's policy on Culture, Tradition and Language is a matter of special national importance,
that it must be exercised with the greatest possible agreement of the party factions on a commonly accepted framework for the cultivation and promotion of our cultural tradition, the promotion of intellectual and artistic creation in our country, the reduction of inequalities in cultural access in our society, the upgrading of artistic education at home and the exploitation of opportunities for the promotion of Greek Studies abroad,
in a framework for the creation of all the structures that will allow and lead to the greater participation of all the inhabitants of Greece in Greek Culture, Greek Tradition and the Greek Language.
We believe that the current government authority for culture, the Ministry of Culture, must be reorganized and equipped with all the necessary means to promote a bipartisan policy agreed upon above,
which will aim to restore our country to its rightful place among the cultural and intellectual pioneers of countries around the world.
8.3. For Sport
We believe that Sport is part of the wider system of Education for young people and we approach it in the form of the sporting ideal, as it is celebrated in the Olympic Anthem.
We believe that the real power of sport is shown by its power to inspire and move the wider society, as in the case of a εθνικήςαθλητικής success, and we believe that it is unacceptable to use this power to promote club, party or nationalist agendas.
We believe that sport is a social good and that the right of access to it for all citizens should be actively supported, protected and safeguarded,
especially those who are most at risk of exclusion from it, such as the middle-aged, the chronically ill and the disabled.
We believe that the current reality of professional sport cannot be disregarded and condemned, but must be placed in a context of general development of sport, as a means of promoting the creation of sports facilities and mass amateur sport programmes.
8.4. On religion and religions
On the subject of religion and religions, we have already referred to paragraph 1.12. of the text which refers to our positions "on religion and the Orthodox Church".
(Ministry of Communications and Transport, which will include a State Secretary for Maritime Affairs)
F.9. The PLO's Positions on Communications, Transport and Shipping
9.1. For Communications
We believe that the existence of a system of free, uninterrupted, secure and quality communications is a basic human right, a primary state responsibility and a necessary condition for the development of our society and economy.
9.1.1 For fixed telephony and OTE
We believe that fixed telephony is still the backbone of communications and that its control should be subject to central coordination and control in order to safeguard our vital interests.
We believe that OTE must remain under public control, maintain its social and national role in the new conditions of the free communications market, and at the same time adapt to these conditions.
We also consider necessary the consolidation of its finances and its de-partisanship,
the establishment of meritocratic and specific criteria for the recruitment of its staff,
the expansion and improvement of its services, as well as
its development through strategic alliances for its expansion in our neighbouring countries.
9.1.2 For electronic communication and the Internet
We believe that access to electronic communication services is a right of every citizen which the state must provide everywhere and at all times.
We also believe that modern electronic communication technologies can provide the basis for a new model of development and a tool to promote citizen participation in the public life of our country.
We believe that it is necessary to take measures for the education of Greeks in electronic communications and the wider dissemination of the internet, by institutionalizing the obligation of all fixed telephony companies to provide their users with the possibility of a simple internet connection at no extra cost.
We also believe that the creation of advanced electronic network infrastructure throughout the country should be supported and the creation of broadband networks should be promoted to provide integrated fixed telephony, high-speed internet and TV services at low cost and with a single connection.
9.1.3 For mobile telephony
We believe that the development and spread of mobile telephony should be controlled, as there is already enough scientific evidence of dangerous effects of mobile phones on the health of their users.
We believe that there should be a review of the current legislation on mobile telephony, the
adoption of stricter criteria for radiation emissions from antennas and devices,
public information on the risks of frequent use of mobile phones
and a ban on their use by children under the age of ten, as well as
warning labelling, in cooperation with the Ministry of Health, of all mobile phone products, without exception, on the potential risks of frequent use.
9.1.4 For postal communication and the Post Office
We believe that the confidentiality of correspondence is an inalienable element of the democratic constitution which must be guaranteed by the state,
and for this reason we consider it essential that the existence and maintenance of the social role of the ELTA and the express-transport services in every neighbourhood, in every village and on every island of Greece.
We believe that the ELTA and the Postal Savings Bank should remain under public control, maintain their social and national role in the new conditions of the free market of postal services and at the same time adapt to these conditions.
We also consider it necessary to consolidate their finances and decentralize them, to expand and improve their services, as well as to develop more in the field of courier services and expand it to our neighboring countries.
9.2. For Communications and Transport
We believe that the existence of a system of free, uninterrupted, safe and quality public transport is a basic human right, a primary state responsibility and a necessary condition for the development of our society and economy.
We believe that Greece, because of its geographical position, can and should, with the creation of all the necessary infrastructure, become the transit centre of the wider region.
We believe that due to the national importance of transport and public transport, all relevant infrastructure should be owned and managed by the state, regardless of the form of financing its construction.
9.2.1. For Road Transport and Transport
We believe that the adequacy and safety of the road network are necessary conditions for the satisfactory and orderly conduct of road traffic and transport.
We believe that there must be an immediate upgrade and expansion of the existing road network, with priority to the reconstruction of those points that have been classified as dangerous, in the peripheral areas and in those that lack easy access.
We also believe that in the context of the immediate increase in the capacity of our road network, a number of measures should be taken to promote the shift of commercial freight from road transport to other modes of transport that are less costly and more environmentally friendly.
9.2.2. For Road Safety
We believe that road safety is a matter of national importance, given the facts of the existence of the demographic problem and the loss of human lives every year, which, in number, is proportional to the population of a small Greek city.
We also believe that increasing road safety must become a key national priority, with the aim of drastically reducing deaths and injuries from road accidents.
We believe that a series of measures must be taken to increase the safety of road travel, with priority being given to the immediate reconstruction of the parts of our road network that have been characterized as "carmanioles" and the restoration of deficiencies and errors in road signage.
9.2.3. For Urban Transport and Transport Services
We believe that the traffic problems faced by all major cities in our country are a consequence of three basic parameters: the development of cities in an anarchic way and without any provision for the development of their infrastructure, the concentration of services and shops in their centres, the lack of convenient public transport.
We believe that measures should be taken to promote the development of car load management infrastructure in each city, with priority given to the development of real-time traffic control systems and the creation of new off-street parking spaces.
We believe that measures should be taken for the decentralisation and transfer of services and shops after a traffic impact study for each planned transfer, with priority given to large public services.
We believe that there must be an upgrade of the existing public transport networks, with priority to the functional redesign and control of the bus and tram lines, the immediate operation of all planned stations and the completion of the extensions of the Metro and the Suburban Railway.
We also believe that incentives should be given to encourage the use of public transport by citizens, such as the reintroduction of free transport for certain hours of the day or for pensioners.
9.2.4. For Air Services and Transport
We believe that air transport is an essential factor in the development of all economic activities and that this transport sector cannot yet meet the real needs of our country.
We believe that the Greek Aviation Legislation should be immediately revised and modernized in the direction of harmonizing it with the corresponding European legislation, the regulation for the Single European Sky and the strengthening of aviation and air sports activities.
We believe that the Civil Aviation Authority, the body responsible for the operation and development of civil aviation in our country, should be placed under the Ministry of Transport, decentralized and strict meritocratic criteria should be established for its staffing.
We believe that measures should be taken to modernise our country's airports and attract foreign companies to them, as well as
to promote healthy competition in domestic air transport
by introducing the obligation for all air carriers to operate routes to our country's arid routes.
9.2.5. For "Olympic Airways"
We believe that Olympic Airways must remain under public control, maintain its social and national role in the new conditions of the free market of air transport and at the same time adapt to these conditions.
We also believe that in order for Olympic Airways to regain its leading role in the international aviation scene, it must be restructured, de-co-partitioned, rationalised in terms of the number of personnel and its fleet,
freed from the shackles of "Eleftherios Venizelos" and turned towards its operation as a central provider of repair and technical support in the wider Mediterranean and Balkan region.
9.2.6. For Rail Transport and Transport
We believe that rail transport is a sector that has never been exploited to a degree comparable to other European countries and this is something that we believe should be changed
and we believe that rail transport should be upgraded, made reliable
and a series of measures should be taken to shift towards it a significant part of road transport and the main volume of freight transport activity in the country.
We believe that our national railway network should be developed to cover the whole country, in the direction of the PATHE, Egnatia and Ionian Road, with priority to the creation of a double line in its entirety and the gradual completion of electrification programmes.
We believe that lines should be built to connect all the country's main ports, major industrial areas and freight centres to the national rail network and special rail ferries should be launched to connect with Europe and the Middle East.
9.2.7. For Shipping and Transport
We believe that coastal transport is a vital need for Greece and an essential factor for the preservation and development of all social and economic activities of our islands.
We believe that our coastal transport and shipping network should be redesigned from the beginning and on a new basis, aiming at the daily connection of all the islands, the reduction of fares and the reduction of the time of the routes.
In this direction, we believe that basic trunk lines, ports - transfer stations and local ferry lines should be created, that
to separate the profitable and trunk lines from the barren and local lines, to group them appropriately, to set specifications to meet the needs of each group and to put out to tender the right to operate routes per group through international tenders.
9.3. For Shipping
We believe that we are a nation with a great maritime tradition that should be preserved and further enhanced.
We believe that incentives should be given for the integration of all Greek-owned ships under the Greek Flag
and we should fight in the European Union for the possibility of state funding of 50% of the value of each ship built in Greek shipyards, provided that they are always under the Greek flag and manned exclusively by Greek crew.
9.3.1. For the maritime profession
We believe that due to a series of chronic problems the maritime profession has ceased to be a pole of professional attraction, creating risks to the basis of our maritime tradition.
We believe that a programme should be developed and implemented to attract young people to the maritime profession, to upgrade maritime education and to take measures to tackle unemployment among Greek seafarers.
9.3.2. For Merchant Shipping
We believe that the fact that Greek-owned shipping consistently holds one of the top positions in the world while the Greek Flag of Shipping does not hold a similar position, is proof that all the post-doctoral governments of PASOK and New Democracy have been indifferent to the national dimension of our shipping and through a series of wrong interventions have driven Greek shipowners to foreign flags of convenience.
We believe that a series of measures should be taken to promote the quality, competitiveness and promotion of the Greek Shipping Flag, aiming to bring Greece to the forefront of world shipping.
9.3.3. For the safety of navigation
We believe that better use should be made of modern technological capabilities and an automated system of real-time monitoring and control of navigation should be created that will cover the entire Greek maritime space and will aim at the safe navigation of ships and the fight against smuggling and modern slave trade.
9.3.4. For our ports
We believe that the port management organisations (PPA, PPA, PPA, etc.) should remain under public control and maintain their national and social role.
Also, to modernise with a series of productive projects aimed at developing value-added industries and services in the port's land area and improving its international position.
9.3.5. For the shipbuilding industry
We believe that our country's shipbuilding and ship repair sector is of strategic importance and a series of measures should be taken to strengthen the related businesses and restore it to the position it had until a few years ago.
We believe that most of the problems of our shipbuilding industry are related to the application of the European Regulation (EC) 1540/98 "on new rules to strengthen the shipbuilding industry" which should be denounced by our country, as it creates conditions of unfair competition against the shipbuilding sector of all the countries of the European Union.
(Ministry of Environmental Protection, which will include Deputy Ministries in the fields of Environment, Planning and Energy)
F.10. LA.O.S.'s Positions on the Environment, Spatial Planning and Energy
10. Environment, Spatial Planning and Energy
We believe that the Environment is an essential factor for both the preservation and the quality of human life and therefore we believe that we must treat it as a basic social good that must be preserved and protected.
We also believe that Greek nature is one of the most favoured in terms of beauty and diversity of flora and fauna, and this, for us, means both additional responsibilities for a rational and respectful management and that we have an important developmental advantage.
We believe that spatial planning is a focal point where environmental protection meets, and often clashes, with individual and collective interests, with the acquisition of property and the improvement of quality of life, with residential development and the creation of industrial zones.
For this reason, we consider Spatial Planning as an issue that should be above all kinds of party interests, as an issue that needs a responsible and clearly defined state policy on the one hand, and a broader social consensus on the other.
We believe that the production, transport, availability and use of Energy are the fundamental factors in creating the conditions of our daily life as we all know it today.
At the same time, however, we believe that they are also factors whose indiscriminate approach creates threats to both the environment and the earth's climate, as well as to the quality and preservation of human life.
For this reason, we consider issues related to Energy and Energy Policy as issues that must be approached with a human and environmental perspective.
10.1. On Environmental Problems
We believe that humanity has already begun to realize the true magnitude of the importance of environmental problems and that they can only be addressed by concerted action at a broader global level, always adapted to the local context of each country.
10.1.1. Lack of environmental awareness among Greeks
We believe that Greece's biggest environmental problem is that there is no developed environmental consciousness in Greek society
and we believe that this is the result of deliberate interventions of environmental obscurantism promoted by all the post-doctoral governments of our country.
We believe that the development of environmental consciousness in the Greek citizen is a necessary condition for the effective treatment of all other environmental problems
and, as a first step towards this direction, we consider the creation of an "Environmental Consciousness Development Organization" that will be activated in the direction of informing and influencing public opinion in our country in order to change the attitude of detachment and apathy that Greek society seems to have even for the most important environmental issues.
10.1.2 Lack of a clear regulatory framework for environmental issues
We believe that all the post-dictatorial governments of New Democracy and PASOK have dealt with environmental issues without responsibility, in a way that seems as if they used them as a tool to create bureaucratic needs for the Greek citizen, to promote the interests of their financiers and to impose the "fast track" on the relevant public services.
We believe that all the post-dictatorial governments of New Democracy and PASOK created a chaotic regulatory framework for environmental issues, with laws contradicting or even negated by subsequent graceful amendments, with Ministerial Decisions that regulate environmental issues according to the interests of the financier of the Minister in question, with regulatory circulars that allow the organs of the Public Administration to interpret them as they see fit, either as permitting or prohibiting, for the same problem of a citizen.
We believe that this situation must change.
Our country's environmental policy needs to be redesigned from scratch, on the basis of a cross-party consensus on its strategic objectives.
The broader regulatory framework for environmental issues needs to be reviewed, modernised, made specific and clear.
Incorporate the European Union Directives and comply with them in a way that will stop Greece being referred to the European Court of Justice on environmental issues.
Minimise overlapping responsibilities between the public services involved.
We believe that our country's environmental policy should become truly national and modern, in a way that clarifies and popularises environmental terms, in a way that facilitates citizen access to its resources.
10.1.3. The "Greenhouse Effect" and its related upcoming climate changes
We believe that "global warming" is a major challenge for the whole of humanity that can only be addressed by mobilizing all the countries of the world and involving them in tackling it.
For this reason we believe that efforts to address it must be made within the UN framework, with international condemnation and economic measures against any country that refuses to take part in them.
And we consider as self-evident the obligation of every Greek Government to faithfully implement all the measures provided for by the Kyoto Protocol and the other international conventions to address the "greenhouse effect" that are currently in force.
It is known that Greece will be among the countries most affected by the consequences of the "greenhouse effect" as the coming climate changes will create both major problems and great opportunities.
We know that we will have problems, such as soil desertification, water scarcity, the destruction and the need to restructure crops, the destruction and the need to create new infrastructure in our coastal cities and on our islands.
We know that there will be new opportunities, such as the lengthening of the tourist season.
We believe that it is up to us to be ready to face the problems and to take advantage of the opportunities.
We believe that it will be disastrous for our country both to be mere spectators and simply wait for the consequences of the increase in the average temperature of our country and to take only simple fire-fighting measures.
We believe that what is needed is a medium- to long-term planning for the adaptation of our country to the new conditions that are certainly expected.
In this context, we consider necessary the creation of a "Scientific Council for the Consequences of the Greenhouse Effects" that will study all available data on the upcoming climatic changes in Greece and will recommend the adoption of measures to deal with them.
10.1.4. Environmental pollution
We believe that environmental pollution in Greece, atmospheric, soil and water pollution, is a major problem and tends to become uncontrollable due to the lack of infrastructure, control framework and environmental awareness among citizens.
We believe that a series of appropriate measures should be taken to tackle environmental pollution, with priority being given to the reduction of polluting activities at the levels of industry, agricultural crops, waste and urban waste water management and the use of private cars, rather than public transport, in the major cities of our country.
10.1.5. Waste management
We believe that waste management is a multi-faceted issue of particular environmental importance
and we believe that it can best be addressed at a more centralised level, by transferring the relevant competence from the Municipalities and Communities to the Prefectural Regions.
We also believe that the current state policy on waste management should be changed towards the abolition of landfills and their replacement by large waste treatment, recycling and energy recovery plants that will cover the needs of one or more neighbouring regions, in proportion to their population and size.
10.2. For forests
We believe that our few remaining forests are a national treasure that should first be delineated on the basis of actual current data and then protected by strict measures.
For this reason, we believe that the General Directorate of Forests should be transferred to the Ministry of Environment and its technocratic role should be strengthened with the aim of the general environmental upgrading of our country.
We believe that only those areas of parks should be characterized as forest areas, in which any human intervention should be limited only to maintenance, protection or restoration of the park and should be allowed only after specific permission from the competent Forestry Service.
We also believe that the areas currently classified as forested without being parks should be declassified and handed over for specific agricultural, urban or suburban use, in combination with the mandatory regeneration and tree planting of the surrounding area in a way that protects it from soil erosion and desertification.
10.3. For protected areas of outstanding natural beauty
We believe that these areas of our country should be increased, further protected and highlighted as places to promote alternative development models.
We also believe that this category should include the mountains and the peripheral environment around large cities, to be cleaned, reforested and properly regenerated so as to restore, as far as possible, the natural landscape and create recreational areas in them.
10.4. For the aquatic environment
We believe that our country's sea, lakes and rivers are national assets that should be defined and protected.
For our seas, we believe that the designation of marine protected areas should be completed and the implementation of the European Marine Strategy should be promoted.
For the aquatic environment in general, we believe that the pollution and contamination from urban wastewater, industrial waste and agricultural runoff should be reduced within a broader, more environmentally friendly management framework.
10.5. On spatial planning
We believe that Greece needs a new spatial and urban planning that takes into account the current reality of land use, the development program of our country and the protection of our natural and cultural heritage.
In this context: We believe that it is necessary to complete, as soon as possible, the National Cadastre, the Forest Inventory and the registration of land use throughout the country,
along with the creation of an effective mechanism for the prevention and control of changes in land use, illegal land subdivision and arbitrary building.
We believe that it is necessary to record the trends and needs of residential expansion and, based on these, to elaborate medium-term models for the organized development of existing urban areas in our country, within the framework of a strictly defined Urban Planning Regulation
and in a way that will prevent anarchic urban expansion and will ensure the existence of the necessary infrastructure and a high percentage of green and open spaces.
We believe that it is necessary to establish zones for the development of productive activities in the primary, secondary and tertiary sectors on the outskirts of each large city,
with specific and necessary infrastructure for each sector that will protect the environment and support the life of the cities to which they belong.
We believe that it is necessary to create holiday and tourist development zones, with specific urban characteristics depending on their geographical location (island, coastal, lowland, mountain, lake),
and strict environmental restrictions that will ensure the quality of living and the high level of tourist services provided.
We believe that it is necessary to establish a specific urban planning framework for all areas of our country that have special characteristics in terms of their natural environment,
their historical construction, their cultural heritage or their historical role in the course of our nation.
10.6. For the Planning Authority
We believe that the problems faced by Greek citizens in the Urban Planning Departments exist due to the absence of a strict regulatory framework for building issues, the lack of computerization in the urban planning departments, the ambiguity of building regulations and the plethora of regulatory circulars that allow the urban planning bodies to interpret them as they see fit.
We also believe that these problems were deliberately created and maintained by the governments of New Democracy and PASOK, in order to create bureaucratic needs for the Greek citizen, to promote the interests of their sponsors and to facilitate the bribery of a few party-protected employees.
We believe that this situation must change.
That the planning services should be limited to the strict control of the application of the planning regulations
and that the procedures of case-by-case negotiations between their bodies and the citizen should be abolished.
We also believe that the urban planning conditions and land use of each place should be clearly and bindingly defined, in conjunction with the full computerization of urban planning services
and that every interested citizen should be able to be informed directly and clearly about the current building conditions for each building block of our urban fabric and the land use of each area of our country.
10.7. On Energy and Energy Planning
We believe that the control and availability of energy sources will be a dominant issue in the medium term, due to the "greenhouse effect" and the depletion of hydrocarbon reserves.
For this reason, we believe that our country needs a new energy planning that will be based on the use of renewable and domestic energy sources, that will be more environmentally friendly
and that will aim at our energy independence and the upgrading of our country into an energy hub of our wider region.
10.7.1. For Renewable Energy Sources
We believe that because Greece is a country with high sunshine, strong winds and the capacity for significant agricultural production, it is also a country with a particularly high potential in the Renewable Energy Sources sectors.
In this context, we believe that it should become our national priority to maximise the development and exploitation of renewable energy sources and to exceed the quantitative targets agreed in the framework of the commitments to the European Union.
We believe that all appropriate measures should be taken to promote research and the development of domestic renewable energy technology that will best respond to and maximise their performance in our country's conditions.
We believe that all appropriate measures should be taken to promote the creation of domestic know-how and manufacturing industries for equipment used in renewable energy plants.
We believe that PPPs operating in the energy sectors should lead the way towards the widest possible use of renewable energy technologies, equipment and applications nationwide and in all sectors of our society that are operationally feasible.
10.7.2. For Domestic Energy Sources
We believe that Greece is a country with significant domestic energy resources that the governments of the New Democracy and PASOK either dare not exploit, such as the oil deposits of the Aegean, or under-utilize and discredit, such as the rich lignite deposits.
We believe that we must, at last, dare to exercise our sovereign rights and start real exploration to more fully identify and exploit the oil and gas deposits known to exist in our country.
We believe that there must, at last, be a modernisation of the lignite plants to make them more productive and more environmentally friendly.
10.7.3. For Natural Gas
We believe that Natural Gas is a more economical and environmentally friendly fuel and that its use should be actively promoted in our country and approach the European average.
We believe that incentives should be introduced for the expansion of networks and the establishment of new gas supply companies in most areas of our country, the use of natural gas in all vehicles of public services and municipalities, the use of natural gas by agricultural machinery and fishing boats, as well as the expansion of the use of natural gas as an alternative to oil as a means of heating in all major cities.
10.7.4. For electricity
We believe that PPC must remain under public control, maintain its social and national role in the new conditions of the free energy market, and at the same time adapt to these conditions.
We consider it necessary to consolidate its finances and de-partition, to
expand and improve its services, and to develop it through strategic alliances for its expansion in our neighbouring countries.
Ζ. The PLO's Positions on Government Stability, One-Party Governments and Co-operative Governments
We believe that it is high time to start respecting the Constitutional Mandate for the separation of Powers and to separate the election and stability of the Executive Power, the Government, from the election and composition of the Legislative Power, the Parliament.
We believe that the "principle of the "decree of majority" (parliamentary majority) that determines the political life of our country is obsolete and should be abolished, as it has been proven to lead to an informal abolition of the representativeness of our democracy.
The "principle of the "principle of the decree" in combination with the needs of the parties of bipolarity for one-party government majorities in the Parliament, lead to the passing of electoral laws that distort the real representativeness of the composition of the Parliament
and the sacrifice of the constitutionally provided equality of the vote of all Greek citizens on the altar of the "idol" of Government Stability.
We believe that it is high time to end the "theatre of the absurd" that we are all watching, the vote of "confidence" in the Government of a party by a Parliament where the majority of its MPs have been elected under the banner of the party in Government and who know full well that any refusal to comply with party discipline means their political suicide.
In order to solve the above dysfunctions of our political system, which have appeared as complications in the effort to elect Governments that, while being a minority among the Greek people, constitute a strong majority in the composition of the Parliament, which is supposedly representative of their will according to the Constitution,
we consider necessary and have already proposed the separation of the procedures for the election of the Government from those for the election of the Parliament and the Members of Parliament.
We propose the direct legitimisation of governments by direct election by the people without needing the "vote of confidence" of the Parliament to govern.
At the same time, because we recognize and respect the essential importance of the vote of the Greek people, we believe that under the current electoral system, Greek citizens have the inalienable right to freely entrust the governance of Greece with their vote, either to a one-party government or to a coalition government.
And we pledge that we will respect and honour any decision of the Greek citizens, whether we are called upon to serve them from the position of an Opposition party, or whether we are given the responsibility to serve them from the position of a partner party in a Co-operation Government.
Furthermore, because we want to fully respect a possible decision of the Greek people to be governed by a Co-operation Government,
we feel the need to clarify from the outset, both to the Greek citizens and to the other political parties, the conditions under which we will accept to participate in a Co-operation Government.
In this context, we are committed to the Greek people on the following ten points:
G.1. Our Ten Commitments to the Greek People, in case we participate in a Co-operation Government
We pledge that we will honour any decision of the Greek people to be governed by a Co-operation Government by accepting our participation in it, regardless of which party or parties the Greek people decide to govern them.
We pledge that our participation in a possible Co-operation Government is not for us an end in itself of personal fulfilment but a means of expressing our decision to place ourselves at the service of the interests of Greece, in the way and from the perspective that we, the President, the members and the voters of the Popular Orthodox Rally, understand.
And of course, without sacrificing our principles and dignity.
For these reasons and we declare explicitly before the Greek people that: a) we will not accept the proposal to participate in a Co-operation Government together with parties whose Presidents have expressed in an insulting way about the People's Orthodox Rally or its President Mr. George Karatzaferi,
b) we will not accept the proposal to participate in a Co-operation Government together with parties that in their political struggle against us have used, apart from the confrontation of political discourse, other underground methods that either aim to reduce our personality, our social position or our democratic conviction, or to extract our executives through mechanisms of pressure and acquisitions,
c) in the case where the above a) and b) were expressed as personal positions by one of the newly elected MPs of a party, we will not accept the proposal to participate in a Co-operation Government with the party with which they were elected only on condition of their prior removal from the parliamentary group of that party.
We pledge that we will honour the vote of the citizens who voted for us and we will accept to participate in a Co-operation Government, provided that this Government is formed on the basis of a convergence of positions between the parties that will make up the Government and respect for the basic principles of the Constitution and the People's Orthodox Rally.
We pledge that we will honour the vote of the citizens who voted for us and we will accept to participate in a Co-operation Government, provided that a written agreement is drawn up and announced to the Greek people and signed by the leaders of the parties participating in the Government.
This agreement will clearly define the points of convergence of the programmatic positions of the parties that will form the Co-operation Government, the objectives and directions of the new Government, as well as the timetable for their implementation.
We pledge to honour the vote of the citizens who voted for us and we will accept to participate in a Co-operation Government, provided that we agree to hold referendums on all major national and social issues,
such as the acceptance of a name for FYROM,
Turkey's entry into the European Union
or the necessary changes to our social security system.
We pledge that we will honour a possible decision of the Greek people to be governed by a Co-operation Government by accepting our participation in it, subject to the transfer of the proportion of our votes, in relation to the other party or parties that will also participate in it, to the number of Ministries and Deputy Ministries that the Cabinet of the new Government will have, as well as the remaining political positions in the wider public sector.
Among the Ministries, for reasons related to their independence, their particular importance and political pragmatism, we claim as a priority the Ministry of National Education & Religious Affairs
and the Ministry of Health & Social Solidarity.
We pledge that we will honour the vote of the citizens who voted for us and we will accept to participate in a Co-operation Government, provided that there is an explicit agreement to allocate 5% of the budget for the Ministry of National Education & Religious Affairs
and an increased by 3% (compared to the current one) percentage of the state budget for the Ministry of Health & Social Solidarity, as required by our government's programme for Education and Health (following in the next section).
We pledge that we will honour the vote of the citizens who voted for us and we will accept to participate in a Co-operation Government, provided that an agreement is reached to inform the Greek people more fully about Globalisation and to take measures to limit its effects on Greek society.
We pledge that we will honour the vote of the citizens who voted for us and we will accept to participate in a Co-operation Government, subject to the condition of the agreement to limit the right to be elected to four terms of office.
and to prohibit both the simultaneous election of two people related by first degree of kinship and their election in the same constituency in two consecutive elections.
We pledge that we will honour the vote of the citizens who voted for us and we will accept to participate in a Co-operation Government, provided that an agreement is reached to change the Law "On the Responsibility of Ministers" in order to bring it in line with the law applicable to all residents of Greece, in order to limit phenomena such as corruption, interference and family rule in the political, economic and social life of our country.
H.1. The Government Programme of the L.O.O.S. for Education
Immediate withdrawal of the sixth grade history textbook and its replacement with the previous textbook.
Assignment to the Academy of Athens the responsibility of supervising the revision of history textbooks for all grades of primary, secondary and high school.
Revision of the curriculum of primary, secondary school and high school based on the curricula of other European Union countries, under the supervision of the Academy of Athens and with the aim of creating critical thinking in students.
The addition to the compulsory education curriculum of the course "Greek Culture and Tradition", the content of which will be determined by the Academy of Athens on the basis of the principles of intercultural education
and with the aim that the children of economic migrants and groups with cultural particularities "receive a daily education" and integrate smoothly into Greek society.
Taking all necessary measures for the timely distribution of educational material to students and pupils.
Covering the permanent needs of all levels of our Education with permanent teachers, with appropriate legislation where necessary.
Establishment of a special University Premises Security Corps under the exclusive control of the Rectorial Authorities of each University.
Upgrading of Public University and Technological Institutions based on the standards of other EU countries
and their continuous evaluation for the certification of the quality of educational services provided by them.
Establishment of the regulatory framework for the operation of non-state institutions of higher education, following the completion of the revision of Article 16 of the Constitution, with educational programmes and standards similar to those of the corresponding public educational institutions
and with a special provision for the allocation of 15% of their student places to scholarship holders who will be admitted by the general entrance examinations for higher education.
Establish the appropriate framework, or incentives, to promote the establishment of branches of Greek Studies departments of Public Universities in all countries where possible or to promote the organization of joint programmes of Greek Studies in collaboration with foreign educational institutions.
Establish a modern framework of student care and financial support for those students who need it,
promote and upgrade the institutions of campuses and student clubs, provide all students with free food cards and free (or reduced fare, depending on the means) travel cards from the cities where they live to the cities where they study.
Creation of university libraries linked to each other, to the National Library and to international databases and journals, which will be continuously available to students, scientists and all Greeks via the internet.
Extend subsidised programmes of "Continuing Lifelong Learning" to be available to all, with priority given to those most exposed to unemployment and social exclusion.
H.2. The Government Programme of the L.O.O.S. for Health
Free medication for the chronically ill, the disabled, minors and elderly, the low pensioners, the unemployed and the needy...
Upgrading of the EKAB to a full telemedicine centre, with the possibility of providing telephone advice from an experienced Doctor or sending a doctor to the home, with 24-hour availability of ambulances and air ambulances, with the establishment of a special department of Immediate Assistance of the National Road Network and with the inclusion of Emergency Departments which will be fully developed.
Establishment of the separation and independence of the Health Sector in all Insurance Funds.
Establishment of a Unified Health Agency to which the health care sectors of all the Insurance Funds will be gradually subordinated, through the exclusive financing of which the state social policy in the health sector will be exercised.
Establishment of the Electronic Health Card, which will be issued upon affiliation to the Unified Health Agency and will gradually be given to all legal residents of Greece.
Adjustment of fees for the provision of health care services and the conclusion of National Collective Agreements of the Single Health Insurance Fund with all enterprises and professionals providing health care and health services.
Establishment of the family doctor.
Integration into the system of the Single Health Care Provider of the Complementary and Alternative Medicine forms that are already recognized in at least three other countries of the European Union, with priority to the most widespread forms in Greece such as Homeopathy and Acupuncture.
Establishment of a compulsory uniform computerisation in all units providing broader health services, including surgeries and pharmacies, which will be directly and continuously connected to the central computers of the Unified Health Agency.
Establishment of the change of the current legal status of the operation of Public and Private Hospitals, Health Centres, branches of IKA and Municipal Clinics, while establishing uniform criteria for their operation in terms of their obligations to the Single Health Authority, their infrastructure and their staff.
Establishment of a minimum percentage obligation (15%) for the provision of services to the insured persons of the Single Health Insurance Fund, all businesses and professionals providing health care and health services.
Abolition of the current National Health Service and its replacement by a broader National Health System supervised by the Single Health Authority, which will include the EHIC, the Public Hospitals, 15% of the beds of the Private Hospitals, the Health Centres, the branches of IKA, the Municipal Clinics and the family doctors.
Θ. The LA.O'.S.'s Vision for Greece
Dear Fili, Dear Friend, Now that you have read this text, I think it is clearer to you who we are, what we seek and what we believe, what we are not and what we reject.
But I want to share something else with you.
My vision, the vision of the People's Orthodox Rally, for Greece.
Α. Our perspective
We see the world's recorded human history, from its beginning to the present day, as a great and long race.
During the 4,000 years that this race has lasted until today, many times and for several centuries the Greeks have been in first place.
∆But it has not been able to hold this position, even on occasions when it has found itself far ahead of all other peoples.
What happened to lose that first place?
What happened?
Are there some inherent elements in our culture and tradition that make us consistently undermine each other and lose what we have worked so hard to gain, starting over again each time?
What must we change in our mentality in order to lead the race of world civilisation again?
What do we need to instil in our people in order to maintain, this time for a longer period of time, our leading position?
We see human society as a dynamic set of individual personalities forced to live together for the individual and for the common good.
And for this coexistence to be harmonious, it needs clear rules, clear boundaries of rights and obligations,
it needs an administration that is exercised for the good of the many and the weak and not for the good of the few and the strong.
What is needed is a truly democratic regime, which will liberate human potential instead of imprisoning it.
One that respects people's diversity and rewards value, effort and effort.
That will really take care of all those who need it.
Which will have as its focus the needs of man and not of power.
Which will be people-centred and not plutocratic.
What happened that we lost our way?
What happened to get to the point of "Greece eating its own children"?
How did we end up as a "scab"?
How did we come to take for granted and accept that we are governed by people who, when we accuse them of stealing from us, the only answer we get is that we have to accept it because the others we can choose to govern us have also stolen from us or will steal from us?
Who wants us to be spineless beings who should lose the choice of voting for people who will not steal from us?
Who wants us to be spineless creatures who have to accept that the only choice we have with our vote is to choose between being robbed by the people of the New Democracy or PASOK?
Β. The current reality
Dear Fili, Dear Friend, We know the current reality of Greece.
And we are fighting for the future, our future, our children's future and the future of our children's children.
But this is the Greece of today, whose ministers are begging for an invitation to America,
where we are giving in to pressures that even our much smaller Cyprus can withstand,
where anyone who does not steal is considered an "asshole",
where everyone has to sit on everyone else in order to get ahead,
where dignity is considered a social handicap,
this Greece of today, created by the governments of the New Republic and PASOK, is neither to our liking, nor to our liking, nor does it suit us, nor does it deserve us.
What about you?
Do you remember how you felt the last time you were provocatively wronged by a public official or the state itself?
The last time you lost your job or promotion because you didn't "sit down" with the right person or for someone else or someone else who "sat down" with you to get it?
The last time they "opened" your house or shop and took away your valuables and most importantly, your sense of security?
The last time you had to pay for your health care even though you've been paying your health fund for years to get free doctors?
The last time you were mocked for not evading taxes, not stealing or not taking money?
The last time your dignity was shredded in your attempt to survive?
The last time you remained silent in the face of a wrongdoing that was going on in front of you and did not have the courage to report it, either because you thought nothing was happening or because you thought about what you would risk if you did so?
The last time you were called an "asshole" or did you feel socially handicapped for not being "lame" enough?
Do you remember how you felt when you heard the Prime Minister of PASOK talking about the "fast track"
or the Minister of the New Republic justifying the "envelope" of the customs officers?
When PASOK stole your money on the Stock Exchange
or when you found out that the New Republic had stolen your pension fund money and your pension was at risk?
Do you like this Greece of today, created by the governments of the New Republic and PASOK?
Does it suit you?
Do you deserve it?
We are human beings and we have the right to dream and to envision.
We know that it is not certain that our dreams will come true.
But we also know that nothing has ever been made, nothing has ever been won, without some people having first envisioned it.
We have the right to our vision and we have the right to fight for it.
Γ. Our Vision for tomorrow
Dear Fili, Dear Friend, We envision that we will be happy for a few years and our children will live their lives in a different Greece, a better Greece.
A Greece that will be at the intellectual, economic, social and political forefront of Europe and the world.
To a Greece where you will live in security and tranquility.
In a Greece where the basic living problems of its citizens will have been solved and where there will be no people living in extreme poverty.
In a Greece where respect for every aspect of human dignity will be the common rule.
In a Greece where those who denounce irregularities and wrongdoings will be supported, rewarded and not hunted down.
To a more modern Greece, free from the influences and dependencies of the current economic and party oligarchy of our country,
without the extra-institutional power of the media, without "couples" and "black political money".
A Greece whose political leadership will be committed to serving the people
and to creating a reality that will promote and serve the political, economic, social and cultural interests of the country.
A Greece that is nationally independent and strong, whose territorial integrity will not be endangered.
A Greece with social justice and clear rules in all aspects of economic and social life, allowing every Greek to enjoy the products of his labour.
In a Greece where income inequality has been combated, where the
cultivation of thought is taken care of and where all its inhabitants participate in true Greek education.
In a Greece where the work and residence of all its citizens will be guaranteed.
A Greece that will substantially support motherhood, children and old age,
that will truly protect the institution of the family
and will have all the necessary structures to ensure that there will be Greeks in the long run
. A Greece that you will be happy to live in.
A Greece that will make you proud not only of your origins but also of your country.
It is a basic and inalienable human right to hope and vision.
I, we in the People's Orthodox Rally, have the vision of a better Greece and we will try to put it into practice through the positions outlined in this text.
We hope that in our vision you may have recognised yours.
And you decided to move forward with us.
We know that it may not.
In this second case, we hope that with the text of the "Framework of Positions" of the People's Orthodox Rally we will have given you food for thought and made you think again about your political choices.
If you ended up with the same ones you had before, we respect that.
And it's enough for us that we were able to make you think about politics again.
Because, for us, this is also a step on the way to realising our vision.
Dear Friend, Dear Friend, I invite you to walk with me.
Share the path to the realisation of the vision of the People's Orthodox Rally.
I invite you to walk with us towards a better Greece, towards the Greece we deserve, that suits us and that we like.
Member of the European Parliament President of the L.O.S.
