Greek People, On 25 January you are going to decide on the future of the country.
Leaving aside the false and big words of politicians, overcoming with courage the blackmail and fear, I invite you to vote for the Movement of the Greek Nationalists, the GOLDEN AYGI.
Those who have not compromised and will not compromise.
I address this message to you from the cell of a prison, where I am unjustly standing, paying the price for not betraying the Nation and its Values, for not submitting to the junta of the Memorandum.
On January 25, 2015 you have the opportunity to punish those who led you to your current misery, but also those who lie to you,
you have the opportunity with the power of your vote to make the GOLDEN DAWN even stronger, to make the GOLDEN DAWN the force that will free you from the shackles of both the Memorandum and the ethno-legalistic Marxists.
GOLDEN DAWN for a strong Greece, GOLDEN DAWN against traitors and worshippers, GOLDEN DAWN for Greece and Nationalism.
N.G. MICHALOLIAKOS
SECRETARY GENERAL OF GLOBAL AWARDS KORYDALLOU PRISONERSLearn more about us:http://www.xryshaygh.com/ Call centre for all Greece: 210 69 85 121POLITICAL PROGRAMMES CLEFTES IN PRISON GREEKS IN POWER
FOR THE GOLDEN DAWN OF HELLENISM
THE PROGRAMME OF THE PEOPLE'S ASSOCIATION
for the recovery of our national economy, the demographic boom and the geostrategic upgrading of our country
DENUNCIATION OF THE MEMORANDUM
AUDIT AND DEBT HAIRCUT
Golden Dawn remains firm in its position on the unilateral termination of the Memorandum, unlike
Syriza, which has already agreed with the international loan sharks to continue the memorandum policy through the ECCL line.
When the People's League forms a national government, it will immediately proceed to hold a double referendum.
The fresh popular mandate from the overwhelming majority of Greek citizens will give us real bargaining power against the loan shark "partners" who are terrified at the sound of the word "referendum".
We will therefore ask the Greeks whether they want: a) the immediate termination of the memorandum and the
start of negotiations with the Troika from scratch and
b) the audit and cancellation of the illegal and burdensome debt.
ABOLITION OF BURDENSOME MEMORANDUM MEASURES AND BLOODY TAXATION
These two actions are feasible, offer viable solutions and ensure that our country has the opportunity to develop in a real way by restarting national production.
The denunciation of the Memorandum will immediately lead to the abolition of all the disastrous Memorandum measures that have led thousands of our fellow citizens to suicide.
The only requirement is that Greece be represented by serious political actors and not by the current Berlin officials, Venizelos and Samaras, who have been fed by Siemens for decades.
Tsipras and Syriza are even afraid to utter the word "referendum".
Obviously because the international terrorists in Brussels and the crows of the markets who speculate here at the expense of Greece do not like this word.
A strong, nationalist Greece, with a European orientation and a parallel goal of expanding its geopolitical horizons by turning towards Russia and China,
can escape from the current sovereign-protectorate relationship, which links it to its usurious lenders.
Regime fairy tales about... grexit and bankrun:
the fear of Grexit invoked by the "Samarovenians" is not real, because this is not foreseen by the very structures of the common currency.
The Commission can go to the European Court of Justice if it considers that a country is not fulfilling some of its obligations, but it cannot... throw it out of the euro like a naughty primary school pupil.
But the notorious bank run is also a myth that serves the cunning government politicians.
Even if the two-month extension of the memorandum expires, Greece will still be able to proceed to a double referendum and negotiate,
without having to immediately sign any new commitment, such as the Preventive Support Line that Samaras propagates and Tsipras has accepted.
It will simply need to enter an emergency liquidity assistance (ELA) regime and nothing will change in substance, except for the ECB raising the lending rates of systemic banks by about 1%.
Our loan shark "partners" will not give us anything, of course, so only a sovereign national state, which will highlight the geostrategic advantages of Hellenism, is capable of negotiating and claiming our national rights.
A strong nationalist Greece that will exploit its energy wealth for the benefit of Greeks will certainly have a completely different position on the international economic chessboard.
The path of Golden Dawn, that is, the path of resistance, is not easy and the solutions we propose are not magical, but they are possible.
It takes hard work from everyone, a nationwide effort and years of toil to lift Greece up.
POLITICAL CLEANSING
"THE THIEVES IN PRISON, THE STOLEN GOODS TO THE GREEK PEOPLE"
The aim of Golden Dawn is the overthrow of the corrupt post-communist system of power through the electoral process.
An immediate political catharsis is required.
Thieving politicians and sworn public officials should go to jail
and at the same time the property of those who have abused the sweat of the Greek people should be confiscated.
We demand the immediate abolition of parliamentary immunity and the law on the responsibility of ministers.
The ridding of public life of the corrupt and the crooked.
The establishment of special audit teams that will search for those responsible for the misappropriation of public money in all ministries and state agencies.
And finally, the referral to a special court, the imprisonment of those found guilty and the confiscation of their property.
NATIONAL INDEPENDENCE
Greece must first and foremost become a free and sovereign state again.
Golden Dawn's foreign policy philosophy is based on the "doctrine of strategic depth".
Greece has enormous strategic depth, which can provide it with inexhaustible power and international influence.
The strategic depth of Greece is the Aegean Sea and its maritime extension that reaches as far as the island of Cyprus.
The geopolitical value of this region and the still untapped resources that it encloses, can not only solve the modern economic problems of our state, but also give it a prominent position in the international economic and strategic chessboard.
GEOSTRATEGIC TURN: An immediate shift, investment and energy first, towards Russia and China.
A trade and defence agreement with these two states would free the country from the deadly embrace of the US and its allies.
The recent economic disaster caused to thousands of Greeks by the EU's embargo on the Russians is indicative of the wrong course of our foreign policy.
Territorial waters to 12 nautical miles: denouncing to the UN Security Council the Turkish casus belli and extending our territorial waters to 12 nautical miles.
This move makes the Aegean Sea a closed Greek sea and gives us the ability to control navigation in the Straits of Propontis.
CYPRUS: Implementation of the Doctrine of the Common Defence Area between Greece and Cyprus, which in combination with the contiguous EEZs of the two states, will amount to a de facto union of the island with Greece.
Greek warplanes at Paphos airport and Greek frigates in the territorial waters of the island.
The natural gas deposits south of Crete, as a natural continuation of the Cypriot deposits, make the creation of a Greek Cypriot energy pipeline to the European market an immediate necessity.
Greece today can start producing again, by writing off its burdensome debt, exploiting its mineral wealth and its strong geostrategic position.
POPULAR SOVEREIGNTY
Holding referendums on all major national issues such as the memorandum and the debt.
The President of the Republic to be elected directly by the people.
Ministers and deputy ministers will not be allowed to be MPs (separation of powers) and will be appointed on the basis of knowledge and experience.
MPs to be reduced to 180 and retire from their professional funds.
All immunities and privileges of MPs and ministers are abolished.
A massive reduction in their total pay.
Parties will not be publicly funded and their finances will be controlled.
DEVELOPMENT WILL COME ONLY THROUGH NATIONAL PRODUCTION WITH SELF-SUFFICIENCY AS A MINOR OBJECTIVE
Samaras' success story collapsed overnight because it was based on fictitious, banking indicators and not on the basis of any economy, i.e. national production.
The first goal of Golden Dawn is Greek self-sufficiency in all the basic necessities of life of our people.
A state needs FOOD, DRUGS, FUEL AND GARBAGE to survive, remain free and create.
Strengthening and planning our agricultural and livestock production to fully meet our internal needs in basic foodstuffs.
Greece is a rich country and although in the last three decades we have literally destroyed and dismantled our national production, we have dismantled our primary sector, we have dismantled our agriculture and livestock farming,
Greece today can start producing again, by writing off its burdensome debt, by exploiting its mineral wealth and its strong geostrategic position.
The Golden Dawn thunders: Yes to National Production!
Because, as Panagiotis Kondylis says, 1% industrial development is worth a hundred times more than 1% tourism development or consumer expansion, because the former alone contributes to the self-sufficiency of the country.
NATURAL GAS - OIL
According to Deutsche Bank, the existence of rich natural gas deposits south of Crete, worth 427 billion euros, is considered certain and in terms of timelines these revenues will come within 8 years.
These estimates relate only to the area south of Crete and not to the confirmed gas fields in Western Greece, nor to the oil fields in the northern Aegean, the exploitation of which began in 1973 (the Prinos field).
The memorandum regime has buried the case of "Greek energy".
Berlin's loan sharks forbid them to proceed with exploration and mining.
The Syriza party is following exactly the same traitorous line, stating that it will not exploit the country's energy deposits for reasons of... ecology!
Golden Dawn is the only Movement with clear positions on Greek energy:
- Immediate nationalization of all our energy deposits and return of the profits from their exploitation to the Greek people, with the main objective of making Greece a strategic energy hub;
- Call for an international tender for the award of the huge project of exploration and extraction of oil and gas that the Greek economic exploitation zone encompasses. -
Conclusion of a defence agreement and the start of military cooperation with those states with which it is possible to have a convergence of geopolitical interests
and not a natural and posited OPPOSITION and whose joint ventures will bid in the tender for the exploration and exploitation of our energy deposits.
"If the areas south of Crete, the findings in Western Greece, Kastelorizo and the Herodotus basin, which extends between Greece, Cyprus and Egypt, are exploited, then Europe's energy autonomy will be covered for 50 years" //||A. Zelilidis, Professor of Geology, University of Patras
The above actions offer our country the possibility of saving large profits from oil and gas extraction from all lengths and widths of the Aegean Sea, as well as from the gold-bearing triangle of Crete - Cyprus - Dodecanese.
In essence, they turn Greece into a central power in the geopolitically sensitive area of the Eastern Mediterranean.
IRON ORES - PRECIOUS MINERALS
Greece, according to Bloomberg, has the potential to become the largest gold-producing country in Europe by 2016, surpassing Finland.
Production in 2016 will reach 425,000 ounces of gold (worth $757 million at current prices), far exceeding the 16,000 ounces the country produced in 2011 (Finland produces 220,000 ounces by comparison).
Unfortunately, the Greek state does not invest in these huge potentials of the country, but sells off our national wealth to foreign companies (Glory Resources, owner of the mine in Sapes Rodopi and Eldorado Gold, parent company of European Goldfields).
At the same time, domestic contractors - channel owners are also entering the game with photographic provisions and agreements that literally trample on the Greek state.
A major scandal is the assignment of the gold of Chalkidiki to a company of Bompolas' interests (owner of Mega and Aktoras, which collects exorbitant tolls for highways - karmanioles).
Golden Dawn's constant position is the NATIONALIZATION OF ALL OUR PLANT PRODUCTION SOURCES
and the return of the profits from their exploitation to the Greek people, through the subsidization of domestic production in every sector.
Where there is insufficient expertise for mining, the Greek State will become a shareholder in the consortia that will bid in the relevant tenders.
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
(AGRICULTURE - LIVESTOCK - FISHERIES)
-Writing off the debts of Greek farmers, a move similar to that of the military regime of 1967, which gave a new impetus to the Greek agricultural economy.
-Direct link between agricultural production and consumption. Adefinitive end to the impunity of the middlemen - gas-guzzlers.
- Subsidies for agricultural production from the special fund that will arise from the exploitation of Greek hydrocarbons.
Emphasis on marginal areas, especially in Thrace and the islands of the Eastern Aegean;
-Register of farmers, so that they can obtain tax-free oil of Greek production and supplies (fertilizers and soil conditioners) from the rich subsoil of our country without intermediaries, in order to reduce production costs.
Utilization of our minerals for the production of organic fertilizers and soil mapping by Greek universities of agricultural areas for the preparation of fertilization programs and supplies for plant protection;
-Mandatory introduction of the recycling of agricultural production residues for the production of organic fertilizers with the aim of sustainability at the national level.
RADICAL CHANGES IN ECONOMIC AND PUBLIC LIFE
SOCIALLY RESPONSIBLE BANK DEBT WRITE-OFF:
The national state must impose the cancellation of the bank debts of Greek families according to social criteria and relieve the low economic strata from the unbearable burden of usurious loans.
It's sad that the Greek people are paying for the recapitalization of private banks.
It is unacceptable that the money received by the bankers from the Troika should be converted into public debt without the state receiving a percentage of their shares in return.
A strong National Bank under state control to subsidise national production.
ENTRY OF THE OCCUPATION LOAN IN THE STATE BUDGET:
At the Paris Peace Conference in 1946, Germany's occupation debt to Greece amounted to 100 billion euros.
Since then, the interest-free nature of the debt has ceased, and with the addition of a token interest rate, the debt now stands at €510 billion.
Of course, there are other estimates by reputable European economists who put the figure at €575 billion (Jacques Delpla in Les Echos - 23/6/11).
The German government, which is also largely responsible for the Greek debt bubble, has a strong claim on the occupational loan.
The easy loans from the European Union that Greece received in the last decades gave life to the German export industry and to this day they are being repaid on miserable usury terms.
Only a truly national leadership can claim the rights of Greece and the offsetting of our debt to Germany against the occupation loan.
DISTRIBUTION OF INCOME AND NATIONAL WEALTH: Social inequalities and the unconditional handing over of our national wealth to a dragon of plutocrats must be stopped immediately.
Greek society is being crushed by the memorandum measures, while
a few families are getting rich uncontrollably at the expense of the people and dominate the political and economic life of the country.
These plutocrats-public life pimps were only named by Golden Dawn in parliament, which is why they were subjected to a terrible mud war by their channels and newspapers.
The People's League is the only political force that is not bound by big interests and economic trusts
and sets as its first goal the elimination of social inequalities and the equal redistribution of national wealth to the entire Greek people.
CLEANING THE PUBLIC SECTOR: Immediate dismissal of those who were hired illegally and unduly.
Immediate transfer to productive jobs of those civil servants who do not have a meaningful job.
The public sector should not live at the expense of the Greek people, but should start operating productively and for the benefit of the whole.
EVERY FOREIGN WORKER IS A GREEK WORKER: Deporting all illegal immigrants means thousands of new jobs for Greeks.
But we must point out that the presence of illegal immigrants in the country has not only benefited the big contractors, who have earned countless millions from black labour in public works.
It was also exploited by thousands of our compatriots, who preferred to leave their land and their work and pretend to be "contractors" themselves, sending illegal immigrants to build and work in the fields.
AN END TO ILLEGAL IMMIGRATION
Golden Dawn distinguishes Greek citizens from foreign nationals legally residing in the country and of course from illegal immigrant invaders (illegal or illegally legalized).
Illegal immigrant invaders are a disorganized army, which disintegrates the social structure and alienates our national identity.
Therefore, illegal immigrants, as a foreign body to Greek society and as violators of the existing legislation, must be immediately deported:
- Immediate arrest and repatriation of all illegal immigrants to their countries of origin.
Until their final repatriation, they will be transferred to special detention facilities far from the inhabited areas of the Greek territory, where conditions will not resemble a 5-star hotel.
The phenomenon of detaining illegals in luxury centres with air conditioning, free meals and amenities that hundreds of thousands of Greek citizens lack is unacceptable and will be stopped immediately.
-Idionymous any crime committed by a foreigner.
Sentences will not be served in prisons, but in special detention facilities, where work will be produced for the public sector.
-Criminalisation of illegal trade in foreigners and strict tax control on remittances sent to their countries by illegal immigrants.
To stop the huge loss of revenue for the Greek state.
Zero tolerance for international smuggling rings.
DEMOGRAPHY IS A MAJOR NATIONAL PROBLEM
In addition to the country's difficult economic situation and the disintegration of the state, there is an even greater danger for Hellenism.
We refer to the demographic decline of our nation.
Simply put, in a few years we will be a minority in our own country.
In order to solve this major issue, Golden Dawn sets the following as prerequisites:- Tax relief for all couples having a child.
Unfortunately, the new tax measures of the coalition government hit the family, instead of strengthening it, tangible proof of the ethnonationalism of the political system.
-One-off cash assistance to every new Greek born.
This proposal was made more specific in the House.
Golden Dawn has drafted a law to reduce by 80% the state subsidies to political parties.
The money saved from this action should be distributed to young Greek children.
For 2014 alone, the state would save €50 million.
-Subsidising maternity and generously supporting families with three or more children.
Protection of the unmarried mother and a ban on abortion.
The nation state must first of all invest in its future, i.e. in the new generations of Greeks.
HEALTH AND SOCIAL WELFARE
-Block the practices of corrupt and kleptocratic management.
An audit of public hospitals and a definitive end to wasteful spending.
Imposition of severe penalties on offending hospital administrators, doctors, nurses and administrative employees;
-Subsidy for the domestic pharmaceutical industry and preference for the purchase of drugs produced in Greece - and not imported ones - for public hospitals;
- Immediate and strict priority for Greek patients, who have paid too dearly for the public health system and end up waiting in queues behind foreigners.
NATIONAL DEFENCE AND SECURITY
-Conscription of men and women (with the exception of mothers) at 18 years for 14 months.
Women in non-combat positions in urban centres and all men in combat units on the periphery;
-Nationalisation, restructuring and subsidisation of the key Greek defence industries (EAV, EAS, ELVO).
Co-production is a prerequisite for the ratification of any agreement on the purchase of weapons systems;
-Complete independence of the permanent members of the Armed Forces from the political parties and the abolition of trade unionism.
The Minister and Deputy Ministers of National Defence will necessarily come from the Armed Forces.
PUBLIC ORDER AND JUSTICE
-Withdrawal of police officers from clerical services and filling these positions with transfers from the wider public sector.
All police officers in combat and on the street.
Abolition of the unnecessary guarding of persons, anyone who wishes police protection should hire private individuals.
Re-establishment of the Ministry of Public Order with a Minister who will necessarily come from the ranks of combat officers.
Withdrawal of scribes and party leaders from the leadership of the EL.AΣ.
Re-establishment of the Gendarmerie and creation of a new Special Unit with heavy weapons to deal with new crime phenomena (foreign robbers with Kalashnikovs etc.);
-Establishment of a specific offence for serious offences that destroy social cohesion and destroy the national framework.
Introduce tougher penalties for sworn public officials and politicians.
Cleansing of the Greek Justice System from the criminal networks that cover the crimes of the corrupt government.
NATIONAL EDUCATION AND ORTHODOXY
- Emphasis on the learning of Greek Language and History by the new generation.
Teaching of ancient Greek and the works of the classical period at all educational levels.
Withdrawal of anti-Hellenic libel from education.
Sports education for the youth, which today is unfortunately the most obese in Europe;
-Removal of the university asylum and party factions, which are agents of corruption in higher education.
University a temple of research and knowledge, not a sanctuary for criminals
and a breeding ground for party cadres.
-Golden Dawn opposes the separation of Church and State.
It seeks the restoration of the authority of the Church and the immediate purification of the clergy from all decadent and internationalist elements.
Orthodoxy, reborn and Greek again, a pioneer in the struggles of the Nation.
