The "Coalition of the Radical Left"
was formed by left parties, organisations and non-aligned people with the aim of a political programme that would challenge the subordination of society to raw profit and exploitation as the only "realistic" solution.
We believe that the power of society to
defending its conquests and its dignity and claiming a better future is very strong, and it was clearly shown in the great mobilisation of the university community for Article 16.
And not only that. In recent years we have seen groups of people, large and small, mobilising against serious social problems such as war, poverty and the destruction of the environment.
Teachers took to the streets demanding a dignity wage
, citizens tore down fences to make the coasts public again,
farmers demanded the right to live from their work,
contract workers demanded the self-evident, legitimate right in society to permanent and stable work,
hundreds of militant initiatives were mobilised on local issues.
In all these struggles, the Left has been in the
front line, sending a message of optimism: another world is possible and it is up to us to conquer it.
Our tool is unity and we build it by pursuing a strong, useful and effective left, free from dogmatic entrenchment, but also fully consistent with the principles and values it proclaims.
Unity and common struggle for peace,
social conquests, individual freedoms, liberation from economic coercion.
To defend the environment by all means
and to choose a different way of development.
For a world without exclusion, intolerance and social racism.
For a democratic Europe accountable to the needs of workers and youth, free from the neoliberal coercion of the European Union.
All of us who form and support the "Coalition of the Radical Left" believe firmly in the trade union and social movements.
We proved it in practice when we met in anti-war mobilizations, in student occupations, in movements against neoliberal globalization, in every effort to claim social and labor rights, in practical and militant defense of ecological balance, the environment and social services and rights in the city and the countryside, for all without exception.
We participate with all our strength in the fight against poverty and social exclusion,
we fight with passion against nationalism and racism
and we resolutely defend the human rights of migrants.
Wherever the voice of society expresses itself powerfully and confidently, plans for an increasingly worse world are extremely difficult.
So the message is that the voice of citizens must be heard loudly and collectively.
These social resistances, which challenge the current situation, need to be transformed into a political programme: a political programme that puts society, labour, people and the environment above the (tax-free) profits of 50 companies.
In the present era, people's living and working conditions are determined by the constraints of the "free market" as neoliberalism is elegantly called.
Behind rhetoric and elegant phrases, the plan of neoliberalism is one: to bring all aspects of social life under the control of profit.
This is clearly visible in Greece, in Europe and throughout the world. Το we live in our daily lives.
The two major parties hide neoliberalism behind a rhetoric of "necessary reforms".
But when they talk about "reforms" they mean the abolition of even the last conquests and rights of the welfare state.
They mean massive privatisation and commercialisation in health, education, education, the social security system, public utilities, environmental protection, etc.
They mean a drastic reduction in the wages of workers in these sectors,
and a drastic cut in benefits to citizens, in favour of the profitability of private companies.
The welfare state, the environment, the forests become a pawn in an economic -neoliberal- model that hands over everything to profit: housing development, energy, public transport, agricultural production -that is, the food chain-, open and undeveloped spaces, the reserves of social security funds.
During the four years of the New Democracy, we have seen large parts of the public sector being ceded to private interests, an
attack on the public character of education, the
abolition of the 8-hour week, a
drastic reduction in overtime pay, the
rise of flexible employment and the perpetuation of the wild overexploitation of contract workers.
Now the plan is moving towards its completion: in the next 4 years they threaten the public insurance system with final demolition,
while they are preparing the complete "liberalisation" of collective dismissals and the replacement of collective labour agreements with the transition to the miserable regime of individual "agreements" between employers and employees.
The acceleration of privatisations (PPC, OTE, TT, ports, etc.) opens the way for health and education.
On one condition: that they do not face massive social reactions.
In order for the "reform" parties in power to proceed, they need to promote a few more things: they need a society that is apathetic, defeated, manipulated by the media and without expectations.
They need bureaucratic and weak unions with no will to struggle and no sense of social solidarity.
Finally, they need control mechanisms to prevent any mobilisation in the name of "security".
That is, cameras, surveillance mechanisms and "praetors", since this is the "free market" conception of democracy.
The two parties in power have no major issue to disagree with each other.
That is why they try to draw attention to a meaningless rhetorical debate, talking vaguely about "responsibility", "consistency" and "commitment".
Against what exactly? The government of New Democracy has found a pretext to break its election promises by putting the country under the notorious surveillance of the European Union.
Now he is restoring them by underestimating the intelligence of the citizens.
For its part, PASOK not only limited itself to a conciliatory opposition to ND, not only avoids committing itself to every central demand of the people's struggles, but does not hesitate on crucial issues (social security, Article 16) to formulate positions that lead to a direct conflict with the interests of the popular masses, while at the same time invoking its anti-rightist syndromes in search of an alibi on the left.
The two parties are hiding behind the guidelines of the European Union, guidelines that were created with their blessing and assistance, precisely for this purpose: to promote changes at the expense of social gains, without the governments bearing the political costs.
Workers and youth understand this situation very well. Καταλαβαίνουν the mockery.
They understand that the commitment of the major parties to the demands of the bankers and the industrialists implies a plan to overthrow social security and labour relations and the intention to hand over every public good to the "market forces".
People's expectations from such a miserable and stupid political scene have now been reduced to a minimum.
That is why we believe that the time has come for great social struggles and a strong Left.
In this section there is a place for all those who believe that a different society is possible and that it is up to us to win it.
