What will be decided in the elections is whether the people will come out ahead or whether it will be one of the same thing, which is called regression.
We will have one of the same if both the Southwest and PASOK are not decisively weakened.
There will be profit only with a strong KKE.
The KKE:
He was justified in what he said to you.
He always spoke to you honestly.
He stood by the struggles of the people, the youth.
In the factories, in the yards, in the fields, in the schools, in the streets.
It is not compatible with the plutocracy.
The KKE is flesh of the flesh of the working class and the popular strata.
They can't put it in the hand.
With a strong KKE the people will breathe a sigh of relief.
With a strong KKE the workers' - people's movement will take a big step forward.
With a strong KKE we will better resist the worst that is coming and in the process pave the way for radical changes.
For an economy that serves the people and not the profits of the few.
Vote for the KKE, regardless of whether you agree with it on everything.
Workers who voted for ND and were cheated by it.
Voters of PASOK who rightly feel that it has betrayed you.
Radical leftists, vote - support the KKE!
It is time to look forward and far ahead.
For the future of our children, for the future of the country.
The dilemma of ND or PASOK does not concern you.
Your dilemma must be: Will you submit to big capital, its parties and their allies, or will you take the path of rupture and subversion, aiming at people's power, people's economy?
That is why it makes no difference which party comes first.
What matters is that the legs of the two-party system shake, that it emerges from the ballot boxes frightened and weak.
The weaker they are, the more difficult it will be for them to implement the unpopular policy.
The Southwest wants to become government again, to continue its work!
You saw it!
He says there is no money for the people's needs.
There are, but the wealth you produce goes to the big business groups.
They burst out of profits, they caused the crisis.
PASOK has the same policy.
He has deceived you many times, he will deceive you now.
Don't get your hopes up from fanfare about green growth and transparency.
Austerity and unemployment, you had your rights violated when PASOK was in power, you will have the same and worse if the government comes back into power.
ND and PASOK are parties of the EU, of the plutocracy, which attacks the people with all its parties, conservative and social-democratic.
You are being called upon to pay for the capitalist crisis again.
ND and PASOK are mired in the mire of predation and scandals.
Vote against them!
They are preparing even worse days for the people.
It overtook the reactionary LA.O.S. and the insolvent SYN/SYRIZA, the so-called Ecologists and all the supplements of the rotten political system.
They are looking for an opportunity to give a helping hand, to the Southwest, the L.O.O.S., to PASOK, SYN/SYRIZA and the Ecologists.
They are also EU parties.
Only the KKE has a pro-popular proposal.
It tells you that the life you lead is not a one-way street, that you can change it by fighting against the monopolies and their power.
It is not your fate to have unemployment, starvation wages and pensions, expensive education, health care, welfare; it is not your fate to have forests burned, coastlines trampled, to drown at the first floods, to have no earthquake protection.
Only the KKE argues in a well-documented way that the wealth produced by the workers belongs to them.
Only the KKE says that the workers can live without their exploiters, while the plutocracy cannot exist for a moment without the workers.
Only the KKE maintains that the people can become the protagonist of developments in their own interest through their movement.
Only the KKE calls for indiscipline and disobedience to EU decisions and the governments' anti-people's laws.
All other "solutions" have been tried.
Your back knows them.
The road proposed by the KKE has sacrifices, but they are less than the ones you are enduring and we can deal with them.
Do not succumb to the ideological terror of ungovernability.
The plutocracy will make government one way or another.
It's her problem and they make it yours.
Fend off the dilemmas, the blackmail, all the dirty means they will use to get your vote.
They want a strong government to bring you to your knees, to flatten you.
Turn your back on them.
It's up to you to be strong.
Be counted!
That's the only way you can stop them and tomorrow overthrow them.
Stand up!
Beat defeatism and fatalism!
Close your ears to anti-communism, to slander against the KKE.
Those who bring you unemployment, precision, pension at 70, insecurity and blackmail you for a piece of bread are throwing mud at the KKE.
They throw mud at the KKE, to say that we are all the same, to hide from you that there is another way.
To give in to despair, to feel frustrated, alone, surrendered to the appetites of capital.
It is up to the majority of the people, now that the knot has come to a head, to turn the elections into a springboard for regroupment and counterattack, to become a visible victorious step that will allow the opponent to be less powerful the next day, the movement to be stronger and more effective.
A stronger KKE - A stronger People.
