Potami publishes 99 proposals for the governance of the country.
Our Movement seeks to change Greece.
We believe that our country can soon become an open society, without a client state, without inequalities, a strong rule of law and an outward-looking economy.
We know that the changes required to reach our destination are neither easy nor automatic.
What is needed is methodical preparation, coordination, long-term planning, consensus and courage, which
all the old parties failed in.
That's why we started from the beginning.
Working groups and many volunteers are currently working for this purpose in Potami.
Our proposals are of course open for discussion on our online platform.
Because Potami is not a static party.
Friends of Potami who are not volunteers can write to the Coordination Committee at syntonistiki@topotami.gr.
1. Spirit of change
Societies can and should evolve their institutions.
Through this change, people, the world and people's view of the world change.
Many people think that the economic crisis has made the institutions of Greek society ineffective.
However, the opposite happened.
Greece collapsed economically, because the institutions were overcome and the rules of post-communist society were ignored.
It is now time to renew the institutions and in this bold reform all citizens must have a say.
Not only the old parties, as has been the case hierarchically up to now, not only Potami, because that might have been in our interest, but all those who make up Greek society.
Potami does not imagine that it will change the world, it will become the catalyst for people to change the world.
2. The new patriotism
The country needs a new patriotism.
Patriotism has nothing whatsoever to do with aggressive, expansionist, militaristic nationalism.
Love for the homeland does not mean hostility to other nations and states or the displacement of those foreigners who reside in our own.
The commitment to national independence indicates the will of the people to be free to organize their political and social life in harmony with the other people, their region and their territory. Europe.
The new patriotism is not limited to the invocation of the glorious past, but is inspired by faith in the potential of the country and its people.
The new patriotism is inspired and inspired by what the country needs and by the values that gave birth to modern Greece: freedom, equality and solidarity.
All those who abhor the misery of the past, who want to put an end to faylocracy, kleptocracy, corruption, participate in it.
Those who envision a productive, extroverted, progressive Greece, equal in Europe.
3. Cooperation means acceptance of the other
Potami is distinguished by a spirit of cooperationc;. It believes in the partnership of forces, in the "conspiracy of good".
The willingness to cooperate indicates the acceptance of the other as a partner.
Cooperation does not imply weakness, subordination or some kind of hidden transaction.
The aim of any partnership is to synthesise and multiply forces in a common direction. This is what we seek.
Cooperation does not mean unconditional compromise;. We will not cooperate with anyone on any terms.
4. Democracy means self-limitation
The establishment and observance of rules is a necessary condition for the well-being of any human society.Freedom is not arbitrary.
Democracy is the polytope of self-limitation.
Citizens are responsible for their choices and actions.
Are they responsible for his votec?.
With it they shape the law, the state.
Laws are the expression of the will of the citizens. That is why it is imperative that the laws are obeyed.
Democracy means that we can always change the law. But, until we change it, we know we have a duty to keep it.
S.State and development
Potami knows yes to the market economy, but knows no to the market society.
The state has the basic services of justice, education, health and security.
With its large public investment, it ensures the balanced development of the country, leading society to development.
Social wealth and employment will be generated mainly by the private sector of the economy.
The role of the state is not to substitute the private economy but to create the conditions that allow entrepreneurship to flourish, without distortions.
6. The public sector's rationalisation serves the welfare state
In Greece, 90% of the unemployed are without help.
In Britain and Germany the corresponding figure is 0%. Why? Because the inefficiency of the Greek public sector hurts the social state and prevents the state from supporting those who really need it.
Cutting the public sector does not mean cutting state welfare.
On the contrary, it means meritocracy, fighting corruption, rationalising expenditure and proper prioritisation.
7. Accountability
Potami is committed to and supports the general principle of accountability.
Those who exercise power in the name of the citizens are obliged to be accountable, to give an account of the way they exercise that power.
Accountability is not only cash accountability, but also accountability for actions and commitments.
Exercising power without accountability is authoritarianism.
The institutionalisation of accountability at every level of power favours disengagement from partisanship, facilitates the rationalisation of administration and strengthens legitimacy.
Only with real institutional accountability will we be able to finally get rid of the cockamamie political system and the attitudes that pushed us into the memoranda.
8. Constitutional Review
Times are running like never before, while we are moving at a turtle's pace.
The policy must be accelerated. To do so, the institutions that slow it down need to be renewed.
It is necessary for the present Parliament, to begin the process of revising the Constitution, defined in the next revision.
One of the first changes that Potami prefers is the way of revision.
We seek a change to Article 11 of the Constitution to make it clear that the five-year period between revisions refers to the provisions under revision and not to the Constitution as a whole.
In this way, Parliament will be able at any time to review a provision of the Constitution, even if it has been reviewed in the last five years.
There is an urgent need to revise the infamous Article 86, "On Ministerial Responsibility", so that offences committed by ministers are subject to the same statute of limitations as those of other citizens.
Revise Article 63 which grants immunity to Members of Parliament.
Should Members have recourse to the protection of the Court of Justice? Parliamentc? only when they consider that their persecutionc? is political or abusive, as is the case in Britain.
Not to have it automatically, even when accused of common criminal law crimes.
The revision of Article 16 is necessary in order for university education to be provided by non-governmental, non-profit institutions.
Not universities that are like the ones that are squeezed into apartments in the city centre and get permission from the Ministry of Commerce, but serious universities that will attract foreign students to come and study in the country.
Addressing the dysfunctions of justice requires the initiation of a review of Articles 87-1 OOA of the Constitution.
Speeding up justice is hampered by arteriosclerotic and overreaching decrees that tie the hands of judges.
There should be a new regulation for the selection of the Presidents of the Independent Authorities by revising Article 1 O 1 A, which, in the absence of a proper meeting, has bankrupted the innovative institution, because there is no 4/5 majority in the Conference of Presidents of the Independent Authorities. Parliament.
We call for a revision of Article 90 of the Constitution, so that the President participates in the process. The President of the Republic in the selection of the leadership of the Supreme Courts, based on a list submitted by the parliamentary majority (three names) and the opposition (two names).
9. A fairer and more representative electoral system
Potami has a comprehensive and specific plan for a major reform of the electoral law.
The electoral system must be radically changed, it must be stable, representative, proportional.
The first condition is the division of the country into small regions. That is, to break up the A' and B' Athens, Attica, A' and B' Thessaloniki, A' and B' Piraeus and any others deemed necessary.
Each of these can be divided into three or four sections.
This puts a brake on the pursuit of the cross in huge districts, and on the advantage of the wealthy, prominent and heirless electorate.
The second condition is the possibility ofc? "double voting".
It is the so-called German system, which in this case can help us: one vote will be given to the national combination (Territory) and one vote to the local MP, who may belong to a party other than the one of the voter's choice for the Territory.
The number of deputies is urgently needed to be reduced, and for this a revision of the Constitution is not required, but a simple law.
Potami wants the abolition of the fifty seats for the party that comes first in the election.
Instead, it proposes that the first party should receive one constituency seat for every 1% of the vote.
All Greeks have the right to vote in the diaspora.
Hellenism abroad should have representation in parliament.
1 O. Sovereignty of the popular will. not populism
Modern democracies are increasingly tending in the direction of oligarchy.
Politics is not carried out by the people, but by a powerful, oligarchic elite.
In order to reverse this trend, representative democracy must be enriched with direct democratic institutions.
National and local referendums, recallability and a limit on the number of terms of office of those exercising executive power are proposals that could, where appropriate, be used in parallel with an institution of broad consultation and accountability.
Countries such as Italy and Switzerland have a tradition of referendums.
We can follow this in the design of the legal framework and determine the relevant condition, such as the number of signatures required, as well as the type and range of issues that can be put to referendum, while technological solutions can be used to reduce the high cost of holding referendums.
Through what is known as the "free process", citizens express their will directly and do not feel cut off from decision-making.
Most importantly: they are exercising democracy.
They understand the need to find compromise solutions, the need to respect the other point of view, and so it becomes more difficult for them to fall victim to demagogues and populists.
Issues of the rights of the majority or any minority or minority, it goes without saying that they are not put to a referendum.
11. Continuity in administration
Greece should have a government structure and public administration that will allow it to engage in long-term planning, support radical reforms and become efficient.
We propose the institutionalization of a c? A Governance Centre for the coordination of government policies and overall government work.
The members of the Cabinet must be reduced.
This is achieved directly by abolishing the deputy ministers and deputy ministers.
The number of ministries should be fixed, their responsibilities strictly defined and not subject to occasional changes.
Every time elections are either "threatened" or called, and until a new government is formed and officials are appointed, the "continuity of the state" is interrupted. and its functions are paralyzed.
In order to stop this modern Greek phenomenon, we need to institutionalise the appointment of deputy ministers for a term of office.
They will carry out their duties permanently, unhindered and without partisanship. The Commission will be responsible for his/her duties in key ministries, such as Education, Foreign Policy and Defence, Social Security, Health.
12. A public service with a vision and a programme
Every Ministry, Region and Legal Entity managing public money is required to draw up an action plan, which includes objectives, results and means by which they will be achieved.
At the same time, finances are in plain sight: Every ministry, region and legal entity that manages public money is obliged to post on its website what it spends and its justification.
13. Yes to evaluation
Human capital, civil servants, is the key mechanism for implementing change.
They need encouragement, not disparagement.
In this spirit, all civil servants should be evaluated in a meaningful and objective manner.
There should also be an evaluation of the quality of the services offered by the various structures of the administration.
The evaluation of structures and officials should also take into account the evaluation of the citizens to whom they are addressed.
Accordingly, and depending on the country's budgetary situation, a system of incentives should be in place, with additional material, grade and moral rewards corresponding to individual and collective performance and the type of service provided.
14. Ending corruption
The E.C.C. of "how do you want it?" of all politicians and public officials must be rigorous and systematic.
By random sampling, persons subject to "due diligence" will be checked by all categories.
Every year the number of audits in the category with the more cases of corruption found will be multiplied.
Disclosure of financial data on the functioning of the government (excluding sensitive services), parliament and transparency in the way parties are financed.
The municipalities, hospitals and other organisations that will be audited will be selected by random sampling, with a lottery open to the public and conditions to ensure the integrity of the process.
Throughout the whole of the c? Agencyc? Localc? Local Government will be subject to thorough audits of expenditure, payments and compliance with legality by the Court of Auditors and auditing bodies.
Is it necessary to activate the institution immediately? Autonomous? Service? Supervision? OTA and the Legality Auditor established by Law No. 3852/201 O (Kallikrates Law).
Potami proposes the review of the role of the Coordinator during the c? Corruption Coordinator, so that it becomes an explicitly independent coordinating body of all the judicial and administrative authorities and services involved, and that it becomes the main rapporteur in the Parliament for legislative regulations on anti-corruption measures.
We propose the institution of the Inspector General of Public Service; Administration? Independent? Administrative? Authority, in order to increase its authority, to minimise its dependence on the government majority and to ensure its position as an independent disciplinary body of the administration.
Strengthening the resources of the Ombudsman, which is an E.N.A. institution and plays an important role in dealing with everyday phenomena of maladministration.
What is now needed is its institutional interconnection with the municipal and regional citizen's and company's co-operative.
Transparency on the role and funding of NGOs.
Annual publication of its financial data and its work, as well as the names of its executives.
Accountability of NGOs to the competent national and European funding agencies
15. Local government with its own resources
The charterc; and the responsibilitiesc; of thec; Localc? Local government should be reconsidered.
The aim is to produce work and not to produce papers through conflicting competences. municipalities and regions.
Local government must have responsibilities and resources to respond to them.
The rationalisation of property taxes should be both determined and collected by local government.
This will be the main source of revenue for thec?.
16. Local assemblies
Local or partial issues can be addressed by the direct expression of the will of citizens in institutionalised local assemblies.
Technological means, such as electronic voting, can be used for this purpose.
Neighbourhood councils can operate both in parallel and independently of local government.
They can rebuild the community institution, without representation and subsidies, but with transparency and participation.
17. Technology at the service of citizens
The citizen should be able to control his/her transactions with the Public Administration through the central government portal ERMIS.
That is why we are calling for the strengthening of ERMIS to cover all the communication needs of the citizen with the Administration.
A similar reinforcement is needed at the CCPs.
The introduction of electronic signatures, digital accounting documents and digital files, generally equivalent to standards, will facilitate transactions and help modernise the functioning of the State.
Institutionalisation of the citizen's card: each citizen is given a unique number, which allows him/her to be identified in every transaction with the public.
18. The "final text"
Every attempt by the citizen to study the existing legislation stumbles over the endless provisions, articles, laws and paragraphs of previous laws, which are either amended or repealed or remain in force.
It is necessary both to simplify and to update the legislation, as well as to codify it in its entirety by issuing a single law with all the previous provisions in force incorporated into it, to be called the 'final text'.
The 'final text' favours transparency, puts a brake on polygamy, simplifies the life of the citizen, prevents the use of the 'final text' for the benefit of the public. "photographic" orders.
This task should be undertaken by a new Independent Authority with staff combining scientific expertise and administrative experience, along the lines of other European institutions (such as the Law Commission in Britain).
Compliance with the legislative order by the Administration and the avoidance of regulations by circulars that change the purpose and spirit of the law must become a matter of course.
19. State-church: separation benefits both
Potami b.Respects the Orthodox Church, but the state is a different, independent institution.
The idea of separating the church and religious ritual from the secular.xc; state functions has matured.
This separation will be consensual, no-win, no-lose, since it aims at the better functioning of both institutions.
The disengagement ofc? Orthodoxc? Churchc? from the embrace of the statec?, will have positive results for it.
It is imperative for the Church to be able to respond to the demands of the times.
20. Broadcasting services
The country's radio and television stations have been operating since 1987 under temporary, "presidential" and "prefectural" arrangements. "licensed".
They are essentially operating in a regime of illegality.
All the "Attempts" made to bring about elementary order failed.
The Holomy.xlia of the Council of thec? In 201 O, the Council of State ruled that the present regime is contrary to the fundamental constitutional principles of the State. The constitutional principle of the State of Law, the protection of human dignity and the constitutional principle of equality.
Potami calls for the announcement of an international tender for a seven-year licence for the use of frequencies with self-commitment and control of compliance with journalistic ethics.
With transparency, clarity and economic benefit for the public
21. Public advertising expenditure
It is necessary to oblige all state agencies and supervised bodies, ministries, municipalities, regions, municipalities and inter-municipalities.Foreign businesses and all those who distribute advertising funds from State and Community resources must not only publish their advertising expenditure on Transparency, in total and by medium, but must also document the choice of specific foreign media on the basis of the objective of each individual communication campaign.
All over the country there are parasitic publications and broadcasting stations that siphon off a large part of the public's advertising expenditure.
They have zero readership or ratings, but they have a strong grant, and owners with a strong hold on power.
22. Quality. public service broadcasting
Public service broadcasting is essential in a democracy because it is a tool for information and education open and accessible to all, a
public organisation that can take risks where the laws of the market are prohibitive for a commercial enterprise and emerge victorious.
In our country, institutional reform is necessary. Public? PublicBroadcasting,
which will shield it from any interference from government, party or economic circles.
Only then will it be able to work impartially and for the benefit of the people.
The authoritarian way of closing the door. ERT and the government's refusal to set the institutional framework that would make NEPIT independent, show that the aim was to drive out "others" and accommodate "our own people" without cutting the umbilical cord of the government of the day.The Commission's refusal with the party-dominated - in fact, even today - Broadcasting.
23. Justice should be blind. not slow
Long delays in the administration of justice are a serious disincentive to invest in the country.
The number of pending cases exceeds 1,000,000, only in the criminal courts.
Yet we have 30 judges per 100,000 inhabitants, while France has 12 and Italy 11.
But we lag behind in computerisation and electronic document handling.
The courts' computerisation programme was only launched in 2012 and has not been completed.
The completion of the project is urgent, as is the administrative reorganisation of the courts.
Strengthening the staff with qualified personnel will contribute significantly to the proper functioning of the courts and thec; Justicec;.
It is necessary to establish a special internal service for the judiciary, independent of political interference.
Bribery of a judge should always be a felony and always punishable by imprisonment without right of redemption.
The evaluation of the judiciary and judges cannot be a matter for the judiciary alone.
Greek citizens and the institutions they represent must be involved in the evaluation of the judiciary and judges either through judicial councils or through the parliament.
24. Out-of-court settlement and acceleration
Alternative methods of dispute resolution in commercial and civil litigation should be encouraged by providing incentives to lawyers and litigants.
Thus, in parallel with the completion of computerisation and the institutionalisation of the use of electronic document handling, the Courts will be decongested.
Today, the admission of a commercial or civil case entails its adjudication in the first instance in one day, compared to what was the O.
The grouping of cases as well as the expansion and strengthening of the "Pilot Trial" which allows for the grouping of cases and their rapid adjudication, are measures that contribute to decongestion.
25. Civil partnership for all
With regard to the respect of the rights of same-sex couples, Potami clearly argues that the country must fully harmonize with the practices of the Western world. Europe and the relevant decisions of Western Europe. European decisions. Union.
That is why we want the recognition for all couples, regardless of gender, of the right to a civil partnership that covers all parties in matters of insurance, inheritance, legal recognition, etc.
The extension of this right to same-sex couples does not imply any change in the rights and obligations of heterosexual couples.
26. Human rights
Compliance withc; European? Convention on Human Rights is non-negotiable.
Democracy ceases to be a democracy if it places limits on freedom of speech and expression.
The boundaries are set in the act. As tolerant as we must be of the expression of speech, so strict must we be of the illegal act.
The country is lagging desperately behind in ensuring equal opportunities and rights for people with disabilities or chronic illnesses.
Potami considers it urgent to facilitate accessibility and accessibility to transport, the natural environment and every sector of human activity for these people.
We want equal opportunities for independent living, employment, education and housing, combating indifference, prejudice and violation of patients' rights.
Moral pluralism is a basic principle for modern democracy.
The State must organise an information campaign to combat all kinds of discrimination, social, racial, sexual orientation, gender identity, etc., which offend our culture.
On contemporary ethical issues such as euthanasia - passive and active - and the cremation of the dead, we must follow European practice.
27. Education
The purpose of education is the cultivation of ethics and critical perception.
It is not the memorization and regurgitation of the inherited knowledge.
As a state and society, instead of spending energy, effort and wealth to raise the average citizen's average, we wasted energy, effort and wealth to bring it down.
Potami supports this reversal of the trend.
To appoint a deputy minister? Education; for a term of office.
Strengthen the role of independent authorities in the decision-making process.
The Institute of Educationalc; Politicsc; to be staffed meritocratically, not partisan, and to have a decisive say in the shaping of curricula.
28. Pre-school education
Substantial reforms in education do not start at the universities. They begin in primary schools and kindergartens.
The state must emphasise early childhood education.
Kindergartens are the first centres of socialisation and skill development for children.
Unified Preschool education of children agec; 0-6 years old with open enrolment for children of all families without exception.
Operation on the basis of a uniform pedagogical programme, according to the developmental needs of the infants.
29. Teachers and education
Disengagementc; of the processes of promotionc; and evaluationc; of educational staff and selectionc; of administrative staff and evaluators from the partyc; apparatusc;.
Incentivising teachers/teachers through evaluation.
Right to anonymousc; evaluationc; and byc; student.X;.
Emphasis on school management.
Support for relevant postgraduate programmes and training for staff preparing for school principals, school counsellors or assessors. Appointment of school principals based on certified merit-based qualifications rather than yearbook.
Frequent training of all teachers using e-learning techniques;.
Identification and promotion of best practices.
Widening the margins of autonomyc; inc; teacherc;.
30. Open schools, open minds
Release of the Lyceum from the system of admission to higher education.
Establishment of a National Baccalaureate and replacement of the Panhellenic examinations with knowledge and skills tests based on international standards.
This will reward students' critical faculties and the level of basic knowledge they acquire throughout high school, rather than specialised, meaningless, technical knowledge and narrow memorisation as is the case today.
Further expansion of the institution of model experimental schools throughout the country.
broadening the curriculum and strengthening courses covering broader education issues (sex education, healthy eating, civic education, etc.).
Psychological support for students at all levels.
Upgrading technological and vocational education and training. Reform of the curricula in vocational lyceums (EPAL) and linking the baccalaureate with corresponding professional qualifications.
Formulation of National Learning Standardsc;. Every student, parent and teacher has the right to know the level of knowledge and skills that students know and can have, completed in every grade.
Adoption of international standards for certificates of competence in foreign languages, computer skills, etc. by schools in secondary education.
Improving and upgrading the systemc? Specialisedc? Educationc:; to widenc; accessc; to education and ensurec; equalityc; of opportunity for pupils with differentc; typesc; of disabilityc; and/or special educational needs.
Schools with the right to self-determination and management of resources - state and non-state.
31. Autonomous HEIs
T he self-evident measure of the 1 O base, i.e. the rule that no one is admitted to higher education unless they have an average above the base has recently been abolished. "class measure",.
Its reintroduction is imperative, especially as far as the universities are concerned.
When we have 50,000 Greek students abroad, it is unthinkable that non-state universities should be banned by constitutional provision.
It is necessary the possibility of establishingc; non-state non-profit universities, which are subject to the control ofc; Authority? Insurance and Accreditation of thec? Qualityc? in Higher Education, and accredited, asc? all higher education institutions.
The autonomy of the public University should not be left to words.
We should be able at some point to get to the point where each department decides on the admission criteria of its candidate students and the number of its admissions.
To provide incentives for the activation of English-language programmes, especially at postgraduate level, to attract foreign students.
In the process of evaluating the universities, the graduates of the universities should also participate.
Possibility of student mobility between Departments and Faculties up to the 2nd year of studies.
Ensuring thec; smoothc; functioningc; of the institutions with its legal compositionc;.
Enabling electronic voting and consultationc; in all bodies (including student bodies) to maximise participation and representation.
The university property to be professionally managed through the designated legal entities.
Effective accountability, annual reporting and publication of financial statements are required to promote transparency.
32. Universities and entrepreneurship
Encourage mutually beneficial linkages between universities and production, which in developed countries are drivers of growth.
Strengthening innovation and entrepreneurship centres in universities, as well as career offices.
Creating incentives for universities to provide space for free hosting of start-ups (for 2-4 years), in which students will have a majority shareholding of more than 66%.
33. Social protection for all
Extend the duration of the regular unemployment benefit from 12 to 24 months, until the unemployment rate is limited to the European average.
Increase the number of beneficiaries and rationalise the criteria for beneficiaries.
Extension of the long-term unemployment benefit to all unemployed people living in families with an income below the poverty line, without any other conditions.
Establishment of a housing allowance with income criteria in place of the OEK rent allowance abolished in 201 O.
Consolidation and rationalisation of the AM and EA benefits
Assimilation of the lessons learned from the pilot phase of the minimum guaranteed income and nationwide application of its revised form.
Without shelter, health care, food, education for economic reasons.
Lunch in schools for primary school students.
Use of European funds for pre-school education, so that no child is left out of nursery schools.
To give vouchers to families with children aged 2-5 years old that can be redeemed for a certificate of a foreign day care centre.
Provide interest-free student loans to students who have a documented need.
Loans start to be repaid 2-3 years after the normal study period with a repayment period of 20 years.
Rehabilitation and modernisation of the programme; 'Help at Home' programme to support elderly foreigners living alone
Free access to a basic package of health services for poor, unemployed, elderly foreigners and the chronically ill.
Abolish the constant re-examinations of patients with incurable diseases, who are currently constantly re-examined to establish the obvious, i.e. that their problem remains
We support work. All European and national funding for the relief and reintegration of the unemployed should go towards actions that integrate the unemployed, even temporarily, into employment.
34. Not a single Greek without health care
Our main proposal concerns the establishment of a National Bank. National Insurance? Health, with universal coverage for the basic 'Package' of EOPYY services.
The aim is that in 4 years, the NHS will be able to be funded from general taxation with a commensurate reduction in employer and employee contributions and will be able to provide free access to the country's permanent residents and to everyone else for emergencies.
For vulnerable social groups, access to the basic package of health services will be free of charge from the outset.
We propose the introduction of an institutional limit for total and public health expenditure as a percentage of GDP.
The targetc; mac; is the e.g. foreignc; termc; of the countries of thec; EU COUNTRIES.
Primary care will be interconnected with hospital care, with a referral systemc; from the former to the latter and specific institutionalisation ofc; Emergency care? Fresh?.
35. Health insurance card
The citizen's transaction with thec; structurec; thec; Health; will be done exclusively through an electronic card.
The citizen is charged only for the part of the services he/she chooses from the basic package and the charge will be treated on the basis of his/her income, by submitting the annual tax return.
36. Redesign of the "hospital map of the country"
There is an urgent need to plan the 'hospital map of the country' for the next 20 years.
It is absurd to have 2,000 clinics in almost 130 hospitals. It is equally absurd to have three and four small hospitals in a county, but 80% of the cases leave and go to university hospitals in other areas.
To merge, where possible, the dispersed structures; Create fewer, stronger and more autonomous structures that can manage a full patient population and drastically reduce the number of referrals to the country's central hospitals.
37. Staffing of hospitals
Hospital staffing should focus on the scientific constitution of doctors and the adequacy of nursing staff.
The selection of hospital governors will be made through an open competition in full; "partisan", "colourless", "colourless".
Providing financial incentives for nurses to cover the neglected areas of the country, and taking into account seasonal needs.
38. Ending health waste
In order to control the world, primary and secondary care should be linked with a referral and follow-up system to stop unnecessary MRIs and Pap tests in men.
The prescription of medicines and referrals for tests must be controlled according to scientific criteria in order to combat corruption.
A prerequisite for this is the optimisation of the electronic prescribing system and the maintenance of electronic patient records.
The electronic, open and simplified tendering procedures for the supply of materials in the field of the supply of goods and services to the public. Health care, as well as the establishment of strict quality protocols by an independent body, will ensure the rationalisation of expenditure, so that we do not relive the phenomena of waste and corruption.
The Ministry of Health should establish a drug policy with the EOF in charge of quality.
39. Prevention and intervention for the future
The consequences of the economic crisis are already reflected in the health of citizens and the increase in the incidence of diseases such as mental illness and obesity.
The indications are not encouraging for the coming years.
Is there an urgent need for an Emergency Programme? Prevention and Intervention Programme for the next three years, with a preventive examination and plan to address the rising "wave of morbidity",.
40. Entrepreneurship and innovation
To overcome the anchoring syndromes that consider entrepreneurship synonymous with speculation.
Potami seeks to create incentives for the growth of businesses.
The objectivec; is to significantly increase the average number of employees and turnover per enterprise.
Modernization of the institution of patenting and patent rights
Decisive promotion of youth entrepreneurship, with the drastic simplification of bureaucratic burdens, such as the zeroing of the cost of setting up and maintaining a new business and the zeroing of VAT for the first three years of operation and for annual revenues up to €50,000.
41. Exports
In our country, the trade balance has been negative for decades.
We have the fewest exports throughout Europe.
In 2008 it was 24% of GDP. Today it's 29%, not because they went up, but because other incomes went down.
The target should be to reach 40% of exports in the coming years. GDP, which will grow.
We must give priority to producing products that are internationally marketable.
To make it a national objective to create new jobs in this sector, in existing and new businesses.
We need to remove the dozen bureaucratic obstacles, and make the VAT refund automatic, provide guarantees for exports and incentives for innovative export-oriented businesses.
Make it a national objective to create 500,000 new jobs in this sector (in existing and new enterprises) within the next five years.
42. New forms of social enterprises
Social enterprises are a useful tool for business development and reducing unemployment, a new, collective model.
Social enterprises, depending on their scope and potential, need to become more relevant in the new business landscape of the country.
43. Self-management of closing businesses
The state should encourage self-management initiatives for businesses that close due to the crisis.
Should the employees try to continue the operation of thec?.
Cooperativism, solidarity, self-organisation have characterised the international workers' movement from the very beginning.
These same features are familiar to the Greek tradition not only from the distant past, but also from the cooperative society in the Vineyards and the communitarianism of the Middle Ages. such movements are not utopian.
They require, however, boldness on the part of the workers and support on the part of the politicians.
44. Modern, alternative forms of financing entrepreneurship
We need an institutional framework that promotes alternative forms of financing.
These include direct lending, which allows businesses to find financing through bilateral negotiations with a specialised market operator without bank intermediation, and
equity finance, whereby small investors join together via a digital platform to channel savings to entrepreneurs.
For places like Greece with a large percentage of companies with less than five employees, what they are trying to do promises much more than other sources.
45. Bankruptcy code
Business failure should not be criminalised and stigmatised.
Failure is a normal part of the process and offers useful lessons.
The exception is where there is fraud or gross negligence.
Audit authorities should insist on the clear separation of corporate and personal property and prosecute the owner of a business who personally enriches the company.
Abolition of the unconditional priority repayment of debts to the State by bankrupt companies.
This causes distortions and affects the legitimate interests of all other creditors: employees, suppliers, banks.
Creditors must be able to collect proportionately and equitably, on an equal basis of what they are entitled to and what they are securing.
This largely protects the worker, but also the rest of the market, and gives additional life to the business.
46. Fighting undeclared and black labour
Undeclared work can only be tackled through a combination of repression and incentives, such as reducing the burden of compliance with the law.
The non-wage labour costs should be reduced and the social security contributions, which are still extremely high, should be reduced.
The reduction will have a positive effect on competitiveness, employment, the reduction of undeclared work and the productivity of small businesses.
NSRF funds for training and temporary employment programmes should only be spent on real work and practical training.
No one gains from virtual work in ministry and municipal offices, nor from theoretical seminars.
The paths are two: either municipalities design social and infrastructure repair programmes, and employ young people there, or training should be designed by employers, include internships and be funded on a priority basis.
Checks on undeclared work must be intensive and continuous, using all technological means and continuous sampling.
The contribution of the trade union movement in tackling black labour can be great and should be institutionalised.
47. Targeted public investment
Increase public investment in large and small projects.
They will directly boost employment
and are the only type of public expenditure that can find additional funding from abroad.
Public investment should be prioritised towards projects that enhance production (e.g. irrigation projects in regions with export-oriented crops), transit (e.g. railways, port syndicates), and technological infrastructure (e.g. broadband networks).
Establishment of the public-private partnership (PPP) model as a key tool for the creation and operation of the necessary investments in public infrastructure.
Ensuring that the public sector defines the intervention and controls its proper implementation, while the private sector implements it. The contractor's revenues are based on quantitative data on the actual extent of the infrastructure provided to the end user.
48. Yes to mining, yes to the environment
There are 1,500 mines, quarries and mines in Greece.
We cannot afford to ignore the economic benefits of exploiting mineral wealth, as long as it is done with respect for the environment and local communities, in accordance with international standards.
We propose the adoption of a law on the consultation process with local communities, the introduction of contributory benefits and the fair allocation of related rents.
Important is the role of the? Local? Local government in creating synergies between investors and local society.
Aim to ensure compliance with environmental standards and maximise benefits for residents and the region through social and corporate responsibility actions and spin-off investments and sponsorships.
Compilation of a national and local spatial plan with provision for mining activities and for alternative methods of land reuse.
Mapping in a common electronic database of the data on mineral deposits and protected areas.
Filing of the new quarrying bill which has been pending for eleven years.
- Codification and screening of the environmental impact assessment procedure while simplifying the process of preparing environmental impact assessments. Διαδικασίας
There is a need to strengthen the Mining Inspectorates, which are understaffed and as a result no checks are carried out on an activity that is sensitive to the environment and dangerous for the worker.
49. Become the bastion and cellar of Europe
Potami will make development in the agricultural sector one of the key pillars of the change in the country's production model.
The aim is to add value to products with comparative advantages such as fruit and vegetables, oil and wine, to increase the quality of livestock production and to increase the value added of products.
The support that the farmer should continue to receive should be given in a way that will have a multiplier effect:
Encourage collective entrepreneurship that adds value to the product at all stages, from its production and processing to its placing on the market.
With a focus on quality and the environment.
The competitiveness of the sector will only be achieved through strong collective organisations, organised on a sectoral basis, which will intervene at all stages from production to the placing of the final product on the market.
To do this, it requires the institutional intervention of the statec;;.
At the same time it is necessary to organise all farmers into strong and flexible organisations. Groups? Producer groups. Groups structured for the management of similar products, with strong management and with close and stable links to applied agricultural research and innovation.
The state "umbrella" needs to be extended to a single programme to promote Greek products on the market, as huge sums are spent in a piecemeal fashion with little result.
In the same logic of supporting collectivism, there should be intervention in reducing production costs through the creation of a strong sectoral agri-food supplier cooperative.
The research, education and technical assistance sectors have been given special attention in the strategic plan, as a single, harmoniously interconnected entity.
Will the reopening of thec? "agricultural applications service", which acts as a hub for two-way and uninterrupted communication between the producer, administration, research and education.
To change the role of agronomists: from being controllers of the public sector to becoming guides of the agricultural production bodies and diagnosing the needs that the state can meet.
From salesmen of agricultural vehicles to become technical advisers to organised producers.
In all of the above, the land reform issue is dominant.
A series of immediate measures to enlarge the census of small and medium-sized farmers can be undertaken such as tax-free transfer, interest-free loans, a ban on partition, taxation of uncultivated agricultural land and long term:; return on the use of pasture land to the farmer with up to.Environmental protection
The objectives for the primary sector are:In relation to agriculture:
1. Achieving sustainable family income;
2. Reducing the volatility of agricultural income; 1.
3. Developing the competitiveness of the sector In
relation to consumers //|1. Ensuring safe and high quality food at fair prices
In relation to society in general //|1. Protecting the natural and political environment
2. Development of employment in rural areas through agricultural and non-agricultural activities
50. Pioneering pan-European fisheries policy
Oysizac controls:; illegal and destructive fishing.
Tackling overfishing and making use of the 'tools' of the 'new' approach. CFP for the sustainable management of marine resources and the establishment of 'fish stock recovery areas', >.
Creation of a Spatial Plan for Fisheries that will establish fishing areas for the various gears in the medium, coastal and recreational fisheries. //| Adaptation of fishing activity based on the sustainability of the various fish stocks.
Upgrading the Greek aquaculture industry through practices that respect the environment and produce good quality products with increased commercial value.
This is the only way to reverse the bankruptcy of the majority of Greek fish farms and ensure their long-term viability;
- Full use of the resources and opportunities offered by the OP Fisheries 2014-2020;
Review of the measure for bank lending guaranteed by the Greek state.
Development of fishing tourism, exploiting the unique comparative advantages of the island and coastal regions of the island; Greecec;.
This reduces fishing effort in overfished areas, offers an alternative income to fishermen, but also a quality tourist product.
Create a Schoolc; Fisheriesc; for the training of Greek fishermen, who make up the largest fishing fleet in thec; Europec?.
51. National Strategic Plan for Tourism
The Potami proposes the drawing up of an instrument; A National Strategic Plan for Tourism with a ten-year implementation period (2015-2025) and two central strategic objectives: the qualitative upgrading of services and products and the extension of the tourist season.
Greece as a natural environment and cultural ark is a great set of unique destinations.
Only this is not enough to get the maximum possible benefits for the country and the economy.
There is a need to promote the tourist product abroad and to strengthen consular authorities to better serve tourists in the country.
The redesign of tourism policy should focus on the quality of services and the diversity of products and destinations on an annual basis and should come from the productive potential of the tourism industry, local government, sector workers' organisations, cooperatives, chambers of commerce and environmental organisations, coordinated by the Ministry of Tourism.
The process should be specific to each region and county.
The extension of the tourist season and winter tourism should be planned over a five-year horizon with an aggressive pricing policy and a target of 1/3 of total annual overnight stays and revenues.
52. Development of quality and thematic tourism
Our main target is the development of quality tourism "of the measure", in contrast to the saturated low-cost mass tourism.
Thematic tourism can exploit the country's considerable strengths.
To promote nautical tourism, we want to create a network of five small and large marinas with uniform specifications, high quality, upgrading the existing marinas and building new ones.
For the promotion of medical tourism we propose the design of an advertising campaign that will promote the high expertise of Greek doctors, the high quality of infrastructure and the competitive price of medical services in our country.
For the development of alternative forms of tourism (hiking, climbing, mountaineering, canyoning, cycling, diving, air sports) we propose that a Coordinating Office for Alternative Forms of Tourism be set up, which will be attached to the Ministry of Tourism and will establish specifications for the infrastructure projects necessary for the development of these forms of tourism, will assign the preparation of studies to specialists and will supervise the implementation, maintenance and management of the infrastructure projects.
We support the creation of National Climbing Parks (Kalymnos, Meteora, Laconia) along with extensive networks of marked trails, an activity complementary to climbing.
53. Tourism investments
R country has huge scope for new targeted tourism investments based on i.Xna national spatial planning.
This should include the attraction of high-level international hotel organisations and the organisation of the construction of high-value residential complexes for purchase or long-term lease.
The tourist infrastructure must be thoroughly inventoried.
Illegality, the shadow economy and undeclared work undermine the effort and tackling it is vital.
54. Building an internationally competitive shipping environment
The biggest challenge facing the Greek shipping industry is the design of an integrated national strategy for integrated maritime development, which enhances and coordinates, until now, economic activity through the creation of a maritime cluster.
It brings together businesses, educational institutions and the state in order to develop and strengthen the country's maritime activities.
Slide of the floor: The integration of the computerisation and digitisation of the The computerisation and digitalisation of the DPO of Rloi is imperative.
The tax distortions and loopholes that allow tax avoidance or the appearance of personal assets as corporate assets must be eliminated and removed.
Encourage the partnership of shipyards with universities, port and shipowner organisations in the country in the framework of cooperation to identify and exploit a comparative advantage and its specialisation.
At the same time, investment and tax measures should be put in place to support Greek shipbuilding technology, Greek companies located on the periphery of shipping activity and to encourage start-ups.
Ports are a development engine. We propose the application of the European practice where ports retain their public character but cede their operation to companies through transparent international procedures.
It requires official cooperation and not competition between the Greek ports, with each port specializing in its competitive advantages,
as well as the development of combined transport
and, of course, a stable operating framework, with transparent appointment of the Port Authorities' administrations through a competition and not through the appointment of party officials.
55. Naval training
Design and organisation of an integrated system of secondary and tertiary maritime education (for officers and crews), based on current and future developments in the maritime market and modern technology.
Development of an integrated system of maritime studies (for office staff) with interconnection of all Maritime University Departments
and its integration in the supervision and planning of a central body which will be responsible for the certification, control and evaluation of administrative, financial and educational functions.
Necessary and obvious; is the interconnection and cooperation of the two systems mentioned above.
Greek academic institutions with schools of maritime interest (NTUA, University of Piraeus, University of Aegean) should be key partners in this effort, with emphasis on specialized postgraduate programmes in subjects directly related to the shipping sector (maritime law, maritime technology, MBA with emphasis on shipping, maritime finance, logistics, etc.).
Promotion of the maritime profession, the possibilities and opportunities that it offers Design for the entry of young Greeks into the maritime profession, in order to replace the previous generation which is gradually leaving, as they are gradually leaving.
today the inflow is low despite high unemployment.
Operation of non-state higher maritime schools with certified foreign staff, a modern curriculum and an excellent infrastructure,
in order to meet the needs of the Greek shipping industry in terms of human resources and, gradually, to make Greek maritime schools an international attraction.
56. Coastal shippingRestructuring of the coastal shipping network in the logic of creating hub ports and routes to/from smaller islands, aiming at permanent connectivity while re-evaluating state aid to the inland transport system.
and exploring the financing of the transport project with public and private resources.
Assignment of routes and partial financing of popular-based shipping cooperatives; with the participation of the local government for the service of island clusters,
with a parallel redesign of the coastal shipping lines that will take into account the economic viability and the service of island residents throughout the year.
We should learn from what we have learned in practice, but also from the bad examples of the past.
Organisation of a competitive environmentc; through more attractive, multiannual contracts with the introduction of intermediate clauses on non-performance and specific quality standards.
Subject to flexible cooperation between shipping companies, so as to achieve higher occupancy, more access to ports, reduction of pollution and overall cost reduction, and therefore a higher probability of viability.
Application of a uniform VAT for passengers and freight, as is the case in tourism.
57. Taxation-tax evasion. Legality is more advantageous than illegality.
Reducing taxation is a necessary development policy.
The targetc; is the single tax scale for all incomes.
The concept of "proven taxpayer" is established.
This is a self-employed person or a sole proprietorship, who, after an audit, is shown to be practically honest and consistent with his/her tax and insurance obligations.
This taxpayer is treated preferentially (reduced rate, tax credit, tax credit, tax relief, etc.) in comparison with other taxpayers.
The streamlinedc; ENFIA should be passed on as revenue to local government and become its main resource.
The local government has a great opportunity to determine the fairest distribution of burdens, depending on the type of property.
R gradual further reduction of social security contributions must precede any tax relief.
This will also have a positive impact on reducing uninsured work.
A single centre for the collection of insurance contributions from all funds.
Single issue of insurance and tax information.
One nationwide DIO for those whoc; have income only from wagesuc; and pensionsc; with multiple servicec; options via telephonec; servicec; and KER.
This would free up human and material resources for more important categories of people.
The most effective wayc? to combatc? tax evasionc? is continuousc? targetedc? but also randomc? controlc? of money flows.
Every legally trader:; must be able to justify with legal documents important paid and received.
The control of tax obligations and the control of the tax burden should apply to everyone, regardless of their size.
Tax evasion cannot be a "Business Surplus" for any citizen or entrepreneur.
58. The State and its obligations
Often a citizen benefits from the State, while at the same time the State owes him or her Our recommendation is that the citizen should have full protection, not paying his or her debt to the State, up to the amount owed to him or her It is robbery for the citizen to pay interest when he or she owes, while the State pays interest-free interest from two or three years.
The public sector must regain the lost trust of taxpayers.
This is the first step in the fight against tax evasion.
Should the State Revenue Service and the General Secretariat of Revenue be decoupled from the central state?.
They should be subject to an independent authority, so that they cease to serve their own political purposes.
59. Reduction of social security contributions
Contributions are reduced, recruitment is encouraged, black labour becomes unprofitable, small and medium-sized enterprises, which are the backbone of the Greek economy, are supported.
High insurance contributions do not necessarily mean more income for the funds.
The emphasis must shift to the collection of contributions, as well as to its sound management.
The gradual further reduction of social security contributions must precede any tax relief, with immediate priority given to the
self-employed, who will pay on the basis of their incomes rather than per capita contributions.
Procedures can be simplified and bureaucracy kept to a minimum: a single centre for the collection of all insurance contributions from all funds.
60. Social security
The changes in the social security system require honesty and consensus from the political system and the trade unions.
The solution must have a 20-year perspectivec;.
Chronic demagoguery is one of the causes of the present impasse.
Are we in favour of a decision? Single pension system.
We want the same rules for everyone, without privileges and exceptions.
The system should be based on the return of each insured person's pension contributions when he or she retires or becomes incapacitated.
A full contributory proportional pension, financed only by insurance contributions (state, insured persons and employers), without the need to pay a contribution to the pension scheme. 'social resources'.
Paid contributory supplementary funded by the employer and the employee.
Targeted reduction of social security contributions with a direct start from the self-employed who have to pay based on their incomes, not on per capita contributions.
Fight undeclared, uninsured and unprotected work.
Checks on undeclared work should be intensive and continuous; and make use of all technological means.
The contribution of the trade union movement in tackling black labour can be great and should be institutionalised.
61. Trade unionism for workers, not for parties
Trade union organisations are not just affiliated to, but subject to, the parties.
They do not genuinely represent the working people, but the parties.
These dictate the unions' policy;.
In order to stop this distortion, the trade unions must become independent of the party system.
Only then will they defend the interests of their members and not those of the parties and the union bosses.
Expanding the rights of thec; basec; and cutting the privileges of thec; unionc; topc;.
The financial transactions of the unions must be transparent, open to any scrutiny.
In order to create representative unions in as many companies as possible, measures and counter-measures are needed at the employers' premises and protection for trade unionists.
The existence of a representative union and a collective agreement is linked to a deduction in the employer's social security contributions.
Appeals against dismissals of trade unionists should be heard quickly, and the labour inspectorate should intensify its control in such cases.
62. Collective agreements on a new basis
Contracts must be re-entered into, at central level, to regulate issues on a national scale, such as the continuous training of workers, changes in the dismissal regime, the level of severance pay, unemployment insurance.
For companies with more than fifty employees, the main form of collective bargaining is the enterprise agreements with genuinely representative unions.
These will take precedence over sectoral and interprofessional ones.
Thus, the more productive firms can give more, those that are expanding can do more long-term planning, while the less productive ones can survive thanks to inexpensive contributions.
Establish a single contract, where the protection of the worker increases linearly with the length of employment, and there is no distinction between permanent and indefinite contracts.
63. Towards a sustainable public debt
The notion of unilateral debt regulation is unrealistic.
Negotiations with the lender must be conducted on a realistic and mutually acceptable basis.
In this negotiation the country will advance with self-confidence and with its own patriotic programme of changes and a new orientation of the economy.
In this negotiation, the issue of the exclusion from the PSI of the bonds held by the European Central Bank that were irregularly excluded from the haircut may also be raised.
We are seeking to improve the quality of debt so that it is truly serviceable and does not undermine the country's efforts to move to a stable growth path.
That's the view of mac; it's in the country's interest.
Debt restructuring with a long extension of maturities, lower interest rates, settlement of short-term IMF claims, must include a sufficient period of debt service relief.
Only then will the economy and society have the capacity and the resources to regroup.
Any new lending to the country after the settlement of the debt must be aimed either at reducing it on more favourable terms or at public investment with obvious favourable effects on GDP and employment.
64. Fiscal responsibility must be legislated
In order not to put the country back in the dire position it is in today, we propose the adoption of a Fiscal Responsibility Law, along the lines of the Lula Law in Brazil, with a ceiling on the percentage of GDP beyond which foreign borrowing is prohibited, except for the refinancing of the old one.
To increase the ωc limit; as a percentage of GDP would need an increased 2/3 parliamentary majority.
Each borrowing must be accompanied by a corresponding use of money study.
Borrowing is prohibited for "general State requirements" without being specified.
The course ofc; usec; of the borrowing money by semester.
Adoption of a "golden rule", which prohibits net borrowing from exceeding the country's investment programme.
The procedure for adopting the budget is divided into two parts: First the general characteristics, such as revenue, expenditure and borrowing, are approved
and then the allocation is made
. Exceptions are made for targeted actions to address social needs, such as child poverty and high unemployment, the elimination of which benefits social cohesion and economic growth in the long term.
65. The solution for private debt
The management of corporate debt should be handled by an independent intermediary body involving banks, the State, private individuals and possibly the ECB
This body should also include the liquidation of the "bad banks" (Proton, Agrotiki, etc.).
This body will better safeguard the public interest, accelerating the solution and the rapid shift to healthy entrepreneurship.
A proper solution to domestic debt requires an immediate amendment of the bankruptcy code, which currently gives the State absolute priority to the sale of bankruptcy property or to the settlement of debts.
The joint agreement of the creditors will bring revenue to the public coffers.
The regulation of business debts must be such as to facilitate economic recovery and recovery, without signalling a regime. "unethical reward" in relation to what the company has been doing before.
The over-indebted large companies that could be viable should be rescued by capitalising their debts to banks and the state, rehabilitated and re-privatised.
Over-indebted companies that are not viable should be liquidated within a reasonable period of time and with transparent procedures.
There must be a definitive, coherent package of measures to facilitate small businesses and professionals for their total debtors (loans, public sector, funds), including long-term repayment arrangements and exemption from additional charges.
With regard to non-performing mortgages, first home or a specific area or value, our position can be summarised as follows: 'No one loses the house they own, but no one is spared the house they owe'.
Small personal loans to households should be treated in a similar way.
66. Environment and development
The development of environmental information, education and awareness programmes, together with systematic dialogue and participatory processes, will mitigate the social acceptance problems faced by many development proposals.
It will also help social cohesion by reducing anti-environmental or anti-social behaviour
67. Alternative forms of energy
Is an energy shift to a zero-emission electricity system based on foreign electricity necessary? Renewable? Sources? Energy and the rational use of energy.
The energy sector can be a key growth lever for exiting the crisis.
The energy strategy is essential both for energy sufficiency and for tackling climate change.
The international environmental obligations and the objectives that the country has to meet require the decisive promotion of renewable energy sources, especially wind farms, which are the most mature technology, and the suspension of the development of new lignite plants.
68. What do we do with the waste?
Sustainable waste management is a priority, not only for reducing pollution and protecting public health, but also as a dynamic part of the economy, contributing to increasing employment and reducing the use of natural resources.
The stages are given: prevention programmes to avoid waste generation, generalisation of recycling and composting (or anaerobic treatment) with sorting at source, effective collection of recyclable materials and residues, drastic reduction of landfill and mechanical treatment.
For Greece in particular, the priority is the definitive elimination and rehabilitation of uncontrolled waste disposal sites.
Social participation is necessary and can be significantly enhanced through social entrepreneurship.
The contribution of the private sector in the waste management chain can be formally important, especially for the efficient separate collection and recycling of useful materials.
A change of policy is required, in accordance with European legislation, with a decisive promotion of waste recovery and the gradual abandonment of costly and dead-end directions, such as engineering plants and large landfill sites.
Thanks to technology, there are solutions, such as the thermal utilisation of waste for energy production.
Modern recovery plants are nothing like landfills or landfills.
On the contrary, some in Europe are a source of pride for cities that have been lucky or clever enough to host them, such as Vienna.
However, in order to make them useful and acceptable, the waste is first sorted at source.
The contribution ofc? Localc? Self-governmentc; with the support of centralc; institutionsc; (FODSA, Region, Ministry of Environment and Development) is of keyc; importancec;.
Municipalities can implement prevention and recycling programmes with sorting at source, install brown bins for the separate collection of clean organic materials, build composting units and "Green Points" for the separate collection of useful materials.
At the regional level we propose the construction of the required centralised waste treatment plants (mechanical/biological treatment) in the medium term, without undermining recycling and composting with source separation, in conditions that protect the public interest.
Particularly useful can be the implementation of 'Pay as you throw' schemes to ensure fair charging of waste producers, households and businesses.
69. Water resources
The country suffers from water scarcity and waterlogging despite having sufficient water resources.
The formulation of a national strategy for the rational and sustainable management of the water resources of the country is required. Greecec;.
It is necessary to take measures for the universal replacement of open channels with closed conduit networks and improved irrigation systemsc; lowc; pressurec;.
70. Cities to live in
We tend to think of "our own space" only as our home, office, car, etc.;.
The public space of cities, where we have a huge need for green and open spaces, is not considered our own.
We need to redefine our relationship with public space and decide that we want cities with a sustainable urban environment.
Promoting the use of the mass media can contribute to this. The use of publictransport and cycling (with appropriate training and infrastructure)
as well as the creation of open spaces resulting from the use of public land.
A city with a sustainable urban environment means improving the quality of life for all residents, and contributing to social cohesion and proper functioning, which are prerequisites for economic growth.
71. Arbitrary buildings are killing the place
The declaration of protected natural and cultural landscapes with appropriate protection and tourist exploitation is in the direction of the preservation and valorisation of the Greek landscape.
There is an immediate need for a coherent housing policy for holiday homes, the dispersion of which degrades the landscape.
Small islands offer an opportunity to develop sustainability programmes and
promote related projects in the fields of energy, waste, water, traditional buildings and activities, land use and, of course, landscape.
Not to repeat any operation of legalization of arbitrary buildings and to demolish, by example, challenging arbitrary construction in coastal and mountainous areas.
72.Forests.nationalfoundation and parks
It is necessary to develop a national forestry strategy for the rational management and exploitation of forest resources of the country. Greecec; in accordance with the principle ofc? Sustainabilityc;,
with parallel reorganization, staffing, financing of forestry services.
There is an urgent need to accelerate the completion of the forest maps and the forest cadastre, as required by the current legislative framework.
The declaration of National Parks and National Parks, in many cases, creates nothing but loss-making management.
If the protection of these areas of exceptional beauty is not addressed with seriousness and plan, in a few years we will mourn the absence of everything and its poor visitation, instead of being proud of the special landscape and its utilization with the beginning of its development. sustainable development.
73. Policy on culture
We are establishing a new Ministry of Culture that will listen to the old one but will interact with the new one, highlighting contemporary ideas, trends and problems of culture.
The policy of the new Ministry of Culture should aim at quality of life, the preservation and promotion of the artistic heritage and contemporary artistic production, the protection and promotion of art in all its forms, as well as access to it for all.
Culture policy should be directly linked to education.
There is no culture without education, just as there is no education without culture.
The lifelong education of citizens passes through culture and its direct derivative, art.
Culture policy can and should enhance tourism and economic development and enhance the image of thec? Greece's image in the world.
74. Independent Arts Council
It is proposed to establish an independent Arts Council composed of personalities from the fields of education, art and culture.
It will contribute to the formulation of cultural policy.Apart from the appointment of artistic directors in institutions and organisations, after an evaluation of the submitted programmes by the candidate, it will propose the creation of new bodies where it deems necessary or the abolition of others.
It will evaluate the proposals of any private body applying for public support and help to encourage cultural dialogue within and outside the country.
Officially, it will act as a vehicle for the ongoing evaluation of state cultural organisations.
75. Elimination of partisanship in artistic institutions
Complete decoupling of each artistic organisation from the parties.
Employees and artistic directors in the institutions should be selected on purely meritocratic criteria and not on party criteria.
The proposed arts council will play a decisive role in the selection of directors.
We certainly support strong artistic directors who can use their artistic personality to shape the distinct identity of the organisation they run, but they should be under constant evaluation.
Recall will be a possibility in case of repeated or continued ineffectiveness.
76. Transformation of the DHTs into small and flexible national theatres.
For a long time now, the D.I.P.T.S. have been underappreciated.
One of the most important institutions of cultural entertainment has fallen into complete disrepute.
Municipal rulers and local producers used the D.R.R.T.E.T.E. for the catering of day-trippers.
The fewest exceptions confirm the rule.
We propose the transformation of the D.P.P.Theatres into flexible national theatres with funding from the Ministry of Culture and, of course, self-financing from tickets and sponsorships.
The evaluation ofc; will be done by the arts council.
Its aim will be the continuous cultivation of the public through theatrical performances and other artistic events of high quality.
The promotion and presentation of his work both locally and at a wider level, as well as the pursuit of his presence at festivals abroad.
A basic condition for its operation will be the presentation of at least one of its performances in the other national theatres.
In this way the numberc; of performances presented in each of them will be multiplied, with the intellectual gainc; of the audience.
77. Establishment of a Higher School of Theatre, Film and Dance in the framework of
of the Athens School of Fine Arts.
It is a school of purely artistic education, like the School of Fine Arts.
Greece lags behind other European countries in terms of pure artistic education in theatre, cinema and dance.
In the context of this school, a school of theatre directing will also be established, which is a constant request of theatre directors.
Art as a whole consolidates and develops democracy.
Art is the undeniable vehicle of culture.
Young artists must have a comprehensive education so that they can be trained. in order to serve their high calling in the best possible way.
The country has the capacity to create a high level of technical and technical expertise.
78. Festivals and cultural extroversion.
Creation of an international festival of ancient drama in Epidaurus, under the Hellenic Festival SA. Greek and foreign performances of ancient drama, symposia and conferences on ancient drama, workshops for actors and directors can make Epidaurus, in the summer month, an international centre.
In this sense, the Arts Council will host other thematic international festivals that will encourage extroversion and help promote and upgrade tourism, with direct benefits for the economy.
Particular emphasis should be given to the area of cooperation with foreign institutions, the promotion of exhibitions, performances, literary and artistic works from abroad, as well as the creation of an institutional framework that will encourage the production of films and other artistic projects in the country by both Greeks and foreigners.
Culture must be integrated into the country's investment policy.
Incentives must be given to revive the institution of sponsorship.
Sponsors can play a key role in the financial support of major cultural events.
79. Linking culture and education.
We want a foreign civilization that is foreign with the education and education of the citizen.
In a developed society, education must emphasize the aesthetic education of the individual.
A sensitive at the level of the aesthetic polity is a potential creator of a better world.
The protection of nature and animals, the defence of the rules of coexistence and the improvement of urban development are the main objectives of
education, which goes hand in hand with aesthetics and culture.
Art contributes to children's learning and development, to their understanding of the world, history, tradition and diversity, to the encouragement of critical thinking, personal expression, creativity and innovation.
Potami supports that access to art and knowledge is an inalienable right of every child.
For this reason we propose that the educational programme at all levels be enriched with appropriate cultural experiences through partnerships between educational and cultural institutions.
We seek the support and assistance of cultural institutions that wish to develop programmes specifically for children and young people;.
80. Sport for all
Sport is a basic social good that concerns all ages and all classes in society.
Potami believes that the criterion of a country is not so much the medal table of the Olympic Games, but the percentage of its population that is more or less systematically involved in sport.
However, high sport and society's engagement with sport are two interconnected vessels that feed off each other.
However, since the "PPA" is specific, there must be a proper proportion in the allocation of resources.
Every euro that goes to sports should be worthwhile and not end up in clubs sealed, useless, installed or "inflated" administrative costs.
Every euro we spend on sport is a long-term investment, not an expense.
The aim of society should be to increase the amount of sport we do in relation to the amount we "consume".
Setting a maximum number of terms in the presidency of sports federations (two or a maximum of three terms).
Legalization, accountability of federations, disengagement from party dependency.
Evaluation and support of healthy clubs that offer sporting activities and are the essential cells of Greek sport.
Fundingc; with objective, measurable and verifiable criteria. Incentives to merge neighbouring clubs.
To turn our attention to the exploitation of sports tourism, which has great potential for growth in Greece
81. Europe is our home.
The grand vision of European integration must be passed through a purposefully federal direction, respecting - and emanating from - the autonomy of each country.
It cannot be aimed at the despotism of a kenfic, uncontrolled elite.
We cede some of our rights to make us all equal and cumulatively stronger We do not cede them to empower third parties.
Europe needs less bureaucracy, more democracy, fair justice and institutionalised citizen participation in decision-making centres.
The stake for Greece is the qualitative upgrading of its participation in the European Union.
We have a responsibility and obligation to change the direction of the change; EU and strengthenc; the democratization and credibilityc; of its institutionalc;; The Commission is committed to democratisation and the legitimacy of its institutional institutions.
It is neither worth nor useful to play the role of a "problematic partner" for the EU. Union.
We want our country to be an active participant in the European dialogue.
It does not reflect the role of a partner confined to its Balkan microcosm.
We are choosing multilateral alliances with all Member States and democratic political power, to promote a common goal and a united front, without paralysis and exclusion.
We see Europe as a field of open, continuous negotiation, with the object of forward-looking compromise in order to achieve common goals.
Through this alliance and compromise we will seek to defend the specific priorities of our country.
We are neither naive nor blackmailed. //|European membership is a weapon and an asset for our position on the international political scene in a world of unlimited trade, cooperation and struggle of interests.
82. Realistic foreign policy
Modern states, when they talk about foreign policy, are thinking of promoting their economic interests abroad.
Its exports, investment, trade and energy security.
The economy is an existential gamble for Greece.
Increasing exports and doing business abroad is a vitally important national issue.
If we lose on the economy, we will lose nationally.
We reject the use of foreign policy for consumption in the domestic political game.
I don't like political games.
We are interested in politics that benefits the country, but...
The name of Skopje is a typical example of politicians who circumvent the national interest for the sake of demagogy.
Today we are struggling to achieve the composite name that was given to us at the time, but we rejected it.
We seek to reform foreign policy.
I am not interested in the role of an insignificant fringe state "brawler".
Can we not bequeath to our children other unresolved national issues?
The economic crisis is enough.
We want to solve the national problems that can be solved, without compromising the national interest, and to hand over a country surrounded by friendly and not hostile states in its borders.
No inexperience; no compassion.
Defending the country's interests with planning, knowledge, knowledge, stability, logic, cooperation and dialogue.
With such a stance we are making the most of the European advantage and securing the active support of our partners.
We propose the upgrading and transformation of the National Council for Foreign Affairs. Policyc; into the National Council for Foreign Affairs and Defence.
The proposed Council will be under the authority of and convened by the Prime Minister at the level of political leaders.
They will have, officially, staff from the Ministry of Defense, the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the Joint Chiefs of Staff. NSA.
Potami proposes the status of the positionc; Permanent Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs.
He/she will be selected through an open competition, preferably from the top of the hierarchy of the Commission. Diplomaticc? Service.
Excluded are the ambassadors appointed by the political leadership; of personalities.
83. Cyprus a beacon of stability in the Eastern Mediterranean
The solution of the Cyprus problem is a fixed but objective and it passes through the continuation of the talks between the two sides.
Today, the Cyprus problem is at its most critical juncture since 2004.
It is seeking a solution that is fair, viable, compatible with European Law and the acquis and based on the principles of the European Union. Based on the UN Resolution.
The referendum is an essential safeguardc;.
Is Greece standing by its side? Cyprus with all its reserve of political and diplomatic capital.
The economy, cost and reliability are essential parameters for determining the quality of a project. "negotiating power".
Liquidity and uncertainty in the wider region of the c? Middle c; Eastc? enhance the geopolitical and energy importance of thec? Cyprus and the energy and energy Greece.
The Republic of Cyprus, through the agreements it concludes with its neighbouring States for the exploitation of its submarine fleet in accordance with the International Convention on the Law of the Sea, has concluded an agreement with the Republic of Cyprus on the exploitation of its submarine fleet in accordance with the International Convention on the Law of the Sea. International Law, it is stabilising the region and promoting a better future for the Eastern Mediterranean and its energy security. Europe.
By calling on Turkey to stand with stability in the region, it reaffirms its European orientation, refraining from provocative actions and recognising its sovereign rights. Cyprus' sovereign rights are recognised and the Cyprus' sovereignty is confirmed. Republicc;.
Our partners in the EU must realise that our EEZ is not the only place where we have to be. Cyprus' OZS is not
is simply the easternmost EEZ? EU but also the bastion of European security.
84. Turkey: Let's get along
After ten years of Greek-Turkish rapprochement, there is a widespread feeling that few steps have been taken.
We want to enhance the communication between the two countries by creating a mechanism for regular but informal meetings between the two countries and defining:?
A "Greek special envoy for Turkey" (not necessarily political) following the French example.
We should fire at the new Turkey that looks westwards (students, scientists, youth).
We demand respect for the bilateral treaties, with the top priority being the C? the Treaty of Rome. Lausanne Treaty, international conventions and the United Nations Charter in our relations with Turkey.
When the two peoples want to live in peace as neighbours, allies and friends, the Turkish government cannot draw its military power and its internationally destructive, for the international community, force into the Aegean every day. Law, "casus belli".
The European perspective of the c? Turkey's European perspective, which Greece firmly supports, depends on the will of Turkey. Turkey's willingness to accept in practice and without discount all the commitments, including a code of conduct, that it has voluntarily undertaken since October 2005.
Turkey must formally recognise - and not through casual statements by its leaders - the rights of the Ecumenical Patriarchate to the Ecumenical Patriarchate. Constantinople.
85. Skopje: We solve the problem, we both win
We seek an immediate solution to the problem;.
It will benefit the two countries both economically and politically, while increasing stability in the region.
We support the national line which is an all-purpose name that will contain the term Macedonia, but with a clear designation that will distinguish it from Greek Macedonia.
Skopje must be asked to choose: do they want to become members of the European family or do they want to remain in isolation?
If they choose the former, they know that Europe goes through Athens.
86. A unified European response to migration
Migration is a global phenomenon in progress.
It is not a problem with automatic and definitive resolution.
The views on either zero immigration or massive acceptance of migrants move away from reality and deplore both the place of origin and the place of transit and destination.
The problem of immigration is not Greek, it is European. It is a European problem, and its management must be based on interaction and a fair distribution of responsibilities.
Greece should not be punished for its geographical position.
The management of the external borders of thec; EU should be the responsibility of the EU? Union as a whole, with all that this implies in terms of operational planning and logistical infrastructure.
The EU must force the intermediary countries to respect their commitments and not to be indifferent to the slave trade taking place on its territory, even under the threat of sanctions.
Edo? The? Greece; it is necessary to create a coordinating body for immigration that will coordinate state services and ministries and save money.
The internal immigration policy is based on the following points: //|1. providing international protection (asylum) to those who justify it,
2. combating illegal immigration,
3. promoting legal immigration,
4. integrating immigrants into society.
87. Europe is a safe haven for those who are persecuted
For those who know they need protection, i.e. are refugees and are fleeing their countries to save their lives, Europe must provide them with shelter.
But not only Greece.
We demand the replacement of Dublin 111 with a genuine Common European Asylum System which will provide for a Common European Asylum Service and the distribution of applicants to all Member States, taking into account the particular situation of the refugee and the integration potential of each Member State.
The refugee candidate does not apply in isolation to a particular Member State. EU country individually but to the EU.
European funds must be made available to create accommodation for applicants and to provide them with decent living conditions until the decision to grant or refuse asylum is taken.
It is necessary to strengthen the Greek Asylum Service for a speedy and fair processing of the asylum process.
They must be dealt with swiftly by the Ministry of Public Proc? The tens of thousands of asylum applications that have been pending at first and second instance for many years.
Asylum seekers whose claim is rejected must return to their country of origin with a new asylum seeker. EU.
Europe should use the special weight that development aid gives to countries of origin of migrants to more readily accept those who are illegally in the EU, in accordance with both international law and the readmission agreements they have signed with the EU.
88. By fighting illegal immigration, we protect both migrants and our country
Uncontrolled exit from the country of origin, wandering and illegal entry are dangerous for the migrant himself and harmful for the country of destination, permanent or temporary, such as Greece.
Greece, following the example of the; Italy, in coordination with Italy and other partners, should demand a more substantial contribution of Frontex to the control of Europe's external borders.
Only for the maritime border? Greece spends more than 5 million per month from national funds, about as much as Frontex contributes in a year.
The EU should, following the example of the EU, follow the example of. Australia and other countries, to carry out a campaign to inform and raise awareness among third country citizens of the risks of travel and the real prospects in the host country.
The aimc; to prevent himc; before hisc; movementc; and to protect himc; from thec; false promisesc; of traffickers and slavers.
The penalties for slave-traffickers and traffickers are known to be extinct.
Our proposal is that the ten years, which is the current maximum sentence, should become life imprisonment.
Checks and registration of migrants who are in the country for no legal reason, either because they entered the country illegally or because their legal reason for entry has expired.
We need more and better reception facilities for illegal immigrants.
The government has failed to absorb the available European funds and to meet its commitments. EU.
There are even European and foreign countries that agree to co-fund such infrastructure (Norway and the United Kingdom).
The return of migrants to the places of transit and origin:; through voluntary or forced readmission, return or expulsion procedures is already being carried out in cooperation with international organisations (IOM, UNHCR)
but concerted pressure is needed from the EU to oblige third countries to take back their citizens, as international law obliges them to do, if they have not been granted refugee status.
89. Legal immigration means legal work
We take in as many legal immigrants as we can feed.
We are constantly recording the demand in the domestic labour market for skilled/specialist staff in order to find where the need is.
Immigrants come legally either in a bilateral framework or through agreements between the two countries. EU agreements with third countries with measures of recall and cyclical or seasonal migration, as proposed. EU POLICY MAKERS KNOW.
Legal migrants have papers, job security and healthcare and are not exploited.
They return to their countryc; when their work is finishedc; if it is seasonal.
Strict controls on the labour market to combat the black labour market of migrants.
Migrants must be made easier to report black labour schemes and authorities must effectively protect them from violence and arbitrariness.
90. Inclusion: Immigrants are part of our society.
The aim is the economic, social and political integration and inclusion of migrants.
The effective integration of immigrants into Greek society passes through the learning of the Greek language and the familiarization with the basic archetypes and values of Greek and Western culture.
Social policy measures relating to health, insurance and housing for migrants.
Access to care and education must be guaranteed for migrants and refugees.
There must be a social policy for the reintegration of migrants and refugees in all cities, depending on the population and the local characteristics of society.
For example, small open structures for refugees and legal migrants will be built in various districts and towns so that not only one neighbourhood will be burdened.
There are European funds for this purpose, which are lost because the ministries cannot agree with each other.
The local government should control the conditions under which migrants live in their neighbourhoods and prevent them from living in third world conditions (thousands of people living in the basements of apartment buildings).
Immigrants who want to stay in Greece must learn the Greek language in public schools and learn the universal values
and fundamental rights that govern Greece and the European Union.
The attendance of adults in public units for learning the Greek language and the schooling of the children of immigrants is a prerequisite for the legalization and residence in the country of the whole family.
Potami clearly argues that the children of immigrants living and growing up in Greece can, if they wish, obtain Greek citizenship.
This will be done by examining specific substantive and formal requirements.
An essential prerequisite is individualized.Foreign crisis.
A typical requirement is to have attended a year of education in a Greek school or to have reached the age of 18, provided that they have attended secondary education for six years, regardless of their country of birth.
91. Prisons to be turned into correctional laboratories
The purpose of punishment, apart from the administration of justice, is not revenge but correction.
And yet, in the prison environment that has been created, this concept is absent.
The prisoner knows how to define measurable and assessable value.
The prison environment needs to be adapted in order to make productive use of the time spent in prison and to prepare prisoners for reintegration into society.
Prison decongestion is urgent.
The alternative forms of sentencing, Restorative Justice (with the victim being satisfied by the perpetrator and avoiding trial as practiced in places where the perpetrator is the perpetrator), are the alternative forms of punishment, Restorative Justice (with the victim being satisfied by the perpetrator and avoiding trial as practiced in places where the perpetrator is the perpetrator) and Restorative Justice (with the perpetrator being satisfied by the victim and avoiding trial). Central and Western countries? Europe) and the broader application of Custody? Socialc? Assistancec; (the prisoner:; is released:; on parole while performing social work under the supervision and evaluation of the Supervisor) will lead to a decongestion and a change in thec; philosophyc; ofc; sentencingc;.
The prison environment needs to be adapted in order to make productive use of the time spent in prison and to prepare prisoners for reintegration into society.
92. Rural prisons to become integrated farms
Modernized:; the farms of the agricultural prisons, such as those of the;; In line with the sustainable development architecture, we can move towards the production of quality products with innovative cultivation techniques.
This means economic autonomy, meeting prisoners' needs with quality food, training prisoners in technical skills and easier reintegration.
At the same time, with the participation of students of the Agricultural Schools and unemployed agronomists, a modern agricultural prison will be created, economically autonomous and with multiple social objectives.
All products intended for sale from the prison to the market must be processed and packaged to contain the highest possible added value and officially certified as being of high quality, i.e. organic or at least integrated (Agro, Global gap) to achieve the best possible price.
93. National Military Strategy Council
Appointment of a permanent Deputy Minister of Defence, coming from the; A permanent Minister of Defence, with responsibilities for issues requiring long-term planning and coordination.
Establishment of a "National Councilc; Militaryc; Strategy" with the presumptively best retired military officer. officer, i.e. the last retired officer. 4-5 captains? and 2-3 from each DG, namely the General Staff of the Army, the Navy and the War College. Air Force, in which the active duty officers will also participate.
When one of the leaders is retired, he will immediately join this council and the corresponding senior leader will leave.
The approval of the proposals will be done as it is now by the GACC which may require modifications, but the proposal and the history is kept on file.
The aim is to expose any amendments, e.g. on armaments or other issues that serve personal or party interests, which the CSCEO or the Minister will be asked to justify with arguments that are recorded and archived together with the original proposal.
institutionalization of the Military Councilc; Strategic Council ensures mainly? Long-term planning and continuity, exploitation of the accumulation.the knowledge and experience of the most competent and multi-layered knowledge and experience of the most competent top-ranking members of the armed forces in all three arms, the ability to adapt rapidly to frequently changing situations in a rapidly changing environment, better and more appropriate armament programmes that will ensure maximum value for money.Result with the least possible sacrifice and the establishment of integrated, complete and efficient systems. Military? Strategy of great "special importance" for obvious reasons, since most of the others will be the source of many different views, through which they will have to be considered.
94. Rationalisation of military structures
In connection with the previous proposal, a study is required for the organization of the armed forces on a non-decennial basis, based on the actual requirements, in the context of the creation of armed forces capable of preventing and, if necessary, successfully confronting clearly defined threats to our sovereign rights.
Only through this process will the real needs in personnel emerge, which will determine the level of military service, a particularly serious matter, which affects the strength of the armed forces, but also the lives of children and society, and therefore there is no room for hastiness.
The length of the term of office, through the procedure set out above, must be as short as possible and fully justified.
95. Personnel of the Armed Forces
The armed forces are a humanistic organization and more attention should be paid to the staff in terms of issues of justice and meritocracy, both for the permanent staff and for the conscripts who for 9-12 months put aside their dreams and are called to serve their country.
Meritocracy in transfer and promotion should be ensured through specific procedures, clear definitions and institutionalised and not institutionalised job descriptions.
Military personnel are a special category of civil servants and should be paid according to the difficulties and risk of their profession.
Is it not reasonable that the salary of the Chief of the Armed Forces should be less than that of a President of a provincial Court of First Instance.
The financial support should include solving the housing problem of staff who are forced to move every 2-3 years with their families, often to areas where supply does not meet demand, with all that this implies in terms of rent.
Provision should be made for conscripts who are called up to serve their country and leave behind families with serious financial problems.
The financially weak should be guaranteed free transport on every holiday and a corresponding monthly salary.
96. Equipment programmes
Armament programmes should be a prerequisite for the implementation of the C? National Military? National Military Strategy, as it will emerge from the process described above in the proposal. 93 and 94, and should be carried out on the basis of achieving the maximum possible result at the lowest possible cost.
The necessary for the national economy containment of defence spending goes beyond the fight against corruption and the development of international production and design of defence systems.
The purpose of the arms programmes is to arm the country, not the corrupt old party.
97. Defence industry
The foreign industry must have the time needed to prepare for participation in a procurement tender
The foreign defence industry is of strategic importance for the country and the economy, due to the high defence expenditure to which Greece is forced to submit.
The continued development of the defence industry and research will contribute positively to the Greek economy.
The existing units currently owned by the state will have to be evaluated and made viable, either in the public or private sector. privatisation of the defence industry does not mean zero control by the military or loss of secrecy.
Research in the field of defence technology, basic and necessary for the proper development of domestic production and cost reduction, must be strengthened.
98. Utilisation of the real estate of the Armed Forces
The effort to exploit the real estate of the National Defence Forces, following its consolidation under the single National Fund, was not successful. Defence, should be completed soon.
There has been an unjustifiably long delay.
The utilization should include the concession of a local community (municipality) for the creation of parks and green spaces with a utilization clause, so that we do not see again an image of abandoned foreign camps that in the past were granted to municipalities.
It is a unique opportunity, through the exploitation, to solve the housing problem of the staff and the maintenance of existing troops without burdening the state budget.
Another proposal is that the spaces that will be released in the countryside should be used for uses that require large single hectares, such as model cooperative organic farms, vineyards, energy parks, etc.
99. Safety on the roads
The leading cause of death in young people aged 15 to 29 years is road traffic accidents, the second in children aged 4 to 29 years. 15 and the third in those up to 44 years of age.
Sterea, Peloponnese and Western Greece are the three most dangerous regions in Europe, but in the list of the 20 most dangerous regions, they are joined by 5 other regions of our country.
Epirus, the South Aegean, the East Aegean, the East. Macedonia-Thrace, Thessaly and Western Macedonia.
Greece must stop losing its children on the tarmac, a tragedy that costs 2% of the country's GDP.
It requires the immediate use of European funds to upgrade the road network, as well as the implementation of education programmes for all students, in order to create proper traffic education for future generations.
There is an urgent need to create a fair system of examinations for driving licences and a quality training programme for candidate drivers.
