8th Congress we want our Homeland back
POLITICAL POSITIONS
For the Golden Dawn of Hellenism
Proposals for the solution of the Greek problem,
the recovery of our national economy,
the demographic boom
and the geopolitical upgrading of Hellenism
THE POSITION OF GREECE - GENERAL PRINCIPLES
Throughout the historical span of the Greek geographical space, the following strategic imperatives have defined the framework for the survival of our People: Securing control of the Aegean Sea and the islands of Corfu, Crete and Rhodes.
Protecting and safeguarding the Axios valley.
Consolidation of national sovereignty within the country by eliminating divisive - separatist centres and their anti-national actions.
A stable and fair tax policy.
Concentration of national capital with central development coordination, while developing regional centres.
Extending control and influence in Cyprus to ensure our sovereignty in the Eastern Mediterranean.
Golden Dawn believes in and seeks peaceful coexistence and cooperation with neighbouring peoples.
But peace, both social and between nations, is based on mutual respect for international law and the dignity of each nation.
Turkey is the dominant state threat against us and is undoubtedly a rising geopolitical power, and with obvious expansionist intent it is extending its influence in the Balkans, the Middle East and the Caucasus.
Greece must learn how to survive by relying on its geopolitical resources
, or to invent a way to become necessary to one or more great powers,
or to seek a permanent "peace of submission" with Turkey, i.e. to consent to its total self-disarmament and historical suicide.
Either way, the years to come will be extremely decisive for Greek history.
The "rescue package" from the International Monetary Fund and the European Union was provided with attached grids of severe austerity, which led a significant part of the population to rapid impoverishment.
The anti-people's measures of the IMF-EU, i.e. the "Memorandum", weaken the central administration of the government and undermine its control.
Their continuation will force Greece to face a total collapse of political control and an outbreak of social violence.
The only way of salvation requires the cancellation of the debt.
For the first time since the nationalist decade of the 1820s, the Homeland is truly alone, and facing a number of immense and mutually reinforcing problems :
1. Greece is internally weakened by a prolonged recession, unemployment and a collapse in living standards.
2. Our country is already home to a huge number of illegal immigrants,
whose presence poses deadly risks to social cohesion,
public and national security.
3. The state is governed by a dangerously inefficient, ethnically deconstructive political system.
4. The discovery of huge energy reserves within the Greek EEZ poses huge tensions or even violent conflicts over their distribution.
5. The greatest danger for geostrategic stability in the Aegean and the Eastern Mediterranean is the revisionist policy of Turkey, which aspires to hegemony in the Southeastern Mediterranean.
Turkey's internal destabilisation increases the risk of the crisis spilling over into Dismas.
6. Also, the possibility of further confrontational tendencies and actions by the two other, overtly revisionist states, Albania and Skopje, against Greece, should not be underestimated.
Their small size is inversely proportional to their anti-Hellenic aggression and ambitions.
With Turkish-American assistance they came to have armed forces not much smaller than the Greek armed forces.
Moreover, on the Greek-Scopian and Greek-Albanian border, our existing military formations there were abolished by the last foreign governments.
7. The greatest danger is that the three aforementioned revisionisms will be combined and coordinated to the detriment of Greece.
THE POLITICAL SITUATION
We are experiencing the end of "Metapolitics", the last acts of a drama that led our country to a grim economic disaster, destroyed the national and social fabric of the country, crushed Greek morals and attempted to uproot traditional values.
The post-independence period began with a national tragedy, the "Cyprus Catastrophe" of 1974, which was at the same time a national betrayal, without the traitors ever being tried and held accountable.
The same foreign politicians pushed our country into the then E.O.C.
and promised the people easy money and consumption without moderation.
In order to keep these promises, they continued to borrow on usurious terms and create a huge public debt bubble.
The post-communist period was based on the dominance of a strongly statist "political economy" of benefits and bribery.
The productive economy was systematically weakened and eliminated, as it was much easier for the willing citizen-party applauder to prosper
through his direct or indirect profitable relationship with the party state than through his participation in the production of real wealth.
Greece's national sovereignty has been dramatically reduced.
Indicatively, we mention the cynical confession of the Speaker of the Parliament Anna Psarouda-Benaki in 2005, the status of the memoranda and the subordination to English law,
as well as the gradual imposition of grey zones in the Aegean.
The "crisis of the economy", i.e. the end of enrichment, cleared the fog that clouded the crisis and dulled the conscience of the Greeks.
Golden Dawn became a hope and a slogan in the mouths of hundreds of thousands, perhaps millions of our compatriots.
But Golden Dawn is much more than a political party.
The GOLDEN WING IS THE ONLY HOPE OF SURVIVING GREECE IN THE DIFFICULT WEATHER THAT IS COMING.
It is the natural expression of the Nation that passes unchanged through thousands of years of history to the present day, to inspire the Greek, to awaken his conscience and lead him to his destiny.
THE PERPETRATORS OF THE DISASTER CANNOT POSSIBLY BRING ABOUT THE CLEANSING.
The Greek people must understand that they must work constructively in order to achieve the development and prosperity of our country.
Golden Dawn's doctrine on National Security Policy and Foreign Policy is reflected in the "Strategic Depth of the Archipelago".
Greece has a huge strategic depth, which can ensure inexhaustible power and international influence:
it is the Aegean Sea and its south-eastern maritime extension, which reaches as far as the great island of Cyprus.
The geopolitical value of this region and the still untapped resources it encloses can solve the modern economic problems of our state,
but also give it a prominent position in the international economic and strategic chessboard.
First and foremost, Greece must become a free and sovereign state again,
and cease to be a sad and weak protectorate of foreign powers.
This brochure contains a summary of our policy proposals for national resurrection and revival.
Specifically for the survival issues of National Defence - Security, Agricultural Production and Health, the proposals are set out in more detail.
Our goal is for Hellenism to stand upright again and gain the international position it deserves as a central power in the geopolitically sensitive area of the Eastern Mediterranean.
AOZ - HYDROCARBONS - 12 NAUTICAL MILES - CYPRUS
Golden Dawn's goal is the immediate delineation of the boundaries of the Greek EEZ, based on the "Principle of the Middle Line" and taking as a whole the maritime boundaries of Greece with Turkey, from the mouth of Evros to Kastelorizo.
This option is feasible, and will substantially strengthen our country's position in a wider geostrategic context.
Greece is located at a geopolitical hub.
It connects the West with the largest energy reservoir on the planet.
The Middle East has been plunged into a black hole of ambiguity as to its future course.
Energy-poor Europe will soon face a problem of energy self-sufficiency.
A lightning declaration of the Greek EEZ followed by the extraction of Greek energy deposits, directly upgrades the role of Greece and its special weight vis-à-vis the US, Russia and Western Europe.
An obvious prerequisite for the above is a strong Armed Forces.
Given that Greece does not have the necessary expertise in hydrocarbon exploration and extraction at this time, an important compensatory benefit from the country of origin and interests of the company that will undertake the work must be the strategic alliance and the consequent protection of Greek subsea land.
The selection of this company, apart from the monetarist benefit (i.e. the percentage of profits that the Greek State will gain), must also be carried out in accordance with the geopolitical principles mentioned above.
Thus, the only way left for Turkey is to formally oppose the Mining Convention, which would of course constitute a de facto recognition of the Convention.
We should not miss the fact that Turkey insists on unofficial routes, because it knows that the decision of the International Court of Justice on the issue of the delimitation of the EEZ will be positive for Greece.
With the signing in 1982 of the "United Nations International Convention on the Law of the Sea", which included the right to extend Greek territorial waters to 12 nautical miles, Turkey declared that it considered this extension to be a "cause of war" (casus belli) if Greece adopted it.
For 33 consecutive years and despite the fact that, in order to safeguard our national sovereign rights, the blood of Greek heroes, such as the Heroes of our Navy, Hector Gialopsos, Panagiotis Vlachakos and Christodoulos Karathanasis, has been spilled in the Imia incident, Greek diplomacy has tacitly accepted the creation of "grey zones" in the Aegean.
Instead of directly denouncing Turkish threats and immediately implementing the dictates of International Law, the foreign and submissive governments of Greece are ceding national sovereignty and Greek territories.
Golden Dawn's goal is the immediate start of the extraction process of Greek energy deposits, based on the Law of the Sea.
Therefore, the first and main strategic move is the denunciation of the Turkish casus belli to the UN Security Council and the immediate extension of our territorial waters to 12 nautical miles.
This step makes the Aegean Sea a closed Greek sea and gives us the ability to control navigation in the Dardanelles Straits.
The decisive factor for developments at this level is Russia, whose interests are identical with the Greek position.
This identification may evolve into a major energy and defence agreement, with the aim of eliminating the Turkish threat.
Implementation of the "Doctrine of the Common Defence Area (DCA) between Greece and Cyprus", which in combination with the adjacent EEZs of the two states, will be equivalent to a de facto union of the martyred Megalonos with Greece.
POLITICAL LIFE - ELECTORAL SYSTEM
Abolition of parliamentary immunity and the law on the responsibility of ministers.
Confiscation of property of those convicted of misappropriation of public funds.
Introduction of the simple proportional representation in the electoral law.
The simple and unadulterated proportional representation is the only electoral system that respects and implements the provision of paragraph 2 of Article 1 of the Constitution, according to which "the foundation of the constitution is popular sovereignty".
Simple proportional representation faithfully reflects the will of the electorate, since with this electoral system each party gets the seats that correspond to the percentage of valid ballots it receives in the elections.
Reduction of the number of MPs to two hundred.
Members of Parliament may be elected for up to two full parliamentary terms or a cumulative total of 8 years.
In this way, the phenomenon of political professionals will be eliminated,
since politicians will know that involvement in public affairs at the level of central government is limited in time.
Members of parliament and members of the government will return to their professional activity after the end of the period.
The Prime Minister may be a Member of Parliament, but not the Ministers and Deputy Ministers (separation of powers), who are appointed on the basis of their knowledge and experience.
Election of the President of the Republic directly by the People.
NATIONAL ECONOMY - NATIONALITY - DEBT
Memorandum governments do not serve the interests of the country.
The policy of the memoranda has proved to be disastrous,
causing economic and social destruction, a
dramatic contraction of the Gross National Product, an
unprecedented increase in unemployment (25.2% in June 2015, the highest rate in the EU)
and an explosion of debts to unmanageable levels.
The IMF predicted that Greece's debt in 2017 will reach almost 200% of GDP.
Golden Dawn, firm in its position on the unilateral denunciation of the Memorandum, unlike
the left, which for electoral reasons used the Memorandum terminology of "renegotiation" which led to the signing of the third "progressive" Memorandum,
aims at the immediate audit of the public debt and the immediate cancellation of the illegal and burdensome debt paid by the Greek people.
"1% industrial growth is worth a hundred times more than 1% tourism growth or consumer expansion, because the former alone contributes to the self-sufficiency of the Homeland".Panagiotis Kondylis (1943-1998)
-The General Secretary of Golden Dawn stated in an interview in September 2015 that Greece "must return to national production in order to stand on its feet.
If the Greek has a national economy, then he has the luxury of choosing which of the two currencies (euro or national currency) he prefers.
Our choice is for the country to have a national currency, but first it must have a national economy.
Let's not forget that we have paid for the euro with the destruction of industrial and agricultural production, and with the kickbacks to Europeans and their political partners."
Golden Dawn supports a model of economic development based on the concepts of labour and production.
It encourages private initiative, provided that it does not run counter to the national interest, and considers it essential that enterprises of strategic interest remain under state management and control.
Banking and economic activity must facilitate and support work, production and social justice.
The first objective is self-sufficiency in all the basic means of subsistence of the people.
A state needs FOOD, DRUGS, FUEL AND GARBAGE to survive, remain free and create.
In the first stage, Golden Dawn aims to strengthen and scientifically plan our agricultural and livestock production, so that we can fully cover our internal needs in basic foodstuffs.
GREECE IS A RICH COUNTRY.
Although our national production, agriculture and livestock farming have been destroyed in the last four decades,
if Greece functions as an independent state and not as a protectorate of foreign powers, it can again produce and become a rich and strong country.
We can start again.
Yes to National Production!
THE OCCUPATION LOAN
During the triple occupation, the German army received money in the form of a loan from the Bank of Greece, adding an additional financial burden to our Homeland, in addition to the confiscations and destruction suffered by Hellenism.
But the Germans recognized this debt and even before the end of the war they started to repay it.
At the Paris Peace Conference in 1946, Germany's occupation debt to Greece amounted to 100 billion euros.
Since then, the interest-free nature of the debt has ceased, and with the addition of a token interest rate, the debt now stands at €510 billion.
Other estimates by reputable European economists put the figure at €575 billion (Jacques Delpla, "Les Echos" 23/6/11).
Golden Dawn aims to claim the occupation loan from the German government, which is largely responsible for the Greek debt bubble.
The "easy loans" of the EU that Greece received in the last decades gave life to the German export industry and are still being repaid on usurious terms.
Only a truly national leadership can claim the rights of Greece and the offsetting of our debt to Germany against the occupation loan.
FOREIGN POLICY
Greece is part of the Earth Ring which functions as a buffer against the downward trends towards the Mediterranean of the Eurasian Land Power, as it is understood, from the Anglo-American point of view, as a "potentially homogeneous strategic threat".
This reading of the balance of international power, according to the American professor of International Relations at Yale University, geopolitician Nicholas John Spykman, constitutes the basic axis of the geostrategic perception of international reality from the American side, regardless of its political position.
Given that the U.S.A. determines the main European strategic choices in the field of Defence and Security, and if the U.S.A. continues to be the main regulator in the SE Mediterranean, the geostrategic perception of the Greek space, as well as our country's Defence Policy, must monitor and take into account the U.S.A.'s perception of the wider Mediterranean area and, consequently, its major strategic choices.
The dynamics of Greece's geopolitical location has never favoured neutrality.
The powerful players of the International System will never leave such a space out of their calculations.
Since the fateful summer of 1974, up to the Imia crisis in 1996, our Homeland has suffered enormous losses from the action of the Atlantic powers.
A shift in our geopolitical orientation, first of all in terms of investment and energy, would be a move that would certainly favour the national interest.
Geopolitical theory shows that a maritime power, such as Greece, must cooperate with a land power in order to function in a complementary way.
Our historical experience shows that whenever we trusted our so-called Western "allies" we were unhappy, because they had every interest in wanting a Greece that would be helpless in this critical corner of the South-Eastern Mediterranean, so that it would be their servant by necessity.
At the economic level, the experience of the onerous austerity and the homicidal memoranda clearly shows us that a ruthless economic war is being waged with the ultimate goal of the total control of our country by the Western powers, through the IMF and the ECB.
On the basis of the current data, the Euro-Atlantic "Western alliance", under the auspices of NATO, is attempting to encircle Russia, establishing military bases and an anti-missile umbrella on the Russian periphery.
The current geopolitical context, in which the US is suffering defeats at the hands of Russia, with the US economic powers financing two geopolitical events in Syria and the wider Middle East,
shows that it is the right time to begin this shift.
The destabilisation of the Middle East and Ukraine clearly show that the great maritime power, the US, wishes to control these regions.
The exit to the warm seas, which the Americans are spending billions of dollars to prevent and the Russians billions of rubles to achieve, is in Greece's vital space.
Since the fateful summer of 1974, up to the Imia crisis in 1996, our Homeland has suffered enormous losses from the action of the Atlantic powers.
A shift in our geopolitical orientation, first of all in terms of investment and energy, an opening up to the Russian factor, which remains 100% excluded from Greece, would be a move that would definitely favour the national interest.
In the energy field, Russia supplies the EU and the Baltic countries with more than 50% of the oil and gas they consume,
but it also has the know-how to extract hydrocarbons and the military power to protect the deposits.
The above data, in light of the escalating Turkish provocativeness and the deceitful reluctance of the West to allow the declaration of the Greek EEZ, make Russia a valuable ally,
which can ensure calm in the Aegean after the declaration of the Greek EEZ at first sight and the start of the extraction and exploitation of our hydrocarbons.
TRANSPORT - TOURISM
Our country is the key to the European transport network.
With the European port policy gaining great intensity and with the inclusion of 25 Greek ports in the trans-European port network (TEN-T), we can gain a new dynamic in international trade.
Golden Dawn proposes:The creation of a network for the ports of Thessaloniki-Kavala-Alexandroupolis, in connection with our railway network, in cooperation with the Russian state railway company and the development of the Sea 2 Sea railway corridor (Kavala-Alexandroupolis-Bulgaria-Russia), with the simultaneous connection of the Moscow-Kazan network.
Russians will be able to invest in Greek ports, developing modern transit centres.
So we can potentially become a regional commercial centre, taking into account the short distance of our ports from our borders.
The ports of Thessaloniki - Kavala - Alexandroupolis are also of major energy interest,
since in Thessaloniki there are the facilities of HELPE,
in Kavala "KAVALA OIL" is active
and for the port of Alexandroupolis there is the expressed intention of the Russians to install a floating LPG-LNG storage tank.
Russia wants a docking pier with supply and repair capabilities in the Mediterranean.
The events in Syria have deprived it of this possibility.
So the ports of Northern Greece are becoming of great value in this sector, as is Syros, which has docking facilities and has the Syros Nerion shipyards,
where Russia had expressed an interest in buying or leasing.
The strategic alliance with Russia ensures the connection to and from Asia, with the Aegean and the Black Sea as the main axis, through the Black Sea, via the Black Sea, ensuring Greece a key role in the geopolitical chessboard, and the neutralization of the threats of the Turkish factor in Thrace.
Most Greek ships have "flags of convenience" to avoid bureaucracy and taxation.
This results in foreign flags gaining from Greek-owned shipping.
Great Britain to stop the loss of state revenue gave independence to three islands (Guernsey, Jersey, Isle of Man), keeping their shipping money.
Greece can do the same by giving special status to our islands such as Hydra and Chios, which have a long maritime tradition.
This will bring money to the country
and new jobs for Greeks.
AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Our agricultural production remains hostage to domestic and foreign plutocratic interests,
which do not want Greece to be self-sufficient, on the one hand,
and on the other hand, they wish to exploit Greek land for their own benefit.
Golden Dawn seeks to achieve food self-sufficiency for the Greek people and links it to the strong recovery of the agricultural sector, a sector of strategic national interest, by adopting a national policy
different from the destructive policy of the EU and the multinationals that have fraudulently led to the gradual death of Greek traditional agriculture, livestock farming and fishing.
The fundamental proposals of Golden Dawn for the reorganization of the agricultural sector are: Education of the youth in the gradual "return to the land" and the values inherent to agriculture, such as healthy nutrition, through experiential teaching in primary education, while creating and upgrading agricultural schools and institutes.
Couples and the unemployed will face the evolving "crisis" drastically, benefiting from financial and tax incentives.
Indicatively, they will be credited with the preferential assignment of land that remains unused and uncultivated, they
will be provided by the state with the structures, know-how and tools necessary for cultivation,
but also the reconstruction of properties in rural villages, in
order to ensure a decent and comfortable family and social life (rural buildings, public services, shops, post offices, schools and churches).
Emphasis on the peripheral regions of our borders, Thrace and the islands of the East Aegean.
Promotion and protection of Greek food products in domestic and international trade.
Strict quality and origin control - with the widespread use of a "protected designation of origin" certification label, easily recognisable to the consumer.
Greek products will bear a detailed indication of their place of origin, raw materials, techniques and production process in order to inspire confidence.
Incentive for the export of Greek products through an extensive policy of transnational trade agreements aimed at their widest possible promotion.
Further subsidies for agricultural production from the special fund to be set up from the exploitation of Greek hydrocarbons.
Re-establishment of an Agricultural Bank under the auspices of the state as a low-interest financing tool for agricultural investments.
Review, regulation with a 5-year grace period, cancellation of interest and cancellation of debts of Greek farmers, fishermen, beekeepers and livestock farmers in order to give a new impetus to the Greek agricultural economy.
Reduce VAT to 9% on all live animals, animal feed, agricultural and livestock services.
Restoring the farm income tax rate to 13%.
Organising production at the local level by establishing producer groups that will produce products that thrive in their area by applying organic farming and other sustainable development methods.
Quality control in special laboratories for any residues of pesticides in
order to ensure the quality of agricultural, fresh, dried and canned products
and to ensure public health.
Direct link between agricultural production and consumption.
Stopping the speculative impunity of intermediaries.
Establishment of cooperation agreements between agricultural producers and commercial enterprises, for the maximum possible protection of their mutual interests.
Formation of a "National Register of Farmers", without intermediaries, in
order to obtain supplies (fertilizers and soil conditioners) from the rich subsoil of our country,
in order to reduce the cost of production,
and, after the extraction of Greek hydrocarbons, tax-free oil of Greek production.
Supporting agricultural actions such as the self-production of animal feed, the preparation of fields for cultivation, the rational use of water, the recycling of agricultural production residues for the production of organic fertilisers, etc.
Organized operation of certified banks of Greek seeds for their reproduction, redistribution and utilization in Greek production.
Impose high tariffs on imported fertilisers and seeds.
Strict controls on the importation of dehydrated ice cream/smoothies/tomatoes/juices and mandatory prominent labelling of the origin, proportion etc. on products in which they are contained.
Supporting vine growers for replanting with selected varieties and modern cultivation methods that are friendly to nature and man.
Establish a mechanism to record and control national production in order to regulate import levels in relation to national sufficiency by species and sector.
Support for all farmers by agronomists.
Utilization of our minerals for the production of organic fertilizers and soil mapping by Greek universities of agricultural areas for the preparation of fertilization programs and supplies for plant protection.
Strengthening the domestic fertilizer production industry
so that they are adapted to Greek soils and crops,
and at the same time competitive in quality and price compared to imported ones.
Protection of the Greek environment from the pesticides of the multinational giants:
A gradual shift to organic agriculture in order to protect the environment of our country and stop the loss of foreign exchange.
Banning Genetically Modified Organisms and repealing the relevant legislation that allows or tolerates them,
with all-out support for the idea of organic and biological biodiversity.
Mandatory labelling of "Genetically Modified" or "Non-GMO" on all imported foods and products.
Imposition of tariffs on all products from abroad, except for countries with which Greece has close bilateral agreements.
A complete ban on the import of goods from countries that resort to slave labour or that do not respect basic hygiene rules.
Mandatory introduction of the recycling of agricultural residues for the production of organic fertilizers in local recycling facilities, aiming for sustainability at national level by acting at local level.
Creation of logger cooperatives with scientific planning and strict controls.
Reforestation of logged areas to restore the natural environment.
Financial and technical support to old farmers for the modernisation of their units and to new farmers for the creation of livestock units based on modern standards adapted to the Greek reality.
Support for all farmers by veterinarians.
A register of primitive Greek animal breeds for their survival, with financial and technical assistance for their reproduction.
Strict limitation of the characterisation of fresh milk to 5 days.
Strict quality control on imports of milk and milk powder.
Strengthening Greek industries.
Mapping and improvement of pastures, securing electricity and water supply, planting of fodder plants, etc., based on the real needs of Greek farmers.
Establishment of a special department in the Ministry of Development for the protection of Greek products (PDO, domestication, etc.)
Strengthening of tanning for the exploitation of hides.
Strengthen the sheep and goat wool processing sector.
Support for beekeeping and the marketing of beekeeping products.
Prominent indication of the origin of honey sold in Greece.
Supporting Greek fishermen both in their daily needs (equipment, upgrading of vessels) and in the protection of fishable areas.
TOURISM
The economic recovery of our country cannot ignore the development of our unique heritage landscape, both natural and cultural - through tourism.
Our proposals for immediate implementation:Strengthening the historical, artistic and environmental heritage at local level.
Opening the gates of Greek tourism, in order to promote the image of our country, still little known to many worldwide.
Improvement and adaptation of infrastructure for year-round, winter, archaeological and religious tourism.
Promotion of agrotourism by creating model farm and cattle units open to visitors
Promotion of local products in tourist accommodation.
HEALTH - SOCIAL WELFARE
Accounting control in public hospitals
Preferential treatment of the domestic pharmaceutical industry and promotion of medicines produced in Greece for public hospitals.
Golden Dawn radically distinguishes the Greek pharmaceutical industry from the multinational pharmaceutical giants and considers it as one of the strong export-oriented sectors of the economy.
The Greek pharmaceutical and medical-nursing equipment industries will benefit from substantial tax relief
if they employ at least 80% Greek and 20% mostly Greek workers from European Union countries (it is proposed to give preference to Greeks)
and at the same time they must be up to date with their tax and social security payments.
Provide incentives for the establishment of new export-oriented industries producing high quality biotechnology products.
Providing high quality health services to all Greeks.
Fighting the informal economy that leads to the closure of Greek businesses and the elimination of jobs, while at the same time depriving the social security funds of revenue.
Ensure a tertiary and mixed (state and university) hospital in each health region that is identical to the administrative region.
Legislative regulation of the functional link between private doctors and secondary hospitals.
Compilation of new tables of diagnostic tests and medical procedures based on the latest international scientific data.
Their costing will be based on the current Greek and international economic reality.
These tables will be binding for the EOPYY and for all hospitals of the NHS, as well as for the institutions contracted with the State or the EOPYY.
Establish screening by population group according to the predicted morbidity and specific risks documented by epidemiological data.
Checkup by age, by gender and by employee category.
Preventive medical examinations will be provided free of charge by the state and will apply equally to insured and uninsured Greeks.
Procurement planning, under the responsibility of the Hospital administrations and with the statistical study of the actual consumption of drugs and materials in the previous year as a reference.
Establishment of a "Health Agency for the Uninsured, the Poor and the Indigent" by urgent legislation.
The beneficiaries of the health care benefits will be the demonstrably bankrupt, unemployed and uninsured Greeks, according to objective and easily verifiable criteria.
The Agency will also include needy Greeks with many children.
The lists of beneficiaries will be established by the municipalities.
Each Region will have a committee for the management of the allocated funds, the composition of which will be determined by a joint ministerial decision of the Ministers of Health and Finance.
The OAP will provide primary and secondary care.
The remuneration of contracted doctors will be based on the principle of a fixed monthly fee which will be recognised by the State as having a social character and will not be taxed.
Immediate staffing and supply of necessary equipment to provincial hospitals so that serious surgical operations and the monitoring of the seriously ill do not have to end up in large urban centres.
The creation and reopening of paediatric and intensive care unit (ICU) beds for newborns and children in all the pathology departments of secondary hospitals, so that ordinary or simple cases are not referred to the "Children's Hospitals" which will clearly take on a tertiary character.
Special financial and scientific incentives for highly qualified doctors and nurses to settle and work in remote provincial or island hospitals.
To serve our islanders, two fully organised floating hospitals will be established as secondary hospitals, under the auspices of the Armed Forces (GEN).
The ships - hospitals will be staffed by doctors of the NHS with short-term secondments from the hospitals where they will have their organic position and Military Doctors who will be assigned with short-term secondments from the General Staff.
Medical auxiliaries may include doctors who are obliged to serve in the field.
Organisation of a special military air and boat evacuation service using the Army's units.
At least 5 helicopter parking and launching points and the 7 points of arrival of air passengers in Athens, Thessaloniki, Patras, Heraklion, Rhodes, Kavala and Alexandroupolis are defined.
The secondary and tertiary private nursing sector will be strengthened to operate in a way that reduces the burden on the NHS,
by taking over hospitalisation or specific medical procedures on the basis of a pre-agreed cost schedule, which will not deviate significantly from the current NHS cost schedule.
Possibility of auxiliary on-call service of private clinics in parallel to NHS hospitals.
Restructuring and consolidation of clinics of the institutions for the chronically ill so that the chronically ill have access to special medical, nursing, physiotherapy and psychiatric services.
Particular emphasis on cleaning and feeding issues.
Participation in the boards of directors of institutions for the chronically ill of support associations and relatives' associations, as well as representatives of the medical and nursing service, is established.
The home care of the elderly or other chronically ill patients, especially children with chronic disabilities and chronic psychopaths, places a significant burden and often disrupts the patients' families in many ways.
Life for both sufferers and their relatives is often excruciating.
The committees of social workers and psychologists, under the guidance and continuous cooperation with the scientific committees of the institutions for the chronically ill, will monitor these special patients in both places of residence and will draw up findings - recommendations for the better living and the optimal quality of the patients' stay, while the place of residence will be periodically changed.
The institution of the family doctor is promoted.
The introduction of health promotion, preventive medicine and the recurrent recording of monthly quantities of medicines for chronic patients (medicine consumption sheets) is gradually being transferred to family doctors who will form the basic structure of public primary care.
Intensive Care Units are a great achievement of medicine and Greeks must have immediate access to them.
Immediately take an inventory of active NICU beds and the hospitals where they are located.
Geographical definition and establishment of new ones, where necessary, and their rational distribution.
Mapping of private sector NICU beds.
The EOPYY assumes the cost of their use on the basis of a pre-agreed tariff between the Ministry of Health and private clinics.
Inventory of clinics that appear to have been established but are not functioning due to shortages of qualified medical and nursing staff.
In order to address the demographic problem affecting the country, from a medical and health point of view, the procedure of assisted reproduction will be simplified as much as possible.
Strengthening research activity and innovation.
Greece will become a benchmark for clinical research and drug redesign, attracting and utilizing Greek researchers for the benefit of the country.
Inclusion of people with disabilities in society through the use of their abilities.
In this direction, Greeks who themselves suffer from severe disability problems will be assigned to study and implement a plan that will lead to the complete removal of all psychological and structural barriers against people with disabilities.
DRUGS
The problem of substance dependence is a global phenomenon of social pathogenicity.
In Greece, the mainstream parties, although they can eradicate the phenomenon of drug trafficking from its source, they do not.
The aim of those in power and of the international system is for young people to find outlets for drugs through which they will be in constant and permanent inactivity, and
therefore manipulated and unresponsive.
The purpose of GOLDEN DAWN is the vigilance of the Greek Youth.
We propose:Creation of specialized open centres for counselling and guidance.
Dry rehabilitation centres according to the needs of each region.
Creation of a four-digit telephone number to which complaints about drug trafficking can be made.
Drug trafficking is made an offence with penalties that will force traffickers to leave the country immediately.
In the case of a merchant and a user, the merchant status will prevail.
Immediate arrest of drug dealers and exemplary punishment in Our aim is to treat users and reintegrate them directly into society.
HOUSING POLICY
Golden Dawn considers it the right of every Greek to be able to own a home, suitable for his and his family's needs, within a reasonable period of time and without having to dedicate decades of his life to paying disproportionate amounts of money, increased in a usurious way.
We propose:A nationwide housing programme, with housing complexes equipped with sufficient space to accommodate large families, elderly and disabled people,
environmentally friendly and with green space, at a
price slightly higher than the cost.
Green spaces will allow every family to cultivate a piece of land to which they will have a guaranteed right, in view of the historical phases we are going through, which are leading to the radicalisation of the serious crisis that already exists.
Design and construction of sustainable urban areas, with the services they need,
to replace those built after the civil war without the above conditions, derivatives of opportunism.
Credit facilities, through appropriate agreements with the banking system, for the purchase of a first home, with priority given to those with at least three children or disabled and elderly people.
It is considered unacceptable any tax, direct or indirect, on home ownership, as well as on the purchase of housing by the Greek family, with the necessary constitutional safeguarding of this principle.
NATIONAL IDENTITY
Golden Dawn considers the attack of the economy and culture of globalisation as the main danger facing nations, due to the deliberate and insidious process of erosion of the national identity and identity of peoples.
This attack uses the Trojan horse of illegal immigration.
This phenomenon reflects the worst aspects of Western civilization, as immigrants will become a new "reserve" of modern slaves, ready to accept wages and working conditions that are unacceptable for Greek workers.
Golden Dawn proposes a comprehensive draft law for the immediate solution of the illegal immigration problem and the final crackdown on the slave trade, which turns the illegal crossing of the Greek borders by foreign citizens into a separate offence.
Life imprisonment for all members of slave-trafficking rings arrested by the Greek authorities.
Unwavering defence of rules on the acquisition of citizenship based on "blood law" (jus sanguinis).
Immediately stop the current "flow policy"
Strengthen the control of our maritime borders.
Census of "non-community" foreigners in our territory and granting residence permits only to those who meet the requirements.
Identification of any crime committed by a foreigner; or alternatively, the
possibility for prisoners to serve their sentence in their country of origin, the
possibility of compulsory unpaid work in special detention areas, where work will be produced for the public sector.
Immediate removal of all immigrants who have committed crimes on Greek territory.
Crackdown on illegal trade by foreigners and strict tax control on remittances they send to their countries.
To stop the huge loss of revenue for the Greek state.
IT IS A NATIONAL NECESSITY : END ILLEGAL IMMIGRATION !
FAMILY CARE AND DEMOGRAPHIC POLICY
The demographic problem is a mortal danger for Hellenism.
Combined with massive illegal immigration, it means that in a few years we will be a minority in our own country.
Golden Dawn considers the state's duties to be the defence of life (from conception to death), the protection of the family as a fundamental unit of society, and support for the growth of the population of the Greek people.
The decline in the birth rate is a major contributor to the economic crisis and the ageing population.
The state will focus quickly and actively on achieving a doubling of the population growth rate, at least to T. F.R. 3, 5%.
The new tax measures of the coalition government hit the family, and are tangible proof of the ethnonationalism of the political system.
Golden Dawn proposes:
Repeal of Law 821 of 15/9/1978, which legalized abortion, and the introduction of heavy penalties for those who perform abortions.
Conduct an information campaign on the serious harm that abortion can cause to women's physical and mental health.
Abortions in Greece are 400,000 per year.
In other words, every year an entire city like Patras is destroyed.
Abortion is murder.
Husbands become child killers instead of parents because they serve decay and death instead of giving life.
Implementation of a programme of psychological and material assistance for the woman who does not intend to complete the pregnancy, a programme oriented towards the birth of the child and, if necessary, its supervised adoption by another Greek family.
A ban on practices that do not respect the sanctity of human life, such as human experimentation and the harvesting of human organs with a "beating heart".
For the purpose of demographic recovery we propose:
A one-time cash grant to every new Greek born.
Golden Dawn in 2013 drafted a Law for an 80% reduction in state subsidies to political parties.
The money saved from this action will be distributed to young Greek children.
For 2013 alone, the state would save €50 million.
Financial support for mothers who choose not to work so that they can look after their children themselves, and an increase in the subsidy for each newborn.
Priority to large families for buying or renting a house.
Promoting the model of the natural family.
Encouraging education for the respect and protection of life.
Legislative reform to ensure the maximum speed of approval of adoption procedures by Greek families for Greek children.
Joint custody of children in divorce cases to maintain balanced mental development of the children.
Implementation of a programme to involve older people in volunteering activities.
The elderly are becoming particularly useful to the nation under reconstruction, with their experienced social power.
The benefits for large families start from the 3rd child and will increase for each additional child.
NATIONAL DEFENCE - ARMED FORCES
According to the Constitution, the mission of the Armed Forces is to defend the national independence and territorial integrity of Greece, to secure its national territory and to make a decisive contribution to the achievement of the country's policy objectives.
For four decades, the Armed Forces of our country have been a field of political opportunism and divisive experimentation.
Only the outstanding professionalism, the tenacious self-sacrifice and the insurmountable ambition of the personnel of the Armed Forces have preserved their deterrent capacity and strength.
With the sovereign and strong state as its main objective, Greece must immediately undertake the following general institutional, functional and structural reforms:
Compulsory conscription of men and women (with the exception of mothers) at the age of 18 years and for 14 months, their insurance in an insurance institution and their participation in projects related to their mission only.
Women will fill non-combat positions (unless they request a voluntary transfer) and men will serve their entire term in combat units.
Nationalisation of the key Greek defence industries.
Restructure their Boards and re-employ their experienced staff.
Co-production is a prerequisite for the ratification of any agreement to purchase weapons systems.
Complete detachment of the permanent members of the Armed Forces from the parties and abolition of trade unionism.
The Minister and the Deputy Ministers of National Defence must come from the Armed Forces.
Abolition of the KYSEA and creation of the National Security Council (NSC), chaired by the President of the Hellenic Republic and composed of the President of the Government, the Ministers of Defence, Internal Security, Foreign Affairs, Interior and Finance, the Chairman of the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee of the Greek Parliament, the Heads of the Armed Forces, Army, Navy, Air Force, Police, Coast Guard - Greek Coast Guard, Fire Brigade and the Commander of the National Security Service.
Its main mission is the formulation of the National Security policy at home and abroad.
The FAC will also be responsible for crises at the level of Chiefs.
Immediate implementation of the "Common Defence Space" (DCA) between Greece and Cyprus, conducting joint exercises, co-acquisition/co-production/co-exploitation of weapons systems.
Change of the command structure of the Armed Forces, renaming of the General Staff, General Staff, General Staff, General Staff to: Armed Forces Headquarters, Army Headquarters, Navy Headquarters, Air Force Headquarters.
Reorganisation of the Staffs, formations and units, primarily based on the operational environment and potential threats, adopting flexibility, efficiency and saving resources and means.
Operation of multi-purpose and inter-branch camps within the territory.
Establishment of a system of admission to the productive schools of the Armed Forces, apart from the Panhellenic examinations, with the simultaneous reintroduction of gender as a basic requirement for admission.
Review and reorganise education structures and programmes, both basic and advanced.
Implementation of Postgraduate Programmes of Studies (MSP) in subjects of Military Science in the Production Schools and equation of ADISPO degrees with a postgraduate degree.
Re-establishment and operation of a military interdisciplinary Technical Works and Infrastructure Unit, for the purpose of technical works, environmental studies, maintenance of buildings, services and infrastructure of the Armed Forces.
The guarding of the borders (land and sea) will be the exclusive task and mission of the Armed Forces.
Establishment of a single pay scale for Armed Forces and Security Corps personnel based on rank, position of responsibility, education, marital status, "geography of service" and degree of readiness.  No pay grade in the public sector at large will exceed that of the Armed Forces and Security Forces in proportion to the above criteria.
Creation of a programme of service structures and functions in the Armed Forces with emphasis on the areas of Administration (housing, food, military supermarkets, telephony, military intranet, cafeterias), Personnel (staff advocate, reception office for transferees, staff service centres, training seminars) and Finance (insurance and low-interest loan programmes).
Focusing staff on their daily mission, free from the problems of everyday life.
Purchase of arms, equipment, services, etc. only after tendering and selection of the most advantageous offer in terms of cost-effectiveness. Strengthening of domestic companies producing military and non-military equipment, so that gradually the supply of the Armed Forces is made by domestic companies, resulting in an increase in jobs and the subsequent support of the means acquired.
Any purchase from abroad should be accompanied by compensatory benefits, acquisition of know-how, the possibility of co-production and a clear legal regime in case of inconsistent supply.
Consolidation of the Armed Forces and Security Corps Share Funds following an actuarial and sustainability study.
Increase in contributions to the new fund from armament projects, while reducing staff contributions.
Reassessment of the movable and immovable property of the Armed Forces and its use for the benefit of the new fund.
Strengthening links between the e.u. strengthening of the ties between retired and ex-servicemen through the establishment of a "Retired and Reserve Week" programme, in cooperation with the local Institutional Retired and Reserve Associations.
Establishment of a Corps of Inspectors - Chartered Accountants common to all three Sectors with the mission to investigate financial crimes mainly in armament programmes and all kinds of expenditure.
PUBLIC CLASS
Re-establishment of the Gendarmerie and creation of a new Special Unit of the Hellenic Police with heavy offensive weaponry to deal with new crime phenomena.
Withdrawing police officers from clerical services and filling these posts by transferring surplus officers from the wider public sector.
All officers in combat.
Abolition of the unnecessary detention of persons.
Re-establishment of the Ministry of Public Order with a Minister who will necessarily come from the ranks of combat officers.
Establishment of a specific offence for offences that dismantle social cohesion and destroy the national fabric, and stricter penalties for sworn public officials and politicians.
Participation of the Minister and the Chiefs of Police and Fire Brigades in the National Security Council (NSC).
Interconnection of the personnel of the Hellenic Armed Forces, the Gendarmerie and the Police with the Administrative Care structures of the Armed Forces.
Activation of Law 4029/2011 "On auxiliary coast guard".
New operational planning for the defence of the EEZ.
Upgrading repair bases and facilities.
Supply of personal business equipment.
JUSTICE-NATIONAL EDUCATION - ORTHODOXY
JUSTICE: Adoption of a new Criminal Code containing all the subsequent amendments in a codified form.
Simplifying procedures, reducing the number of hearings and encouraging recourse to arbitration in the presence of counsel.
Abolition of the perversely conceived and misused "university asylum", and a ban on party factions.
NATIONAL EDUCATION: Emphasis on Greek History.
Teaching of ancient Greek language and literature at all educational levels.
Compulsory sports education for Greek youth, with the choice of individual or team sports from the first grades.
Direct access to decent sports stadiums for all Greeks.
Subsidies to municipal sports organisations with the aim of fostering a competitive spirit.
Practical support of the championship, which today has unfortunately been captured by mercenary "Greekized" foreigners.
ORTHODOXY: Golden Dawn opposes the separation of Church and State.
It seeks to restore the authority of the Church and the purification of the clergy from all decadent and internationalist elements.
Non-religion only for those doctrines that do not violate the Greek Tradition and History and do not damage the strength of the Nation.
Orthodoxy, reborn and Greek, once again a pioneer in the struggles of the Nation.
Golden Dawn recognizes in the Greek Orthodox Christian doctrine a point of reference inherently incompatible with any kind of organizations or secret societies that exert influence on politics, the national and international economy or the practice of occult and anti-Christian practices.
FOR THE GOLDEN DAWN OF HELLENISM
The only way for Greece to survive as a nation state is for Golden Dawn to prevail.
Liberals seek the dissolution of the nation state through economic enslavement and leftists through the loss of our national identity.
Golden Dawn is a purely Greek political phenomenon.
It has nothing to do with other states and historical periods.
It is the Greek People's Nationalist Movement, on the success of which our survival as an independent nation-state will depend.
Our long struggle is still at its beginning and has ahead of it a hard and uphill road, like the Herculean road of Virtue.
But at the end of this road, in the distance of our horizon, a great and powerful Greece is rising, a new Golden Dawn of Hellenism.
Only a strong popular nationalist movement can stop the selling out of Greece.
Only if the forces of NATIONAL RESISTANCE come together under the banner of NATIONALISM, then and ONLY then will there be Greece in the Future.
LET THOSE WHO ARE ALIVE STAND WITH US IN THE STRUGGLE!
Now more than ever before, the rapid process of Hellenic synthesis is required, where the historical past - cultural production - human material and the European dimension of Hellenism will be articulated and form an authentic creative set of values.
THE DILEMMA IS CLEAR: NATIONALISM OR ENSLAVEMENT!
It is against the flight of fugitives, the thuggishness and the lust for pleasure which weaken the character, loosen the will, strangle and monopolize the mental life of the People.
Against the internationalist anti-patriots.
For the rebirth of the Greek community miracle.
FOR NATIONAL REGENERATION AND SOCIAL RECONSTRUCTION!
