Greece returns to normality
After 5 years of tough fiscal adjustment measures, two Memoranda of Understanding and an equal number of loans totalling 240 billion. and an
unprecedented €185 billion reduction of public debt in net present value (i.e. 85% of GDP),
Greece has managed to address the accumulated imbalances in its economy: it
has managed to reverse the "unstoppable bleeding" of its twin deficits - fiscal and current account deficits - that led to the 2009 crisis.
At a huge cost to citizens, in terms of incomes and employment, but incomparably less than the cost of a disorderly default.
Greece is returning.
It is returning to the Markets, to positive growth rates, it is returning to "normality".
But this does not mean a return to "yesterday" and the pathologies that led to the crisis.
It means turning the first positive signs of recovery into a truly sustainable exit from the crisis.
To a sustainable, productive and not consumerist growth that creates new, stable and decent jobs.
Boosting employment, creating new jobs is our main objective.
A development that does not undermine the future of the many, serving the present of the few.
A development that is compatible and creates synergies with Europe's strategic development axes.
Strengthened and reinforced by improving Europe's competitiveness, based on research, technology, innovation
and not on a lost race to reduce social and labour rights and wages.
There is no room for new measures along these lines.
A development that serves the general interest and creates prospects for the future.
This will go through the broadening of the productive base and the increase in productivity and competitiveness of the economy,
without being undermined by the creation of new debts
and the loss of fiscal control.
So now is the time to rebuild the economy.
Now the foundations are being laid for the years to come.
Now is the time for major decisions on the functioning of the state, of the institutions.
Now is the time for a new NATIONAL SOCIAL AGREEMENT that will mobilize all the living and productive forces of the country to achieve these goals.
All the forces of the nation, all the forces of the region, all ages.
Our strategy for developmentThe development vision for Greece at the end of the second decade of the 21st century is to ensure sustainable growth,
which ensures high levels of employment and social well-being for citizens,
not only for the present generation but also for future generations.
The recovery of the economy is now visible.
On us depends its dynamics, the geometric improvement of its rhythm.
At the same time, important reforms have already been made at the level of economic governance of the European Union and the Eurozone
, with much more rigorous, consistent and coherent supervision not only in the fiscal
but also in the financial and broader economic field.
An improved European framework for market regulation and supervision,
such as the launch of the Banking Union,
will help remove distortions in the fragmented financial sector,
enhance its credibility
and smooth the flow of liquidity and finance to the real economy.
The new European environment entails increased responsibilities,
but also includes great opportunities for the Greek economy and society, which must be fully exploited.
A key priority in the immediate future is the implementation of the Greece 2020 Strategy - in the context of the Europe 2020 Strategy -
by promoting growth policies that create the conditions for a more competitive economy with more jobs.
The aim is for the sectors that will be the drivers of growth in the coming years to make a significant contribution to employment, innovation and energy sustainability.
In order to achieve sustainable growth, i.e. income growth without being undermined in the future by excessive debts or fiscal derailments, it
must necessarily go through the path of broadening the productive base
and increasing the productivity/competitiveness of the economy.
This means a shift of resources (human and material) from the protected inward-looking (state and state-owned) sector of the economy
to the sector of the economy exposed to international competition (export and import substitution).
To achieve this shift, the state must act "smart"
by strengthening the appropriate tools to "assist" the mechanisms available in the money and capital markets
and the regulatory framework for the reception and development of innovative entrepreneurship.
It is therefore obvious that a new model of production must be formed, which will lead the country to growth and prosperity, leaving behind the extraordinary restrictive policies of the memoranda.
Despite the neoliberal effort to denigrate the public sphere
and the ideological insistence on the immediate withdrawal of the state from the market,
we should not forget that any development model is, by definition, constituted by the public policies
that support and respect the initiatives of the market and the private sector.
Indeed, the regulatory and guaranteeing role of the state, public supervision and state control, in the exploitation of the production model,
driven by the dialogue between the social partners and the productive actors,
guarantees the balanced and effective application of the appropriate administrative instruments for the achievement of development objectives.
The decisive role of the state in both the design and the implementation of the new productive model is highlighted, in a different way, in all three critical policy sections of our new national development model,
which are:Investment policy,
competition policy
and the policy of utilisation of public assets.
The new productive - development model is based on the country's obvious comparative advantages and its endogenous resources: land and people.
Land means agricultural production, spatial planning, environment, tourism, sea, fisheries, shipping, infrastructure, forests and mountain areas, landscape, culture, mineral wealth, etc.
People means education and training, skills, intellectual capital, research, innovation, entrepreneurship and especially labour, etc.
Political stability and social consensus - the role of the Constitution Political stability, on which the necessary social cohesion and consensus is based, is the obvious first condition for economic growth.
It creates the conditions for the success of reforms, for institutional stability and legal certainty, for a favourable investment climate.
The new political reality created in the environment of the economic crisis, despite the tensions, provided the necessary background for political understanding and governments of national necessity.
But political stability must be preserved in the face of political acrimony and the phenomena of divisive politics:
Strengthening institutions of social consultation and citizen participation.
A climate of political consensus and understanding of the constitutional arc on issues of national strategy, rights, but also in critical areas such as education, health and tax policy.
Only in such a climate of responsibility and consensus can the process of revising the Constitution make sense.
Otherwise, we risk turning the Constitution from a guarantee of national unity into a field of petty partisan confrontation and institutional demagoguery.
PASOK organised a scientific conference on the revision of the Constitution in February 2013 and presented its proposals on 24 July 2013, the first and in an unannounced (not election) year.
What is important, however, is the formation of a political and social climate that allows for a revisionist consensus,
as the Constitution itself provides for, requiring an increased majority.
The review process must therefore be used as a lever for political initiatives that reunite the nation and society, which due to the crisis was taught on the wrong basis under the pressure of easy "anti-memorandum" demagogy,
which loses its object with the exit from the crisis and the memorandum.
Macroeconomic Framework - Fiscal Balance Achieving the fiscal targets allows Greece not only to have sustainable debt, but to be viable, competitive and credible as a national economy.
And at the same time it reinforces the continuous negotiation with our partners,
from the recognition of the great sacrifices of the Greek people,
to the acceptance that must prevail in the EU,
for the immediate cessation of the vicious cycle of recession and unemployment.
We note, however, that the new framework of EU surveillance rules with the requirement for high primary surpluses
and the non-approval of high value-added spending for DEVELOPMENT, creates problems for countries like Greece.
As well as the EU monetary and macroeconomic policy framework, it acts as an additional obstacle to the restoration of fiscal balances (deflation, differences in the cost of money, etc.)
and increases the social cost of fiscal balancing.
This is why a change of balance in Europe is necessary
and why it is necessary to strengthen policies that enhance its growth and competitiveness.
The proposals of the EPP, of the European Socialists and Democrats, in which PASOK and through it, the ELA, are the basis for a new European narrative
that brings back to the fore the Europe of democracy, rights, quality, innovation, innovation, the social state, employment, growth.
Tax policyRestoring the level of employment is the best medicine for improving our country's fiscal position.
It provides a substantial response to the issue of both fiscal and insurance revenues.
This is why tax policy must emphasise the promotion of sustainable investment projects, the
creation of new jobs, the
increase of savings
and national wealth.
The aim is now to gradually reduce the tax burden in the context of proportionality
and to highlight both the developmental
and social face of a stable and simple tax system.
Based on the constraints of the Greek economy and on the basis of what is needed to ensure fiscal balance
the contribution of the taxpayer, whether a natural or legal person and according to his or her actual means,
the new tax policy, part of our country's new development strategy, must be used as a tool:
encouraging investment - domestic and foreign direct investment
promoting targeted activities and the production of goods and services in international demand by helping to move public and private resources from old uncompetitive to new competitive sectors.
To achieve these objectives, tax policy must be stable, trustworthy and effective.
For the implementation of new investments
and job creation, an aggressive and targeted, not horizontal, tax policy will be adopted.
Effective Public AdministrationThe country's exit from the crisis and its developmental reconstruction requires bold changes in the state and administration.
The state has already become significantly smaller as a percentage of public expenditure in relation to GDP.
The aim is to become more efficient and effective in the services it provides.
A state small in bureaucracy,
but strong in health, education and security.
The main objectives are to consolidate accountability, meritocracy, strengthen administrative coherence and simplify procedures.
We must make the public administration a partner in the effort for a new productive model.
The necessary institutional interventions are based on the following axes:A small, flexible, citizen and business-friendly state.
The fight against bureaucracy
and the simplification of administrative procedures is a constant challenge for the administration.
The frontline in this effort is e-government, through the coordination and development of digital administration actions
and the interoperability of public information systems.
Communication, synergies and rational management of human resources in the public sector.
The state is called upon to address needs and solve problems of varying intensity and acuity.
At the same time, the establishment of a permanent mobility mechanism - decoupled from suspensions and redundancies - will allow the optimal use of existing resources
and the immediate response to problems where they are identified.
Public service excellence.
The announced goal of increasing efficiency and effectiveness requires a high level of civil servants.
The necessary institutional interventions in this direction include the continuous, effective evaluation of public servants, the
promotion to positions of responsibility based on their essential qualifications and abilities,
the implementation of target setting,
the linking of the salary scale with performance,
and finally, through the above, the cultivation of a strong sense of mission among public servants.
Strengthening Institutions - Transparency - Functioning of Justice Transparency, accountability and the strengthening of the institutions of the rule of law are a check on the undermining of democracy and political life.
The profound changes in the political system and the political and constitutional institutions that we have presented for a long time, the
fight against corruption,
the full respect of citizens' rights,
the denial of discrimination,
are elements that strengthen the basis for healthy economic growth.
The justice system is a key element in the development policy of any modern country.
Our aim is to strengthen the business and economic environment through: the swift resolution of investment disputes and labour disputes etc.;
the effective fight against corruption and the fight against crime;
equal access to justice services
and avoiding the use of the judicial system as a means of unfair competition.
To this end we contribute:a) Reforming the institutional framework (codes) and adapting them to the new social and economic realities.
b) Strengthening alternative dispute resolution methods (mediation, criminal negotiation).
c) Implementation of the e-Justice strategy.
Regulatory framework - Competition Ensuring healthy and undistorted competition in the market is a top priority in order to encourage healthy and productive business initiative and to protect consumers.
To this end we aim to:a) The legislative removal of all administrative barriers that distort markets and distort competition.
Unnecessary licensing in complex and inefficient control procedures,
anachronistic administrative restrictions will be replaced with a modern and flexible framework that strengthens healthy competition.
b) Restoring the role of the Competition Commission as an independent authority,
so that it can examine "merger" cases as quickly as possible
and complete its investigations into the functioning of all sectors and industries in the market.
The new regulation of the "markets" becomes imperative,
especially since the privatization of public enterprises is being promoted
and efficient competition must be ensured without creating new monopolistic situations.
Regional policy The unsatisfactory performance of regional policies despite the significant decentralisation of the state
and ultimately the imbalance between the centre and the region were factors that exacerbated the country's crisis.
Being a European country with specific characteristics,
we are adopting the challenge of a Europe of the Regions as our key national challenge for 2020.
We are transferring the necessary resources to the regions and focusing on targeted and smart policies,
with cooperation BETWEEN our REGIONS to implement common policies based on common characteristics.
We promote special regional planning for the island, mountain, lowland and peri-urban country, in
order to highlight common advantages
and plan the necessary synergies in all critical sectors.
We seek for each Region to highlight its own productive identity, to be
supported appropriately and to become a leader in one or more sectors of development.
We promote cooperation with other EU regions and especially with neighbouring countries through actions for integrated development objectives.
We promote cooperation between the PUBLIC and PRIVATE SECTORS with synergies, research, innovation, primary sector, manufacturing, industry, tourism,
so that regional development can move away from the temptation of localism.
Spatial planning - Environmental policy - Climate changeThe effective management of liquid and solid waste, the
construction of the necessary networks,
the sustainable management of the country's water resources,
with a total budget of more than €3.0 billion in the coming years,
will create more than 25,000 new jobs
and improve the quality of life of citizens.
The brave urban and spatial reconstruction of all the Regions and urban complexes of the country,
through the Regional Spatial Plans, the Regulatory Plans, the Urban and Spatial Planning Institutional Reform,
will shape the road map of spatial development of the entire national territory.
The implementation of the National Cadastre, with a total budget of more than €600 million by 2020,
will attract investors and is expected to create more than 12,000 jobs during its development,
while creating a complete and legally secure development background for the exploitation of public and private property.
The new National System of Nature Protection, for 30% of the country's territory, with the attraction of public and private investments,
with the use of own resources,
is the new sustainable pillar of the country's modern production model,
with expected significant public revenues
and the creation of up to 10,000 jobs.
Combating Social Inequalities - Social CohesionIn recent years, we have taken - due to the crisis - forced decisions and measures that have created problems for large groups of the population,
while significantly increasing the major issue of unemployment.
It is time to focus on measures that restore Social Cohesion,
reduce inequalities,
gradually redress injustices,
starting with the most vulnerable and weakest categories of the population.
In post-crisis Greece, in Greece of Growth, everyone must participate.
Of course the next day cannot be the same as the one that led us into the crisis.
We need a new welfare state, which is a component of Growth.
And this means that resources and actions from the surplus created will be directed in a modern and effective way and choices,
prioritising those in greatest need.
Our priorities are:Establishing a decent standard of living for all, with all that this implies in terms of services and income for vulnerable groups.
In cooperation with the TA, a framework is being developed that creates a sense of security for the citizen to ensure basic goods (such as shelter, heating, food, access to education, to the doctor, to the hospital)
but also aims at reintegration.
The reform and strengthening of the support framework for people with disabilities and their families,
with emphasis on ensuring access and participation of people with disabilities,
in work if the form of disability allows it,
in education,
in all economic, social and cultural activities.
The redesign and promotion of the reform of the National Health System with efficient-professional management of resources,
continuous evaluation of structures and services offered in a universal, decentralized, efficient system.
Upgrading of Primary Health Care with decentralized development,
access points and services for citizens in each Municipality and Municipal District.
Develop and expand the new home care programme
that creates new sustainable jobs and quality services.
Supporting the social security system with new resources from the reduction of unemployment, the
exploitation of the country's mineral wealth and the strengthening of collectability by unifying control mechanisms
and utilising modern means of organisation and operation.
Ensure the long-term sustainability of the Funds and complete the consolidation.
Improving the legislative framework for the development of supplementary occupational benefit funds, which should be the second strong pillar of insurance.
Policies to support the unemployed and boost employment.a) Measures to support the unemployed:Full coverage of health care for themselves and their families
Extension of the conditions for the payment of long-term unemployment benefit to an additional 100,000 people
Improvement of the framework for granting unemployment benefit to self-employed persons who cease their activity.
b) Direct employment support policies
Linking training programmes to specific sectors in demand by enterprises.
Further reduction of non-wage costs targeted at job-creating enterprises.
Changing the framework for the use of agricultural land and incentives for young farmers.
Development of the Social Economy with tax incentives for Social Cooperative Enterprises,
and funding in the context of supporting youth entrepreneurship.
Repeating the Public Benefit Labour Programme for 50,000 unemployed people, doubling this programme
and extending the labour market entry programme for 150,000 additional unemployed people, with a focus on young people up to 29 years of age.
Human Resources - Education The new development model has as its cornerstone the new stable education system, without the rigidities of the past, based on the National Consensus.
Our priorities are:a) The upgrading of the Technical Lyceum, the New General Lyceum and the new system of access to higher education.
b) The evaluation of teachers and educational work and the training of Human Resources.
c) The development of the Unified National Strategic Plan for research and innovation.
d) The completion of the reform of higher education, which is a source of intellectual wealth, innovation and jobs.
Human Resources - Labour Relations The new productive model is based on a highly skilled human resource and a NEW REGULATION in labour relations.
It is clear that labour market flexibility must go hand in hand with worker security.
For us, the labour market needs rules that strengthen the role of consultation of the social partners,
create a humane working environment,
ensure healthy competition between companies with respect for the worker.
That is why "logics" of free collective dismissals, the implementation of the lockout
and the reduction of workers' and trade union rights will not be accepted.
Our priority in this area is:The reintroduction, in a new framework, of the institution of free collective bargaining at all levels
and the universality in the implementation of agreements.
Collective bargaining that combines the improvement of the worker's life with the competitive position of the company in the economy.
The obligation in every employer's undertaking to consult with employees on changes to working conditions and employment.
Investment policyThe realisation of investment, especially foreign and direct investment, in our national economy was a prerequisite for the fiscal adjustment that is now being completed.
It marks the end of the financial crisis, as it creates new jobs
and on the other hand, it secures valuable private resources (capital, technology, know-how, etc.) which are hard to find at the present time.
An effective means for attracting investment in our national economy today is the drastic reduction of bureaucratic obstacles to business activity,
with the peak being the licensing procedures.
However, the withdrawal of the state from the excessive and unnecessary administrative supervision of private investment activity must be combined with the strengthening of the public administration
through the Public Investment Programme (PIP).
Strengthening the MFF, e.g. to four percent (4%) of GDP, implies substantial support for private investment,
its activation as a multiplier
and effective use of its counter-cyclical function.
Besides, there is no safer guarantee for attracting private investors than the implementation of a strong Public Investment Programme by the state itself.
The country has valuable resources for the coming years:- the current NSRF is completed
- the new NSRF begins
- the new CAP begins
- the Institute for Development with an emphasis on SMEs begins to operate
- the recapitalised banking system turns to the real economy,
providing liquidity to businesses,
restructuring of businesses,
sustainable investments at all levels
The roads, Hellenikon, hydrocarbon exploration are three tangible optimistic examples.
Privatisations a) The easy access to capital markets for the public sector in the past resulted in the abandonment or under-utilisation of its vast assets.
The squandering of this public property, especially in the current period of unprecedented economic crisis, is giving way to its profitable, prudent and transparent use.
The new development model includes the detailed registration, demarcation and the most effective use of public property.
The conduct of open international tendering procedures
and the possibility of public-private partnerships
provide the necessary legal and economic techniques for the immediate, efficient and transparent use of public assets.
The momentum created by the start of the exploitation of the Greek State's large assets is a growth catalyst for the national economy.
Combined with some significant private investment, it will facilitate the return to growth.
Indeed, it has nothing to do with policies of rushing to sell off public assets to meet fiscal obligations.
b) The new development model maintains public regulatory control over public enterprises that ensure the production and circulation of vital goods.
In particular, it guarantees the provision of health and education services, public security and social security coverage by a reliable public benefit system.
Capital Markets - Banking System - InfrastructureThe recent exit of Greece to the markets -which led to a significant deceleration of Greek government bond yields-
is expected to have a positive impact on the return of deposits to the banking system.
At the same time, the now recapitalised Greek banks are regaining access to the international capital markets,
while an increasing number of large Greek companies are also issuing corporate bonds.
Banks now have the ability to provide substantial financing to healthy Greek businesses,
but also to meet the needs of Greek households (housing loans),
contributing to the revival of the economy
and the restoration of its liquidity.
The relaunch of major road axes, as well as
larger small-scale public works,
are helping to restart the economy,
create jobs
and attract foreign investment.
The new NSRF opens up new possibilities.
Road projects, rail infrastructure, telecommunications, digital and internet infrastructure, waste management, etc.
These are just some of the areas of public investment and public-private partnerships in infrastructure with a high multiplier contribution to GDP growth
and employment, in line with the planning already announced as a framework.
Primary sector crop production, livestock farming, fisheriesThe primary sector (crop production, livestock farming, fisheries) in combination with the food industry is the main pillar of the Greek productive economy.
It includes an integrated chain of economic activity - production, processing, marketing and export -
that has managed to keep its productive potential active during the crisis.
The increase in employment in rural areas and the steady growth of exports in the period 2010-2013 are indicative of the dynamism of Greek agriculture and fisheries.
It is one of the few sectors, like tourism, that have the potential to contribute NOW and IN ACTION with measurable results to the country's development.
Through the sustainable management of natural resources, the
full exploitation of its productive potential, the
support of research and innovation, the
encouragement of partnerships
and with the key tool of the guaranteed liquidity of €3 billion per year (€20 billion in total) from the resources of the new CAP,
our strategy until 2021 is:Increasing the participation of the primary sector in the country's GDP
from 3-4% today to 6-8% with the agri-food sector at the forefront
Increasing employment in the primary sector by more than 10% with opportunities for the entry of new farmers, entrepreneurs and scientists
Transition from a low-cost production to a production of high quality & certified Greek products
Creation of Coordination Centres for quality national products (feta, olives, fish, fresh & processed fruits, tobacco, cotton, etc.etc.),
with the aim of increasing agricultural exports to 20 billion €
The creation of protection and income security from damage by protecting production from the risks of climate change.
Tourism Tourism development is the most credible opportunity to overcome the crisis.
It is an immediate and certain development solution for our country.
The development of tourism leads to a strong and competitive economy, creates income and new jobs.
Furthermore, it creates opportunities for growth for other related sectors such as transport, trade, catering, so that
the benefits of tourism have an overall impact on the country's economy.
In our new strategic plan by 2020 tourism can exceed 24 million arrivals with a per capita expenditure of about 800 euros,
i.e. generate 18-20 million euros annually and about 8 additional points in the country's GDP.
To achieve this objective, the following are required:A) Development of special forms of tourism aimed at attracting visitors throughout the year.
In particular, emphasis is placed on the development of maritime, religious, conference, ecological, cultural, medical, spa, elderly tourism, etc.
B) Final resolution of the Schengen visa issue in a difficult European framework.
C) Programme to support tourism infrastructure financed by NSRF, PPP and private equity.
D) Synergies between the primary sector and tourism.
The new development model for tourism requires synergies between the primary sector (agriculture-livestock-fisheries) and tourism (gastronomy) in
order to achieve a shift towards quality.
The contribution of tourism to employment is particularly important since several professions are directly and indirectly affected by the development of tourism.
In 2013, 737,000 people were employed in tourism,
while the target for 2021 is to employ around 1,000,000 people (36% increase).
Factors that will influence the growth of employment in tourism are a) the increase of tourism investments
b) the development of special forms of tourism in order to extend the tourist season
c) the support of tourism enterprises e.g. subsidies for insurance contributions
d) the upgrading of human resources employed in tourism
in order to adapt to the new requirements of the tourism market
(upgrading of tourism education and training).
Energy - Mineral WealthWe are aiming at an ambitious strategic plan on the basis of which the country will proceed in the coming years, with targets:
- reducing its energy dependence
and its emergence as an energy hub for the wider region and the entire EU.
- the implementation of infrastructures such as the international gas pipelines TAP (Caspian Sea, Greece, Italy), EastMed (Cyprus, Crete, mainland Greece), ABC (Aegean-Baltic corridor, from Greece to Poland, using interconnectors)
and the LNG or LNG terminals (Revithoussa, Alexandroupoli, Kavala),
- the exploitation of national hydrocarbon deposits on land and at sea, as well as other mineral wealth,
- drastically reducing the rate of energy poverty,
through energy upgrade programmes for middle and low income housing,
- the extension of the Social Household Tariff from the current 550,000 families to over 700,000,
- the rational development of all renewable energy sources; v
- the development of competition, v
with a view to reducing electricity prices
and improve the competitiveness of the Greek productive base,v
- the full electrical interconnection of the islands with the mainland; v
- the implementation of Smart Metering and Energy Saving Systems in all households,
- the expansion of the use of Natural Gas in all regions of the country,
by extending the national network and implementing decentralised distribution systems.
The country's mineral wealth and the large metal and building materials industries are expected to be a key factor in the country's new development model.
The energy upgrade of the country's existing stock of 8,000,000 buildings is the major sustainable and environmentally friendly developmental strategy for the coming years.
and economic challenge to the metal and building materials industry in the country,
which is expected to create thousands of new jobs in the construction sector.
These uphill actions will include the first houses, 200,000 public buildings and large commercial spaces.
We expect the creation of more than 30,000 new jobs from the more than €3 billion in
total to be invested in energy production and saving in the next programming period.
Manufacturing - SMEs - Industrial Policy The targeting (qualitative and quantitative targets) of the Strategic Planning for Industrial Development and Competitiveness 2014-2020 is linked and consistent with the productive, economic and social needs of the country
and in particular with the change of the production model: the regeneration of the productive base,
its dynamic participation in economic growth and the creation of stable and permanent employment.
At the same time, it must contribute to meeting the objectives set at European level, in particular in the context of the EU's industrial policy for 2020.
The basic outline of the strategic, qualitative and quantitative objectives includes:a) halting the downward trend and stabilising industrial production
and employment through actions and initiatives to support competitiveness (especially in regions in crisis),
in order to cope with the difficulties of the recession
and to stabilise or even improve its performance above the current levels of 9% of its share in the country's GDP.
b) The creation of a friendly business environment that supports and enhances the attraction of new investments,
the development of small and medium-sized enterprises and industrial activity and entrepreneurship in the manufacturing sectors
and in particular one that introduces innovation into its activity,
exploiting domestic resources and competitive advantages, and enhancing extroversion and exports.
The targets in this case should be linked in the coming years to a gradual increase in the number of new manufacturing enterprises by 25,000-27,000
and employment by around 150,000 new direct jobs
and another 90,000 or more indirect posts by 2020.
c) The strengthening-support of investment initiatives undertaken by manufacturing enterprises of all sizes (large, medium, small and micro)
and investors, in existing and new activities in the secondary sector
and its associated services, with specific characteristics, within the above-mentioned framework.
Transport In the context of the strong growth of the supply chain sector worldwide, our country is given the opportunity to exploit its advantageous position
and make the supply chain market a driver of growth of the national economy.
With better organisation and management of the supply chain, goods will be stored
and moved more safely, quickly and at lower cost.
For all this to happen, a series of actions and incentives will have to take place - tax incentives,
infrastructure improvements, the creation of a network of freight terminals.
E-commerceThe promotion of e-commerce creates new opportunities and develops small and medium-sized enterprises.
It promotes transparency and reliability in e-commerce, with the
ultimate aim of enhancing online shopping
and, by extension, competitiveness in the market as a whole.
The State should support the e-commerce sector through various actions, such as the following:ω
Supporting small and medium-sized enterprises for their activity in the field of e-business,
with emphasis on competitive Greek products, exports, innovative actions and exploitation of business opportunities.
Advisory and educational actions and the creation of a guide which will provide basic instructions and advice to businesses for the development and operation of e-commerce;
iii. Actions to enhance consumer confidence in e-commerce, such as the certification of e-shops by trustworthy bodies.
Maritime and island policy PASOK aims to strengthen the competitiveness of Greek shipping, the continuous training and economic upgrading of the maritime workforce, the
attraction of young people to the maritime profession,
the regeneration of the shipbuilding and repair industry,
marine technology,
innovation, entrepreneurship
and marine tourism,
with respect for people and the environment.
The implementation of incentives to further attract shipping companies to establish themselves in Piraeus, in
order to make it an international shipping centre and to promote clusters,
should be combined with policies to enhance employment and training, both for seafarers and
those employed ashore, as
a result of consultation with the maritime community.
The immediate adoption of policies that will ensure "equivalent rights" for islanders in terms of living and employment,
with those of the people of continental Europe is our core commitment.
It is now imperative to radically redefine and redesign the institutional framework for shipping.
The integration of port systems based on the European operating model is a priority,
maintaining the public character of ports (majority of share capital in the public sector, local authorities, chambers of commerce), with the existence of a Port Authority,
attracting private investment through concession contracts for sectors and activities (port operators), as well as
ensuring their competitive operation through supervision by an independent authority.
Finally, we favour the implementation of integrated maritime policies,
building on our strong maritime and shipping tradition in all its forms, as well as on
the potential of "blue growth".
Pharmaceutical industryStrengthening the sector by promoting research and development activities in the production of generic and other export-oriented preparations.
High-quality natural cosmetics and aromatic plants, which are a basic wealth of the Greek flora, are also areas of great development potential.
