In the elections of October 4, SYRIZA calls for vigilance, rallying and participation of all those who want to resist the degradation of our political life, the brutal attack on human dignity, the condemnation of millions of people to poverty and destitution, the "ban" they want to impose on young people to hope and even dream.
We invite you to participate even though we are well aware that many times we have made you angry, we have hurt you, we have damaged our image.
But we, drawing our strength from the great history of the Left with its good and bad moments, but also from the undeniably selfless contribution of all of us, have overcome the problems.
And we continue to defend the unity and autonomy of the Radical Left against any plan to strengthen the two-party system at its expense.
We will repel the concerted attack launched by political and economic forces against SYRIZA, because it has managed to disturb the calm waters of the political system and become "dangerous" for the two-party system.
Our struggles for Article 16, our participation in the youth struggles in December, our unwavering stance in Parliament, our oppositional action against the South-West, our clear demarcation from the past and present of PASOK, our clash with the big interests and our constant reference to the socially weak, the unemployed, the young, were not isolated or random choices.
It is our identity.
Early elections are not held because the Southwest "wanted" them or PASOK "asked" for them.
They were imposed by the pressures of powerful business interests in Greece, Europe, the US, and other extra-institutional centres, which demand here and now more "bold reforms" at the expense of labour rights and the welfare state, since the current government is now completely unable to implement such a plan.
This plan, under the pretext of the economic crisis, aims to impose a new unprecedented attack on the economically and socially weaker strata, on four main fronts:
Fiscal discipline with the lever to exert even more income and tax pressure on the workers, as well as the restriction of social spending
The complete dismantling of labour relations, with a rise in unemployment and underemployment
The intensification of authoritarianism with the restriction of individual trade union rights
and civil rights
The destruction of the environment in the name of a development that commodifies public land.
With the unprecedented unpopular measures announced by the Prime Minister in Thessaloniki, an ultra-conservative agenda was formed, which in fact gradually and in more elaborate ways, is being wooed by PASOK.
This neoliberal policy that has been implemented all these years in Greece and Europe is responsible for the crisis that has been created, with the victims being the low economic strata.
If this policy is not reversed, the conditions for the next economic crisis will certainly be created, which will make the position of workers even more painful, increase insecurity, further reduce income, and create new armies of unemployed, especially among young people and women.
The economic crisis finds women more vulnerable, as second-class citizens.
Poverty hits them harder, as the Greek and global figures show.
It is also easier to draw from them a flexible and cheap labour force.
In this direction, conservative notions are exploited that consider women as dependent, second-class citizens destined for domestic rather than "regular" work, with their income playing a merely supplementary role in a family.
In the context of uninsured work, women are also recruited as unpaid members of family businesses.
In these economic and political conditions, violence against women is on an unprecedented upsurge, while support institutions are only on paper.
THE PLANS OF THE CAPITAL AND THE TWO-PARTY SYSTEM CAN BE OVERTURNED
SYRIZA asks for the vote of the citizens with the conviction that these plans must be opposed by the maximum possible social and political resistance, and that these plans can and must be overturned.
Not only because they lead to deeper social inequalities
but also because, by degrading work and the environment, they destroy the future and the basis for a meaningful and sustainable recovery for employment, incomes, production and investment.
In this way, long-term austerity and long-term high unemployment are presented as the most likely scenario, but if and when there is a recovery, it will only be a break until the next crisis.
We are fully aware that the necessary resistance and the overthrow of the conservative plans require not only the common united action that SYRIZA has as its central objective, but also an alternative political plan and the corresponding programme for the overthrow of the current political correlations.
SYRIZA will use its electoral power to make its political support to social struggles more effective, but also to give impetus to the formation of an alternative plan, refusing to be trapped in scenarios of centre-left or ecumenical governments that aim to perpetuate the current system.
The strengthening of SYRIZA means not only the weakening of the two traditional parties of power and the PLO, but mainly the change of political correlations, and the strengthening of the Left that resists, that demands, that puts forward concrete proposals to protect society from the crisis.
The strengthening of SYRIZA marks, already today and for the future, a new orientation that will bring to the centre the needs of society and workers,
the active protection of the environment, the
defence of democracy, and the
creation of a society of free and equal citizens, men and women, Greeks and foreigners.
The rapid collapse of the Karamanlis government's policies enabled PASOK to recover, without revealing its real programmatic intentions.
PASOK is a prisoner of its own period of government during which it promoted neoliberalism in every aspect of the economic and social life of the country.
It is in the thrall of the big economic interests with which it has close links.
It is bound by the central guidelines of the "Grand Alliance" of conservatives and social democrats, which governs the European Union.
That is why it does not want the policy of privatisation, the abolition of labour protection, the demolition of the welfare state and police arbitrariness to be reversed.
It does not want and cannot implement a pro-people policy.
But in the face of the thirst to regain governmental power, he makes announcements that are deliberately vague, contradictory and contradictory.
The two parties, New Democracy and PASOK, agree that Greece should actively participate in the fake "war against terrorism", as well as in NATO campaigns, such as the one currently being waged in the slaughterhouse of Afghanistan.
They agree on the immense amount of military expenditure, which is not imposed by Greece's defence needs, but by the plans of the NATO military rulers.
In this context, the strengthening of the Left, which clashes and proposes, which claims and wins, can be of catalytic importance.
It can prevent measures, it can limit the possibilities of the ruling powers to impose their political choices, it can contribute to improving the lives of working people.
With your vote you support the Syriza that annoys.
It bothers because:
- it defends the victims of the crisis.
And it considers that those who should pay for the crisis are those who caused it;
- refuses to agree to new anti-people's measures that will put the working people and the socially weak in an even more difficult situation;
- questions the "market economy", which bypasses the real needs of the people and is interested in the profits of the few. -
openly combats racism,
nationalism
and social conservatism,
and defends the rule of law,
social rights
and democratic freedoms;
- puts the environment before profits;
- defends public goods from being turned into profit-making private enterprises;
- fights for the future and the dream of young people who today are forced to live worse than their parents, without jobs, without hope, without confidence, on the margins of life. -
co-signs the demands of ethnic, racial and social minorities for full freedom, equality and freedom from all forms of discrimination;
- refuses to accept the notion that scandals, the party state, opacity and contempt for citizens are almost natural and inevitable.
SYRIZA is annoying because it is fighting to change life, politics and the dominant ideas.
This annoying voice must be present in the next Parliament, even stronger, even more effective.
The plans for independent governments or for a coalition between PASOK and New Democracy are plans to strengthen the anti-people's measures, and they must be scuttled.
The social groups affected can for the first time, today with their vote and tomorrow with their struggles, thwart these unpopular plans.
They can become a force for social control, and regulators of political life.
They can claim social justice and equality.
They can overturn the current balance of power and impose respect for their needs and wishes.
SYRIZA, with its presence and action inside and outside the Parliament, seeks to stand by all those who are not comfortable with the current order of things.
On October 5, we must have a strong radical and interventionist left opposition, which will put great obstacles to the anti-worker political plans.
Which will put forward alternatives and strengthen the hope for a radical change of social correlations.
The Radical Left has been at the forefront of the struggles for the protection of the environment,
the social security system and
workers' rights.
It has always been at the forefront of the pan-European mobilisations against neoliberal capitalism
and war.
He achieved important victories.
And this makes it the most effective opponent of neoliberalism.
He has the experience, the will and the fighting spirit to promote an alternative plan for the country, in line with the real needs and interests of those affected by the unpopular policies of the two-party system.
Any falsification of this pursuit, either with the illusion that any centre-left scenarios constitute an alternative, or with the steady denial of the unity of the Left, weakens social resistances, and does not improve but worsens the position of the workers. -
Because the left is with the victims and not with the perpetrators
- Because in the end the working people are tired of being played into the hands of the two-party system, and in the end their position is always getting worse
- Because our future is routed by our present decisions.
