Project Greece
An integrated programme for growth and social justice
The proposals and commitments contained in the "Plan Greece" are put to the citizens' judgment in the coming elections.
They respond to the citizens' demand for Dignity and Hope in their lives.
We guarantee that we will insist that they are put into practice, that we will not betray the trust and expectations of citizens.
That is why we have submitted these proposals to Parliament in the form of an elaborate and detailed Draft Law of our Parliamentary Group.
A. Setting targets FIRING PAGE
OBJECTIVE 1: SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT FOR ALLGrowing GDP to 80% of the EU average compared to 67% today.
OBJECTIVE 2:
FULL EMPLOYMENT
Reducing unemployment with quality new full-time jobs and reducing the long-term unemployed to below 20% of the total unemployed.
OBJECTIVE 3:
BALANCED REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT
No Greek Region in the list of the 20 poorest regions of the EU instead of the current 4 (Macedonia and Thrace, Epirus, North Aegean and Western Greece).
OBJECTIVE 4:
TACKLING POVERTY
A drastic reduction in the number of people at risk of poverty-social exclusion to pre-crisis levels.
With stable policies to support those who really need it and remove the causes that breed poverty, away from the logic of temporary benefits.
OBJECTIVE 5:
INSTITUTIONAL RECONSTRUCTION OF OUR DEMOCRACY
A democracy with laws and institutions that do not allow the abuse of powers and the plundering of public wealth, a
friendly, efficient, decentralised, transparent and accountable state
that encourages participation and gives equal opportunities without discrimination and exclusion.
B. Development by CHANGING the terms of the Tsipras agreement
Tsipras' commitments are a noose around society's neck and must be changed.
We will be at the forefront to achieve the necessary political understanding and to help our European partners understand that the commitments that Mr.Tsipras willingly accepted not only impoverish Greeks but also intensify and reproduce the problems of the crisis.
Immediate need:The reduction of the targets for primary surpluses from 3.5% to 2% and
the radical change of the role of the Colonial Property Fund to a Public Asset Management Agency, which finances development projects, linked to the sustainability of the Insurance Fund
and the creation of jobs, especially for young people.
It is a prerequisite for the necessary resources to be available for the development and support of the welfare state.
Γ. Development with SOCIAL JUSTICE and COHESION
Our proposal, consistent with the principles of modern Social Democracy,
is the only one that guarantees economic growth with prosperity for the many
and ensuring stable strong redistributive policies of social solidarity and cohesion.
For us, growth is intertwined with social justice
The first and lasting concern is the recovery of investment, production and employment.
But alongside the implementation of a programme to improve low and middle income earners,
gradual restoration of the welfare state, the
rise of employment with stable jobs.
Our policy simultaneously addresses both the prolonged inequality that the policies of the New Democracy and the prolonged stagnation brought by Syriza.
Growth must be based on the high human potential that our country has.
The necessary change of the production pattern has at its core the protection of the environment and the halting of climate change, but also the adaptation of the economy in view of the 4th industrial revolution and the gradual integration into the new global division of labour.
These changes will help create new and quality jobs with good wages.
Without them, Greece will be condemned to stagnation and will be on a steady trajectory of divergence from the rest of the European economies.
These changes cannot be promoted by SYRIZA, as has been shown by its four years in government.
Instead, over the years it has either reversed progressive reforms or reproduced past pathologies.
But neither does the Southwest have the capacity to make these changes.
Not only has it not learned a single lesson from the crisis it created, but it remains trapped in its own dogmatisms.
An unfettered market without a strict control framework and a safety net for workers and the weakest, leads to a further exacerbation of economic and social inequalities, with all that this implies for the social and political stability of the country.
The detailed Programme of the Movement for Change contains all our proposals and policies.
We present 12+1 central points of the Plan Greece that constitute the framework of our Progressive proposal for the country.
1. Incentives for Growth and Investment
We reduce taxes.
The corporate tax rate is reduced
from 29% to 20%.
We reduce VAT by 2 points.
The high rate from 24% to 22% and the low rate from 13% to 11%.
We remove all bureaucratic barriers to investment with fast truck procedures.
We are giving a development identity to each Region.
2. We support young people
Full exemption for 3 years from taxes and social security contributions (pension contributions) for young people starting a business or professional activity.
3. We support the Greek Small and Medium Enterprises
We ensure a real regulation of overdue debts to the tax authorities in 120 instalments.
We propose the creation of a Special Credit Institution in cooperation between the State, Banks and the private sector for the restructuring and consolidation of companies that are unable to meet their obligations.
We give a second chance to SMEs that have gone bankrupt without fraud and facilitate their inclusion in the out-of-court settlement.
We support the transformation of SMEs into larger and more competitive businesses.
With special tax incentives for mergers, incentives for hiring and training workers, support for new business opportunities and the use of the NSRF.
We are promoting, especially for the "poorer" regions of the country, a Special Development Programme within the framework of the EU, to strengthen their competitiveness.
With an increased financial package, higher financing rates for development projects, more flexible application of competition policy to support new production units.
4. Increase in disposable income of Greek households
Complete abolition of the extraordinary solidarity contribution.
Reduction of ENFIA by 30%.
5. Supporting the world of work
Incentives for new recruitment of unemployed people in the private sector.
For every €100 that the company pays to create new full-time jobs, it is exempt from tax for 150.
We increase the unemployment benefit from Community funds.
Possibility of converting it into a work and employment allowance.
The minimum wage is increased and set by the Social Partners through the National General Collective Labour Agreement.
Mandatory and universal application of the sectoral agreements.
We equip young people with the "Apprenticeship Guarantee" to gain work experience.
6. Social State - Right to dignity for every citizen
Insurance
New ESAS with a minimum pension of €500 for a single pensioner and a minimum income of €700 for a couple.
Widow's pensions and invalidity pensions in the previous scheme.
Reduction of the participation in medicines for pensioners and the economically weakest.
Repeal of the anti-insurance law Katrougalos.
A new law for a fair and economically viable Insurance System.
By strengthening the public and social character of insurance.
Supporting the socially disadvantaged
Decent Guaranteed Social Income and measures for the integration of the poor and socially disadvantaged.
Expansion of open Care Centres for the Elderly and upgrading of "Help at Home".
Accessible Creative Employment Centres for people with disabilities in every municipality.
The tax rate for persons with a disability of more than 67% is reduced by 5 points compared to the current rate.
Disability benefits are not taxable.
Protecting the first home of small and medium borrowers from foreclosure.
7. 10 proposals, for Primary Care
Health Centres in all Kallikratiko Municipalities and 24-hour multi-purpose Health Centres in large urban centres.
Local Networks of integrated services throughout the country with the participation of local health centres, municipal polyclinics and contracted units and private sector doctors (after certification).
Free choice of Family Doctor for all citizens and doctors of speciality contracted with EOPYY.
EOPYY contracts with all private doctors.
Focus on prevention. Mandatory vaccination of all children.
With a national screening plan and the development of an integrated network of prevention centres.
(It is not possible for children to go to first grade without being vaccinated).
It is also not possible to exclude dental care for children from prevention.
Fixed percentage of NHIF spending on dental care.
Dental Clause.
Wide use of telemedicine, with integration of the National Network and e-health services.
Establishment of special centres for the management of chronic diseases (diabetes, hypertension, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, etc.) that will operate 24 hours a day, 365 days a year.
Units that can be co-located with hospitals or health centres, but which will carry out their work exclusively.
Reduction of citizens' participation in Medicines (and corresponding adjustment of the relevant ceiling) with a particularly high rate of reduction for low-income/low-pensioners.
Abolition of the health levy on supplementary pensions, to ease the burden on pensioners affected by the cuts.
A new system of continuous Education and Retraining of doctors under the control of the KESY and their specialization, in order to keep in the country the high quality young doctors who are currently leaving abroad.
Recruitment of doctors and nursing staff in hospitals and PHC.
A transparent selection process for the selection of staff in the NHS.
Public tenders with transparent criteria.
Decentralisation of the System.
8. Modern Education System-Investing in knowledge for all
Full-day kindergarten and primary school.
Morning program operation until 2 p.m.
Establishment of extended working hours in secondary schools.
Foreign language and computer certification up to the 3rd grade.
Reform of the curricula for the qualitative enhancement of the Lyceum and the operation of a Subject Bank.
The national baccalaureate as a basis for admission to higher education institutions.
Reorganisation of Technical Vocational Education.
Apprenticeship class for all sectors and specialisations of the EPAL.
Strengthening support structures and programmes and Special Education structures with integration sections in kindergartens, primary and secondary schools.
Strengthening the Public University, both with resources and with a lean institutional framework that allows flexibility and extroversion.
A unified Higher Education and Research area, with strong educational poles in each region.
Foreign-language undergraduate and postgraduate courses with tuition fees.
From the proceeds scholarships for postgraduate students with low income.
The possibility of establishing non-profit, non-profit universities with the same supervision as that of the NPOs.
9. Restart with a National Plan for the Rural Economy
We strengthen competitiveness and extroversion for our "National Products" (Dairy / Goat and sheep meat / Fruits and Vegetables / Wine / Olive oil / Cotton).
We link quality production with manufacturing and exports, ensuring greater value for products.
We reduce the tax on farmers to 13%.
We establish the unconfiscated and tax-free nature of subsidies.
We decouple insurance contributions from income.
We are taking measures to reduce production costs.
A 35% tax cut and an additional 5 points of VAT refund to farmers organised in producer groups and cooperatives.
Establishment of an agricultural oil card.
Incentives for land use by young farmers and producer associations.
10. Modern, Decentralised State
All matters concerning the citizen are under the control of the local government.
The State Development, Coordination and Control Strategy.
No citizens at the counters for certificates.
All public certificates are provided electronically.
All business licensing procedures are digitised and monitored.
Dignity, evaluation and transparency throughout the public sector.
No recruitment outside the APSEP.
Gradual restoration of Public Servants' salaries from the reductions due to the Memoranda.
Supporting young couples - Addressing the demographic problem
€200 per month for 3 years for each new child born.
(regardless of family allowances).
No children outside nurseries and kindergartens.
A one-off childbirth allowance of €1000 for each child.
The rights of large families are guaranteed.
Polygamous status and for those with three children.
Baby products at the low VAT rate.
Housing assistance (through tax relief, or rent allowance or reduction of ENFIA) for each family for two years after the birth of a new child.
Creative activity centres for children and children with disabilities in the social services of the municipalities.
11. Exploitation of Public Property
We use public land for new investments, in partnership with the private sector.
With modern land use and balanced spatial organisation.
The criteria are job creation and sustainability.
Re-proclamation of all the hydrocarbon exploration areas that had been identified.
A specific plan to exploit and expand public-private partnerships in new sectors.
With clauses to boost employment and protect the environment.
25% of the revenue is directed to the Generation Solidarity Fund (Law 4162/2013) to support the Insurance System and especially the younger generations.
The revenue is used to fund the postgraduate and research programmes of the Greek Higher Education Programmes.
5-10% of the revenues are allocated to development, social, environmental and environmental actions in cooperation with local communities.
Open Society. Equal rights for all
With immediate universal application of national and international rules to tackle any discrimination.
With a firm front against the far right, populism, neo-Nazis.
No tolerance for discrimination against women, differential pay, sexual harassment in the workplace.
No violation of the mother's rights.
No tolerance for domestic violence.
Recognition of the rights of the LGBTI community.
Policies for the social integration of refugees-migrants.
Support for single-parent families.
Tackling child poverty with free benefits for housing, utilities, health care.
12. Strengthening institutions. Fast and reliable justice for the citizen
Decoupling the election of the President of the Republic from the dissolution of the Parliament and the holding of parliamentary elections.
Revision of the provision on the criminal liability of ministers-simulation of the amortization periods with the common provisions for every Greek citizen.
Change the way the leadership of the judiciary is selected to strengthen its independence.
Measures for the swift administration of justice
Alternative dispute resolution methods - strengthening mediation.
Trial without paper.  Completion of e-Justice projects
12+1. New Social Contract of the Digital Age
Cooperation between the State, the public and private sectors and workers to exploit new technological opportunities.
Lifelong Employment Programme.
Incentives for businesses to invest in Innovation,
but also quantified obligations to retrain workers to the new standards.
Harnessing "artificial intelligence" to create "green-smart" cities and buildings.
We are creating a state-big business-banking research and development fund to
invest in the knowledge economy, to
finance start-ups, to
link groups of young entrepreneurs and researchers with universities and multinationals.
Creation of Industrial and Technological Parks/Innovation Zones.
