a key element of the Programme is that Greece will regain its pre-crisis levels of prosperity much sooner than other countries that found themselves in this situation.
Both in GDP and in jobs.
The seven leading sectors for the Development Plan 2015-2021
1. Rural Development Sector: It will contribute an additional €13 billion and 315 thousand additional jobs.
2. Tourism: it will contribute an additional €16.5 billion and 225 thousand jobs.
3. Energy and Environmental Industry (renewable energy, water management, solid and liquid waste treatment - excluding revenues from the TAP and hydrocarbon extraction): will contribute 9.5 billion and 40 thousand jobs.
4. Research and Technology: According to the most conservative estimates, it will contribute €2 billion and 50 thousand new jobs.
5. Shipping: It will contribute 8.5 billion to GDP and 70 thousand new jobs.
6. Transit trade (Iosseiite) - Transport: Will contribute 2.5 additional billion to GDP and 65 thousand jobs.
7. Pharmaceutical industry: it will contribute an additional 2 billion and 25 thousand additional jobs.
Total by 2021: 54 billion additional GDP and 770 thousand jobs.
Not included
all the rest of the economy, especially the tradable services (trade, retail, advertising, technical consultancy, private medicine, etc.);
the construction industry, building and works;
the metal and construction materials industry, which has a strong export performance;
the exploitation and promotion of our cultural heritage, where great emphasis will be placed.
the hydrocarbon exploration and processing sector, where the first indications from natural gas and especially the underwater wealth are extremely encouraging.
the licensing of both exploration and extraction in various areas of Greece and its maritime space is no longer just talk.
They have started and are moving forward.
And they reveal the potential for Greece to take the lead in Europe's energy supply.
Which, of course, is of particular interest to Europe.
And this is all probably much bigger than anything we're discussing here.
And it's not far in the future.
And these are all national choices, not party choices.
It's a strategic mix, not a partisan ploy
Conclusion: In a few years Greece will have reached pre-crisis levels in both GDP and employment
In fact, every day from now on will be better than the day before.
Which, unfortunately, has not been the case in other countries in crisis, such as Argentina.
Which went bankrupt in 2002 and is still struggling.
Growth through Investment
Because "growth" in our logic and in the logic of any modern country means investment, how much investment is needed in the next five years to achieve these goals?
Answer: 150 billion
And where will these come from? Because proper modern planning is to calculate and find: and how much and from where and how.
Budgeted things:€38 billion from the NSRF and other Community resources
€6 billion from national resources
€106 billion from investments of all kinds.
Goal: To make Greece a global champion of growth, competitiveness and prosperity.
RECONSTRUCTION OF THE WELFARE STATE I GREECE 2021
Another important step is the reconstruction of the welfare state, to make it fair, safe and efficient, with transparency, in order to safeguard the responsiveness of contributions and the survival of the funds.
Reconstruction of the State
With speed in the distribution of pensions.
By striking at the incredible corruption that existed. And the waste.
With a distinction between contributory contributions for the insured and welfare benefits for the weakest and the uninsured.
With the gradual abolition of distortions and injustices.
In our logic, the contributions of the insured to their funds are sacred.
They cannot be plundered by pensions that are given away or by the preferential treatment of some at the expense of all others.
A typical example: the problem of the "pensions of the 40s" which is a double burden on the funds:
It reduces their revenues (since contributions are lost), while increasing their costs (since early pensions are added).
The percentage of new pensioners under 62 is 76% for the public sector and 64% for IKA.
And in some cases it reaches 92% Such scandalous deviations from the general retirement thresholds do not exist in any other European country.
We are not going to make any surprises by upsetting family plans.
Provocative cases will be gradually eliminated.
With the unified electronic Pension Payment Database "Helios" that we have created, we are achieving for the first time sweeping data cross-checks.
And so we identified tens of thousands of monkey pensions and monkey benefits.
The "insurance CV" we created provides a definitive solution to the chronic problem of information and waiting for the issuance of pensions.
Through the "ATLAS" system, we electronically register the entire insurance life of the country's employees.
With its use, the issuance and award of the pension will be a matter of a few days in 2015. From years ago.
We are completing the codification and simplification of insurance legislation in 2015.
These are about 8,000 laws and regulations, in more than 38,000 pages
We abolished the health insurance booklets for 10 million insured people, resulting in one million visits a year to the health insurance funds.
This is a self-evident relief for insured persons from the burdens of bureaucracy.
We guarantee
There will be no cuts in pensions and incomes.
ENFIA will be reduced even further,
starting in 2015 and will be given directly to the Local Authorities;
-The allowance for elderly expatriates, Northern Epirotes and Pontians will be returned and thus a great injustice will be restored.
The first home will remain fully protected.
Which we have protected to this day, more than any country in such a crisis.
REFORMS FOR COMPETITIVENESS I GREECE 2021
Our vision for a new dynamic Greek economy is already materializing! And it is based on the structural reforms that started to be implemented in 2012. But in the coming years we will go much further. And much more subversively.
Reforms that create a favourable investment climate and facilitate entrepreneurship
We are simplifying the licensing of new investments, starting new businesses and starting a profession.
And this simplification, which began with the Oye-5tor-5Hor and with the Rth5i itotl, is now generalized everywhere.
And it extends to many hundreds of economic activities.
Huge decades-old gaps are being filled.
And a chaos that used to prevail against the business is being put in order and settled.
With rationality and transparency
Reforms that boost competitiveness and remove "barriers to entry" for new businesses.
Liberalisation of "closed professions", which are a serious distortion of competition.
But also social injustice.
Such distortions have been removed or are being eliminated in sectors such as; retail trade, construction materials, food processing, road transport and the energy market.
In tourism, only the abolition of the "cabotage" brought millions of additional tourists to Greece, who were not even allowed to arrive by cruise ship at its ports.
This year alone 2.5 million tourists came from cruise ships. And billions in additional tourist income.
In the international ranking of new business start-ups, Greece was in 147th place in 2012.
Within two years, Greece has risen 111 places in this sector, according to the World Bank's ranking.It is now in 36th place, up from 147th.
This is the most rapid rise ever by a country.
So far, €3.1 billion has already been received from a total of €7.7 billion of deals.
Among them is, of course, the investment in Elliniko, which had been "haunting" for twelve years.
These amounts, however, do not include the additional 1.4 billion from the 14 regional airport concessions recently closed.
In the coming years, studies predict that we will collect five times as much as we have so far.
We have facilitated new recruitment and removed obstacles to job creation.
The most important of these is the generous reduction of social security contributions, for the first time in Greece by five percentage points.
We facilitated hiring in good times and discouraged business closures in times of recession.
So this is a very positive development for the workers.
And even more positive for the unemployed, but also for young people trying to enter the labour market for the first time.
We implemented the innovative information system "ERGANI" that records in real time who is hired and who is fired across the economy on a daily basis.
And it has complete aggregate employment data all the time.
We are effectively combating undeclared and uninsured work through the "ARTEMIS" Operational Plan.
Reducing compliance costs for businesses and drastically increasing the costs for those who break the law.
We are moving towards rationalising trade union legislation in our country.
So that there is full protection of trade union freedoms, but no guild immunity.
And to balance labour rights on the one hand with the unhindered development of entrepreneurship on the other.
Businesses cannot be closed down by strikes that are usually decided by a small minority, opposed by most workers.
These are all unprecedented breakthroughs and reversals.
So far we have promoted:The drastic reduction of public employment.
The introduction of evaluation and accountability
and the e-government
We promoted the electronic tax office.
Real-time electronic employment recording.
The electronic recording of workers' contributions since 1994 in all funds and soon for the whole of their working life.
The electronic inventory of public property.
And electronic certificates of all kinds.
Things that used to take weeks or months are now completed in no time, often at the touch of a button, from the user's home.
And more; electronic payments, electronic invoicing, electronic prescription to control waste in the pharmaceutical circuit, simplification of import-export at customs with the IODE-EVI system.
And the National Electronic Public Procurement System, through which the entire tendering process and the transparent monitoring of a public contract will be carried out electronically.
The number of positions of responsibility in many public services was also reduced by 40%.
To give you an example: On a large island, the Municipality had 160 employees and the organizational chart included 90 "department heads"!
Worthy civil servants have only to benefit from evaluation and accountability!
Because it will allow them to both excel and be better rewarded.
Whereas until now there was a pervasive flattening of everything.
To fight corruption, we have promoted systems to control fuel trafficking by installing x-ray devices at all the country's entry gates.
The relevant tender has been launched and is well underway.
The government's financial data is published electronically in real time, as is the Parliament's.
For the control of great wealth, 726 cases have already been audited and more than 400 million in fines have been established.
Thorough audits of expenditure, payments and compliance with legality are already being promoted in all Local Authorities.
This is mainly through the integration of electronic systems that has already begun.
A pilot application to "couple" electronic income data with the real estate database has shown a large number of taxpayers who have been declaring income below the tax-free threshold for many years.
That is, they didn't pay tax.
And they are now with a lot of real estate.
And these are now coming to the surface automatically.
-With the electronic cross-checking of expenditure and assets, the pace of case completion by the audit services is accelerated.
Without the need for the taxpayer to contact the tax inspector.
The transition to the digital era has been decisively advanced with the introduction of electronic applications for tax returns, adjustment requests, electronic invoicing, fees and electronic payments.
These applications greatly speed up taxpayers' transactions with the State, but also help in the fight against tax evasion and increase tax compliance.
Already more than 95% of taxpayers in Greece submit and correct income tax returns electronically.
And this is a reversal unthinkable a few years ago...
From the "direct" anti-tax evasion measures alone, the Budget has a cost of several hundreds of millions per year, which means that more than 2 billion per year of evaded income is caught.
Together with the "indirect" measures, the tax evasion hit goes much further.
The tax burden has been reduced for employees and pensioners with an annual personal income of up to EUR 23,000.
And the maximum income tax rate was reduced from 45% to 42%.
VAT on catering was reduced from 23% to 13%.
The Special Consumption Tax on heating oil was reduced by 30%
The extraordinary solidarity contribution was also reduced by 30%.
The tax on dividends was reduced from 25% to 10%.
Property tax was reduced by 15% from 2012 to 2013. Then the
burden was reduced even further for the vast majority of taxpayers with the changes to property tax in 2014.
Also the rental tax was reduced to 11% up to 11 thousand per year.
And 33% for amounts exceeding this limit.
Whereas before it was 40% for most cases..
Exempted from the obligation to submit a VAT return and pay VAT, businesses with gross receipts up to ten thousand euros. From 1 January 2015, more than 400,000 businesses can be subject to VAT.
On the other hand, businesses with a turnover of up to €500,000 have been given the option to pay VAT only when the invoice is paid, significantly boosting their liquidity.
We abolished the VAT clearance return, as well as the tax refund application;
-We reduced the transfer tax from 10% to 3%, and suspended the real estate capital gains tax for the next two years.
We have settled overdue tax debts in up to 100 instalments, without any restrictive conditions.
Hundreds of thousands of taxpayers have already rushed to take advantage.
And more will come.
We have strengthened protection against the confiscation of wages and pensions up to €1,500.
We also introduced a single child support allowance from the first child, as well as an additional enhanced special allowance for families with three or more children.
We abolished the bureaucratic Code of Books and Figures, introducing a new law on the Greek Accounting Standards.
Gradual reduction of ENFIA, starting in 2015.
So that, eventually, it will generate revenues below 1 % of GDP, from 1.43 % where it is today.
And above all, it should be directly attributed to local government. So that local government becomes truly autonomous, responsible and developmental.
And not a "beggar" of the state budget or a source of waste and corruption.
Reduction of income tax rates across the board.
With the top rate eventually falling to 33%, down from 42% today and 45% before the crisis.
Reduction of corporate tax rates gradually, to eventually reach 15%.
The flat tax on corporate profits will be the biggest upheaval in the country's tax regime.
Introduction of the tax deduction also for income from sole proprietorships and liberal professions.
We extend the possibility to pay VAT only when the invoice is paid to businesses with a turnover of up to €2 million.
We are looking at extending the VAT exemption for businesses with a turnover of up to €20,000.
With the modern audit tools we have already adopted, we can finally abolish the presumption of living and the tax resulting from such outdated "presumptions".
We will also abolish "the "behind the scenes" for the first home.
We are exploring the extension of the VAT exemption on first homes for Greek and foreign citizens to boost the construction sector.
We will move to incentives for repatriating capital from abroad, as several other European countries have done.
With great success.
As happened in Belgium and Italy.
This will strengthen the capital base of our banking system and the necessary liquidity in the real economy.
