The real dilemma of the elections is not the dilemma between the euro and the drachma. The Greek people say YES to the euro.
The real dilemma of the elections is: Unilateral termination of the loan agreement or an organised review of the terms of the agreement?
Our proposal and commitment is the revision of the terms of the loan agreement, keeping all the positive aspects of the loan agreement.
and changing all the negatives that fuel recession and unemployment.
OUR PROPOSED REVISION OF THE TREATY IS BASED ON EXTENDING THE PERIOD OF FISCAL ADJUSTMENT.
The first year we claimed is accepted in Europe.
We can get an extension for another two years, until 2017, so that everything becomes softer, friendlier.
More citizen-friendly, income-friendly, growth-friendly, without further sacrifices.
WE PROPOSE SIX KEY POINTS FOR REVISION:1.  No cuts in incomes, especially in wages and pensions.
2.  Protection of collective autonomy and the institution of collective agreements, in line with European standards.
We fought to convince the Troika that what applies in the rest of Europe should apply in Greece.
3. Drastic increase of liquidity in the market.
To inject money into the market in order to facilitate the operation of enterprises with working capital, promote investment, increase employment and thus stop unemployment.
At least €50 billion coming from the new loan agreement will flow into the market.
4. Immediate liberalisation of public and private investment in infrastructure with a total budget of more than €55 billion and the creation of thousands of new jobs.
Investments that have been stalled in recent years due to the inability of the Greek and international banking system to finance the relevant contracts.
With the reconstruction of the Greek banking system, the encouragement of the European and the European Investment Bank, this lever can be moved for local economies, for construction sites, for subcontractors.
This means 100,000 new jobs during the construction period.
5. Make the European Union's development package a reality.
Our aim is to implement the political commitments of the European Council of 27 October 2011 on the development assistance package for Greece, with the immediate mobilisation of existing Community funds, as well as European Investment Bank funds.
With the letter from Evangelos Venizelos to Mr Barroso, with a special letter to Mr Ren, the Vice-President of the European Commission, with what the President of PASOK said to President Hollande, to Mr Schultz, the President of the European Parliament, we are saying what specifically needs to be done, in order to move this mechanism with the funds that exist.
6. Increase the funds for employment, with a focus on youth unemployment.
Support with European Social Fund resources all programmes to tackle youth unemployment, in particular programmes to support youth entrepreneurship, training, selfemployment of local authorities and community service.
120,000 jobs are provided by self-employment and 45,000 jobs are provided by community service, in conjunction with non-governmental organisations.
Are we saying this for the first time?
Are we remembering it now, are we saying this after 6 May, did we change our tune under the pressure of the situation? No.
PASOK President Evangelos Venizelos has been proposing these changes since 20 March and reiterated them when he presented the National Reconstruction Plan before the 6 May elections.
And of course he had said all this while negotiating hard with the Troika in the previous months, but then the conditions were very negative.
We had not achieved debt reduction.
We didn't get the money for the PSI.
We had not got rid of all that burden.
We did not have the approval of the loan agreement. We didn't get 150 billion euros in hand, we didn't put them in the Greek treasury.
Now we are reiterating what we have told them: what needs to be done to get out of the recession, not to feed the deadlock.
They've heard it, they know it. They know that we are justified in the arguments that we had developed for them.
Why can only PASOK succeed in revising the Convention?
The conservative party cannot promote this line.
The conservative party is the "like-minded brother" of the conservative Europe that we have had and still have against us.
And of course the Greek Right cannot be convinced.
It is inconsistent and contradictory in its attitude to both the first phase of the crisis and the second.
And its horizon is always narrow.
The goal has always been "factionalism", the illusion of self-reliance, how to unite the "multi-housing" of the Right, with a partisan, personal aim, which led the country to a dead end through the insistence on elections.
Returning to the past of the 1950s, to a discourse reminiscent of the EPP, does not help.
But neither can the European radicals when in their countries they raise their numbers with the slogan: "not one euro in Greece - not one euro in the south"!
That's what the radical, communist or other parties in other countries in Europe say.
We need new correlations.
It is the Socialist leaders who support our proposal and will help us to change the balance.
It is no coincidence that the new French President invited Evangelos Venizelos not as a man who simply leads a Greek party, but as the man who could tell him what the reality is in the Eurozone, the reality in relation to the International Monetary Fund, the European Central Bank, the EFSF, what needs to be done and how the balance can be changed.
The points that the Troika rejected, in the tough and difficult negotiations we had, we can now bring them back with the Party of European Socialists as the main driver.
The real dilemma is whether we are playing with the fate of the country or whether we are doing the best for Greece within the European framework.
There is one line. Not the blind line of unilateral denunciation.
Not playing with fire, but an organised and responsible review of the loan agreement, now that we have the acquis of the existence of the agreement, the disbursement of significant amounts from the agreement and, of course, the acquis of the drastic reduction of the Greek public debt.
