The programme sets out our key priorities for the next period, a programme that in a difficult environment will protect the majority of society
and pave a different way for the social needs of the many and not for the few;
a programme that paves the way for a way out of austerity.
For us, the programme is a living process of dialogue and communication with society.
In this light, SYRIZA's programme remains open to dialogue and comments.
PREPARED Government of the Left in the new conditions: Guarantee for democracy, support for the weak and reconstruction of the country.
SYRIZA'S GOVERNMENT PROGRAMME IN THE NEW CONDITIONSGetting an agreement with the lenders: Commitments and open fronts1. INSTITUTIONAL RECONSTRUCTION AND DEMOCRATISATION OF THE POLITICAL SYSTEM AND THE STATE
1.1 Democratic restructuring of the political system
1.1.1.1. War against corruption and corruption
1.1.2. Modern, democratic media
1.1.3 Other changes to democratise the political system
1.2. Institutional restructuring of the administration
1.2.1. Public administration at the service of citizens
1.2.2. Self-government with powers and resources
1.3. Expanding individual rights and democratic freedoms
1.3.1 Justice and the prison system in a modern constitutional state
1.3.2. Reliable immigration policy
1.3.3 Gender equality - Sexual orientation and gender identity - Rights of minorities and conscientious objectors
1.3.4. Security forces: from repression to protection of citizens
1.4. Taxation as an instrument of redistribution
1.4.1 Fair, simple and stable tax system
1.4.2. War against tax evasion
2. PRODUCTIVE RESTRUCTURING AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT
2.1. A new productive model based on labour, knowledge and innovation
2.1.1 The nature and objectives of productive reconstruction
2.1.2. Development planning for the recovery of the economy
2.2 Institutional changes and democratic reforms for productive reconstruction
2.2.1 Protecting labour and boosting employment
2.2.2 Restoring liquidity - Banking system at the service of the real economy and society
2.2.3. Effective use of Community funds
2.2.4. Support for small and medium-sized enterprises
2.2.5. Strengthening the social economy
2.2.6. Reliable spatial planning
2.2.7. Exploitation of public assets
2.2.8. Ambitious innovation policy
2.2.9. Coherent digital policy
2.2.10. New Island Policy: Islands of equal opportunities
2.3. Production priorities 2.3.1. Agricultural, livestock and fisheries production
2.3.2. energy 2.3.3. industry 2.3.4. transport 2.3.5. new technologies 2.3.6. tourism 2.3.7. construction
2.4. Protection of the environment
3. RENEWAL OF THE SOCIAL STATE 3.1 Humanitarian crisis and protection of vulnerable social groups
3.2. Universal and efficient public health care system
3.3. Sustainable and decent Social Security
3.4. Democratic restructuring of education
3.5. A long-term policy for scientific research
3.5. Culture and sport for all
3.5.1. culture 3.5.2. sport
4. MILITARY DEFENCE AND FOREIGN POLICY 4.1 Reorganisation of the armed forces 4.2 Multidimensional foreign policy
PREPARED Government of the Left in the new conditions:  Guarantee for democracy, support for the weak and reconstruction of the country.
1. Introduction
The 25th of January marked an unprecedented political breakthrough for political affairs both in Greece and in Europe.
For the first time in post-war Europe, a party of the radical left managed to win governmental power
and in conditions of generalised economic, political and social crisis.
The five years of the memorandum in Greece dismantled the traditional political and social representations
and broke up the social alliance that actively or passively supported the neoliberal process of restructuring the Greek economy and the related social and political relations over the last twenty-five years.
This is because the gentle and gradual restructuring process was replaced by a violent programme of rapid fiscal adjustment and internal devaluation which left no room for any material trade-offs
(cheap borrowing, tax exemptions, state-organised tax evasion, limited wage increases etc.) for the social classes that in previous years played the role of supporters of the neoliberal coalition of power.
At the same time, the disintegration of previous social and political alliances coincided with the rise of popular availability for militant mobilisations, both traditional (strikes, demonstrations) and novel (Constitution, social solidarity initiatives).
In this climate of rising popular struggles, SYRIZA understood that the time has come for the Left to take the initiative to represent a new social alliance
which seemed to have the potential to seize governmental power.
And that's exactly what happened.
The political programme that accelerated and completed the social upheavals that were taking place was the Thessaloniki Programme with its four pillars:
Tackling the humanitarian crisis,
restarting the economy,
restoring labour relations
and democratic reconstruction of the state.
It was a programme aimed at redistributing income and power in favour of the classes that had suffered the severe blows of the Memorandum policy.
But at the same time it was a given that this programme, in order to be implemented, required a tough negotiation with the lenders in order to neutralise the main driver of the fiscal adjustment programmes:
the debt and the inability to finance the Greek economy from the markets.
2. It was precisely the weapon of financial strangulation that was used effectively by the lenders and the institutions throughout the tough negotiations of the new government.
From the very first moment that SYRIZA took power, the financial stranglehold of the ECB
and the constant threat of the collapse of the country's financial system was used to put economic and social pressure on the new government.
The aim was either its overthrow or unconditional capitulation and the adoption of the previous programme of fiscal adjustment
and internal devaluation.
Despite our small forces, we have tried to defend ourselves in every possible way against these pressures
and to give signs of a new political ethos
and a new social perspective both at home and abroad.
As regards the negotiation in particular, despite the slippages and possible tactical failures, we did everything possible to cope with the financial suffocation
(delayed payments to the IMF,
refusal to extend the previous loan agreement,
enforced capital controls to protect the banking system from ECB financial blackmail)
but also everything that was necessary to send the political message to Europe that the internal devaluation programme has failed
and lacks popular support.
This political struggle culminated in the referendum of 5 July, a moment of popular uplift and militant availability
that will remain indelible in the memory of the European peoples
and will produce its political results in the near future.
A precondition for this, however, is that the referendum should not work in reverse, that is, that it should not be a reason for the popular strata to become disillusioned
, as what followed did not match the initial enthusiasm.
And this struggle for the interpretation of events, during and after the referendum, is not the least of our struggles.
as there are political forces today that distort the reasons
but also its result with the main aim to reap the benefits and use it as a political vehicle for opposition survival.
It is therefore necessary to recall that the declared aim of the referendum was to strengthen the government's negotiating position in an unequal and asymmetric negotiation.
We never claimed otherwise, we never said we were asking for an order to blow up EZ by killing ourselves first.
Instead, we called for the rejection of a programme of horizontal cuts and fiscal repression accompanied by a politically driven Greek debt sustainability study
that imposed high primary surpluses and insufficient financing under the old programme (the 2012 loan agreement)
that would have been extended for only five months, thus maintaining economic uncertainty
and simply postponing the risk of a Grexit to the near future.
And that is precisely the mandate we received from the Greek people: To reject the specific proposal of the institutions, winning what more was possible without risking a generalized social catastrophe
as the extremely unfavorable European correlations were a given.
3. The blackmailing dilemmaAfter the referendum result, we found ourselves in an absolutely hostile European political landscape
and faced a punitive mood on the part of the lenders and the institutions.
With the banks under capital controls, with the ECB freezing the ELA, with the
threat of a haircut on Greek bonds securing ECB loans to Greek banks and the Bank of Greece,
with the IMF pushing for the repayment of the overdue June 30th instalment under the threat of declaring Greece in default,
with access to the markets naturally impossible and with almost all European governments blackmailing the Greek government,
we are faced with the following dilemma: Either to sign an agreement that was improved in terms of the institutional framework and funding projections (86 billion over three years instead of 5 billion in five months) and problematic - to say the least - in terms of measures,
or to lead the country into a disorderly bankruptcy with unpredictable consequences for the future
(possible collapse of systemic banks,
haircuts on the remaining deposits,
exit from the Euro without the backing of the new currency
thus a rapid and steep currency devaluation
and therefore a severe social and political crisis
leading to a possible collapse of the government and a humanitarian crisis.
The dilemma that was posed to us was not Memorandum or drachma but Memorandum
with either Euro or drachma (Schaeuble's proposal) or disorderly bankruptcy.
We had to choose either a tactical retreat in order to maintain the hope of strengthening in an asymmetrical political struggle
or to charge the Left with the historical burden of having turned the country into a social desert.
So we shouldered our responsibility and did the first thing.
That is why we ask to be judged by the Greek people.
4. The agreement with the lendersWhat does this new agreement we signed with the lenders actually contain?
Is it really, as some claim, the worst of the three Memoranda?
Is it true to say that it accelerates and completes a programme of structural changes that will not only sustain poverty and the humanitarian crisis
but also organise the conditions for its management in the future?
Without being under any illusions about the content of the agreement, the above claims are merely political exaggerations that are certainly understandable given the circumstances.
But in no way do they reflect the whole of reality.
Moreover, because they are usually undocumented, they do not contribute to the necessary concrete analysis of the specific situation that has been shaped both for the Left and for the social forces it wants to represent.
This particular Agreement, signed in coup terms after an unprecedented blackmail in the context of the negotiations,
reflects the specific balance of power that has recently emerged in the framework of the EA.
And as we know, it is impossible to escape from the correlation, from reality.
Thus, in every aspect, in every chapter and in every provision of the Agreement, it reflects the results of the asymmetric negotiation,
the will of the lenders for a total dismantling of the social and labour protection system and the
will of the Greek government to resist this prospect.
Regarding the first part of the Agreement, the Loan Agreement, the Greek government succeeded in preventing the plan of permanent financial blackmail
supported by the extreme conservative European circles - mainly the Schaeuble group - which remained active until the EG of August 14th.
According to this plan, Greece would either have to settle for a five-month extension of the previous loan agreement or, after July 12th, proceed to continuous financing - bridges that would prolong the uncertainty
but would also constantly increase the possibilities of blackmailing the creditors for the implementation of other recessionary and anti-social measures.
On the contrary, after strong resistance but also due to specific political moves that mobilized what democratic reflexes are left in the existing Europe
, we managed to secure on the one hand the change of the institutional - legal framework with a new loan agreement
and a three-year horizon covering both the external financing needs and
and internal obligations, mainly the public sector's debts to suppliers and contractors.
Specifically, the new legal institutional framework of the loan agreement puts an end to the disgrace of the previous colonial contracts with the EFSF (a public limited company)
, since Greece has now contracted with the ESM, an international organisation, and the contractual relationship of the country with it is governed by international and European law,
while the protection guaranteed by the immunities and privileges of the Hellenic Republic and the Bank of Greece against international creditors is recovered.
This is a completely new relationship that meets all the standards for international protection in similar cases.
At the same time, while the second part of the Agreement, the annex to the loan agreement, is indeed a tough programme of continuing austerity policies.
there are some - of course limited - gains for the social majority, while in many respects the direction of implementation will depend on the future negotiations between the Greek side and the lenders.
and therefore here arises a large field for the development of political and social struggles in defence of the wage-earning strata,
the self-employed and public property (equivalents for pensions, labour relations, the tax system and the use of public property).
Another positive aspect of the agreement is the adjustment of the level of primary surpluses
, which was reached after strong negotiating pressure from the Greek government.
Based on the agreement, the fiscal targets set are a primary deficit of 0.25% for 2015,
and primary surpluses of 0.5% for 2016, 1.75% for 2017, and 3.5% for 2018.
This is a large reduction in the country's liabilities
as the previous programme had envisaged primary surpluses of 3% for 2015 and around 4.5% by 2018.
And because the size of the primary surplus is nothing but the numerical valuation of austerity by comparison we have secured a much milder adjustment
that reduces the possibility of new blackmail for new horizontal measures in the coming years.
Finally, the agreement for the first time sets a clear timetable for the launch of discussions on the reduction and repayment terms of the public debt.
This is precisely the area in which we will be called upon to fight a tough battle, the positive outcome of which will reshape the framework of the country's relationship with its creditors.
Because a positive agreement on the reduction of the Greek debt will erode the power technology
on which the programmes of harsh austerity and internal devaluation of the last five years have been imposed.
In this struggle, it is crucial to take advantage of the new political situation that is taking shape in Europe after the negotiations
, as new divisions have emerged in the last six months within the European political families.
5. Is there an alternative?
Many, of course, accuse SYRIZA that the choice to sign the new Agreement justifies the Thatcherite aversion that there is no alternative to and against the dictates of neoliberalism.
There has never been a more conscious and extreme distortion than this in the short history of Syriza.
This Thatcherite phrase means nothing more and nothing less than that neoliberalism, extreme individualism and the pursuit of capitalist profit is the only solution, the only way to social welfare.
According to all that lies behind this aversion, any other path leads to unfreedom, totalitarianism and social misery.
SYRIZA and its government never adopted this political and ideological perspective.
Because it is one thing to accept neoliberalism as a strategic horizon, as the only way to social prosperity,
and another thing to recognize that at a given moment in time, with given political correlations, one has to make a tactical and temporary compromise in
order to be able to continue to fight with the strategic goal of socialism, keeping alive the possibility of empowerment.
So yes, there is an alternative, there is another way to organise societies and the economy.
This path passes through the redistribution of wealth and power in favour of the subordinate classes, public and private sector wage earners, the self-employed and pensioners,
through the strengthening of forms of social economy that challenge the pattern of overt or covert hierarchy (and thus power) within the enterprise
and give an outlet to the creativity of an over-employed but unemployed youth,
through the protection of common goods which are one by one targeted by capital,
through support for the welfare state and the
extension and deepening of social rights and democratic freedoms.
This path presupposes both a permanent and organic relationship with the movements of the subordinate classes,
close contact with the theoretical elaborations of the intellectuals of the Left
and an organised, mass party open to the world of labour and youth.
We must help build this party if we are to have a chance of success in the long and difficult class political struggle ahead of us.
Because the road to social emancipation, especially in crisis conditions, is not easy and even more so it will not be short.
It has accelerations and reversals, it has turns, returns and dead ends,
it is not linear but forked and bumpy.
This is precisely the road we must open up, based on the experiences of the workers' and leftist movements of the 19th, 20th and 21st centuries, but also on our own experiences.
In those accumulated during the previous semester with its mistakes and correctness, with its failures and successes, with its failures and successes.
Because the struggle that we have fought throughout this six-month period has been hard, painful and admittedly emblematic for all the peoples of Europe and the world
who expect and struggle to overthrow the global neoliberal hegemony.
Small Greece gave (and continues to give) a political struggle with a scope many times its size and as such it will be recorded in history.
We happened to be the protagonists in the resistance against globalised financial capital at the possible dawn of a new historical period that
will have started with the financial crisis of 2008.
Whether this struggle will ultimately prove to be the beginning of a new period or the end of the previous one can only be said with hindsight
and depends on the outcome of the social and political struggles.
For history is only produced retrospectively, when the noise of battle has subsided and when a new balance is restored.
And that balance is a long way off.
6. The situation in Europe: Towards a course of rearranging the balance of powerIt was precisely the negotiations of the Greek government in recent months that showed the current limits of the existing Europe,
the harshness of the mechanisms of the imposition of neoliberalism
and the extremely unfavourable political balance of power both at the level of the institutions and of the individual governments.
However, for the first time a government of an EU and EA member state has directly challenged this political correlation
and the policy it imposes, i.e. the policy of aggressive austerity, harsh fiscal adjustment and internal devaluation.
It was precisely this controversy that, not coincidentally, monopolized the world's interest for a whole six months
while at the same time triggering a major political debate within Europe and the institutions.
This debate highlighted deep rifts within the social democratic parties of Europe,
polarised parts of the European Greens towards the Left,
mobilised broader social forces that actively supported the struggle of the Greek government
, while at the same time rallied broad forces of the global intelligentsia
that not only supported politically but also deepened in theoretical terms the critique against extreme neoliberalism and austerity policies.
At the same time, the Greek issue revealed the hegemonic role of Germany in the process of imposing fiscal adjustment programmes
and forced its political elite to spend much of its political capital to create the conditions for effective blackmail of the first left-wing government on the European continent in the present circumstances.
But the negotiation effort also revealed the deliberate structural limitations and the political nature of the European Central Bank which,
precisely because it does not act as a lender of last resort for the members of the EA, in fact plays the role of an institutional financial blackmailer
for those members of the Eurosystem that question the neoliberal directions of European policy.
It is precisely these points that trigger a wide-ranging debate and political conflicts
that are likely to develop in the future into a general crisis of the entire European construction
, given the will of parts of the European elite to proceed with processes of federalization of Europe in terms of deepening the neoliberal project.
In these conflicts, Greece must play a leading role, seeking to sharpen the contradictions of the Union and the Eurozone,
mobilising political and social forces in the direction of resistance, questioning and transformation of the European institutions.
But the precondition for this struggle is that the Left remains in power.
Because it is exclusively the left that can play the role of catalyst for radical developments on the battlefield that is Europe today.
On the contrary, a restoration of the political forces of the old political system in our country will exclude for several years the possibility of the formation of a large and internationalist pan-European movement with claims of success in the great battles to come.
7. The political situation in GreeceThe real political dilemma facing the Left today is whether to allow the restoration of the bourgeois political system in the country
or to fight in a united way for disengagement from neoliberalism and the memorandum policy of austerity and from a governmental position.
The answer to this question must take into account that a possible restoration of the bourgeois parties in the country would constitute a historic defeat for the Left
, which would probably close for a long time the prospects opened by the electoral - political victory of 25 January.
This does not mean that the necessary victory in the elections of 20 September does not carry its own risks:
The dangers of the party's political mutation under the pressure of the unfavourable correlations and the commitments imposed by the new Memorandum,
the party's rootlessness and its disconnection from the popular and working strata
it seeks to represent, its transformation into a soft manager of memorandum neoliberalism.
These are real dangers that we must take into account in our effort to play a leading role, and indeed from government positions,
in the struggle of the Greek people to overturn the correlations within and outside our country.
The other option, however, may prove to be historically disastrous for the world of labour
, as the return of the old political system to power is bound to trigger punitive and vindictive choices against the Left and
the popular strata, irreversibly shifting the social and political correlation against the social majority.
It is precisely for this reason that, despite the existing problems of the party, we are forced by circumstances to fight decisively for victory in the coming elections.
With rallying and stubbornness, but also by recognizing both our existing weaknesses and the strategic dilemmas we face after the imposition of the new Memorandum.
SYRIZA's aim is to implement in other terms, after seven months of negotiating and governing experience, a government programme with a four-year horizon
for disengagement from neoliberalism and austerity,
for the radical democratic transformation of the state,
while finding solutions to limit the consequences of the Agreement.
To implement a policy that will support the social majority
and constantly shift the index of correlations in favour of the forces of labour.
It is precisely for the implementation of this programme that the government of the Left is a guarantee of democracy.
A crucial stronghold in the long struggle against neoliberalism promoted by the ruling complex in Greece and Europe.
The state, however, is not a fortress but a network, a relationship and a strategic field of political struggle.
It does not change from one day to the next but, on the contrary, its forced transformation presupposes constant and continuous struggles, the
involvement of the popular factor, and constant democratisation.
Just as neoliberalism conquered the world through constant restructuring and restructuring that lasted for four decades, the
strategic goal of the radical left, the economy of needs that is in line with the expansion and deepening of direct and indirect democracy in all possible fields,
takes time, persistence and perseverance to gain ground in the existing Europe of austerity and neoliberalism
in a world dominated by the logic of production for exchange and profit
In these conditions, therefore, the government program of SYRIZA tries to provide solutions,
find answers and open up paths having as its non-negotiable horizon the social and political emancipation of the world of labor and youth.
SYRIZA'S GOVERNMENT PROGRAMME IN THE NEW CONDITIONSLeadership The fixed strategic goal of SYRIZA remains the prospect of social transformation in the direction of Socialism with Democracy and Freedom.
That is why we seek the essentialisation of the institutions of indirect representative democracy,
the creation and strengthening of institutions of direct democracy,
the safeguarding of all freedoms without exceptions and hierarchies, the
strengthening of social movements and the creation of self-management centres in the whole productive process.
In the course of this democratic transformation inside and outside the institutions,
SYRIZA is being built as a pluralist, renewing and radical party of the European Left of the 21st century,
in the service of the oppressed social classes and strata against all forms of exploitation and alienation.
Regarding the context, we reiterate that after a tough negotiation, which left an important legacy in the fight against neoliberalism and for democracy in Europe,
the SYRIZA government was forced to sign a painful agreement.
The neoliberal core of this agreement is at the antithesis of the ideological, political and programmatic characteristics and objectives of our party,
it is contrary to our leftist, radical identity.
The agreement with the lenders: Commitments and open frontsThe agreement with the creditors, in its general direction, reflects the priorities of the ruling bloc in Europe for the restructuring of the economy.
Despite this, the agreement is not a closed text but contains contradictions and open fronts.
While it imposes problematic commitments, in several parts it reflects the resistance of the Greek people and the government to the policy of austerity and internal devaluation.
The SYRIZA government will implement these commitments.
At the same time, however, we are determined to seek equivalents and compensatory measures to minimise the negative impact
and we will negotiate hard on all those points of the agreement that remain open.
The main negotiating priorities for the SYRIZA government are two: Public debt
The first government of the Left has managed to open the issue of the Greek debt in an international and binding way.
This issue is finally coming into its true dimensions as a problem: Transnational, because it concerns the whole of Europe.
 Economic, because without addressing it we will not return to growth and prosperity.
 Political, because its comprehensive solution lays the foundations for a new economic and financial architecture for the whole of Europe.
The SYRIZA government will be in a position, after the first evaluation, to present its proposal for a comprehensive and radical solution to the problem.
 Key issues of SYRIZA's policy we refer to areas such as: labour relations, the social security system and pensions, the utilization of public property, the tax system and of course the regulation of the open issue of "red loans".
These areas constitute grey areas, in the sense that the content of the changes to be made is still largely open,
although the wording of the agreement is problematic in many respects.
The agreement also includes commitments that reflect the positions of the first government of the Left.
Such issues include, for example, the following: the fight against corruption, the
reconstruction of the public administration, the
strengthening of the tax administration, the
settlement of open tax cases, the
protection of the first home.
Moreover, the agreement contains absolutely no commitment to further public sector redundancies.
SYRIZA's commitment is to implement a parallel programme on issues outside the scope of the agreement, with a double objective:
on the one hand, to mitigate its consequences for the employed and unemployed strata, the
self-employed and pensioners,
and on the other hand, to strengthen the position of these strata both politically (democratic changes and reforms) and economically,
in order to pave the way for disengagement from neoliberalism and the memorandum policy of austerity.
Therefore, given the contradictions and the open fronts of the agreement, SYRIZA, beyond the binding commitments it has undertaken, will seek to overcome them both with compensatory and equivalent measures and in the framework of a parallel programme.
At the same time, it will seek to exploit every opportunity that the economic, social and political developments in Greece and Europe will create in the future,
aiming step by step to free itself from neoliberal policies in consultation and cooperation with European parties, trade unions and movements.
In any case, we will seek to implement the agreement in a way that does not further increase social inequalities as it did in the past.
1. THEMATIC REFORM AND DEMOCRATISM OF THE POLITICAL SYSTEM AND THE STATEThe neoliberal transformation of the state in the last three decades, which in our country was promoted by the old political system,
is linked to the restructuring of social power relations and the change of class relations in favour of capital.
The privatisation of public services, the
flexibilisation of labour relations
and the reduction of social expenditure
constitute clear political choices to reinforce, secure and extend the conditions of capitalist accumulation.
and the parallel creation of markets and areas of profitability in the public sector itself
Moreover, the processes of neoliberalisation presuppose and imply the authoritarian state in the socio-political field.
Particularly in crisis Greece, the state reveals daily its traditional class character
and the negative correlation of forces it has embodied for the world of work.
For SYRIZA, the democratic transformation of the state is inextricably linked to the class reorientation of public policy in all fields.
SYRIZA is fighting steadfastly to reverse the current correlation in favour of labour.
That is why our policy aims at two main things: (a) to protect the world of wage earners,
pensioners,
small professionals,
farmers
and youth from the more onerous regulations of the new agreement
, burdening, instead of these social strata, the high incomes and the interlocking economic oligarchy
; and (b) to gradually establish a state of universal social guarantees.
Neoliberal policies are creating not only social misery and a humanitarian crisis,
but also a generalised breakdown of institutions and the credibility of politics.
For this reason, a total reboot of the political system is needed,
with new institutions that will protect rights
and strengthen citizens' participation in the control and exercise of power.
SYRIZA, as a government, is committed to safeguarding the social character of the state, as
opposed to neoliberal deregulation.
If radical changes and democratic reforms in the political system do not take place,
the state and the public administration included in the government programme of SYRIZA,
then it is impossible for our country to exit the crisis in terms of social justice.
In other words, it is impossible to realize the two other strategic objectives of SYRIZA's government programme:
the productive reconstruction of the Greek economy
(and thus the effective fight against unemployment)
and the re-foundation of the welfare state.
1.1 Democratic restructuring of the political systemWe have inherited a political system and a state that have been stigmatized by multiple phenomena of corruption and interconnectedness,
a web of opaque power relations that have to a large extent eroded the public administration.
The exit from the crisis, the reconstruction and the democratic transformation of our country will be impossible to achieve unless the system of complexity and corruption is decisively eradicated.
We have already demonstrated our political will to eradicate it.
We did not hesitate to confront, as a government, the core of interests responsible for the Greece of crisis and decline.
This struggle continues because we consider it our duty towards democracy and citizens.
1.1.1.1 War against corruption and corruptionIt is clear that corruption is an integral part of the capitalist economic model.
However, it is the old political forces that created the conditions of complicity and corruption in our country.
In this way, they have subjugated the country and its citizens, and created for the benefit of themselves and the economic interests
they represent, a situation which, to a large extent, is what has led Greece to the brink of the abyss
and to a large extent holds the entire productive life of the country hostage.
It is commonplace that corruption has spread to the public administration.
An administration that does not suffer from a lack of competent staff, but from a lack of transparent procedures.
This allows for easy and uncontrolled operation of circuits that literally infest many areas of it.
The strategic orientation of SYRIZAThe government policy of SYRIZA seeks the following: To identify and decisively combat corruption and corruption phenomena,
in order to punish the wrongdoers and to
save public and other resources
that are currently being wasted in an anti-social and counterproductive manner.
 Our country should acquire an effective system to prevent similar phenomena in the future.
The compromise and the prospects that are opening upWe negotiated hard so that the new agreement not only does not include any condition to deconstruct SYRIZA's strategic plan to fight corruption and corruption,
but, on the contrary, to strengthen some of its aspects.
This success was achieved despite the fact that, during the negotiations, the old political system tried everything to cancel our plan.
So we will take advantage of the possibilities offered by the new agreement and we will also fight to expand them.
This means that the anti-corruption action plans we have agreed or will agree will be implemented swiftly and decisively.
We have already started this work.
The first government of the Left The fight against corruption was a key element of the mandate we received from the Greek people on 25 January.
And already on the day after those elections a new page began to be turned in Greek public life.
 We assigned a Minister of State the responsibility for the fight against corruption
and created a new General Secretariat as an administrative structure in
order to better organize the fight against corruption.
This structure is proving to be much more effective than options made by past governments and the Troika (such as a National Anti-Corruption Coordinator),
as those options were mainly communication-oriented and did not produce any results.
This is demonstrated by the fact that during the previous period of government, the phenomena of corruption did not recede, but multiplied.
 Never before in such a short period of time have there been such major revelations:
scandalous concessions of the TAPED,
Pangaea, illegal media lending, mega-corporate loans, the scandal at the Athens Stock Exchange, the orgy of directed state advertising by the PPC and the Greek National Health Insurance Fund, the scandals at the Social Insurance Fund ...
All these and many others have already gone their way.
Today we are facing a new reality.
Justice is now breathing.
We have followed to the letter the popular mandate for a merciless war against corruption and corruption.
 We have taken measures against corruption as it manifests itself in the media. (See next chapter).
SYRIZA's programmatic commitments We continue the war against corruption and corruption even more decisively, even more effectively.
We are developing and implementing the National Anti-Corruption Action Plan, the institutional framework that will run horizontally and vertically through the entire public and private sector.
Our goal is clear: to dismantle every pocket of corruption, every pocket of enrichment at the expense of the people and national interests.
We have already identified 47 targets with 123 actions for deep interventions - interventions across the whole public administration.
Some of the objectives of the Plan are as follows: Upgrading the role and capabilities of the control mechanisms
and merging the main ones in order to achieve better and faster results,
better organisation and savings of financial resources.
 Better coordination and exchange of information between control mechanisms.
 Adoption of international auditing standards by audit bodies and the conduct of regular audits.
 Introduce information systems to ensure real-time dissemination and management of information between audit mechanisms
 Develop a sectoral anti-corruption strategy for the entire public administration
, in particular in high-risk sectors (health, defence, public procurement, public utilities, public works, etc.).
 New legal framework for the fight against smuggling (fuel, tobacco, alcohol) with the creation of a single operational centre for the prosecution of smuggling.
 Maintain statistics on corruption cases by the audit bodies and the judiciary
and publish them annually to inform society.
 Establish a single system for receiving complaints on corruption cases throughout the public administration and co-financed programmes.
D forwarding them to the relevant audit bodies for verification and checking the speed and quality of the procedures.
 Establish a new legal framework for political money and the background of public officials.
Specifically for Public Procurement, SYRIZA is committed to: The institutionalization and full implementation of a single and codified regulatory framework for tendering procedures, the
award and execution of contracts by all public bodies for works, studies, materials and services.
 The development of a national strategy for public procurement.
This will also include the functional upgrade of the electronic systems for the management of tenders, ESIDES and KIMDES,
the rationalisation of the network of public sector entities conducting tenders,
the control of specifications and the development of creative competition in tendering procedures.
Our aim is to fully consolidate and shield the entire procurement system, to
rationalise the management of financial resources, to
improve the quality of public procurement
and to support small and medium-sized enterprises.
1.1.2 Modern, democratic mediaThe commitment of SYRIZA to end the entanglement of political power with the media establishment is being implemented.
The inextricable link between the business interests of the media and politics has been the focal point for the implementation of neoliberal policies and austerity measures.
The five years that preceded it made private information a spokesman for the press of the memorandum coalition governments,
while at the same time public broadcasting was discredited, resulting in the black of ERT.
The interconnectedness has served, and continues to serve, as a key player, the scenario of the leftist parenthesis.
He seeks to return.
The first government of the LeftThe SYRIZA government acted with determination.
For the first time, the analogue frequency fees of private television stations were confirmed, since since 2010 the collection enjoyed the protection of permanent amendments, with the tolerance of the Troika.
The government opened ERT.
Without the privileges and the pathologies of the past, with meritocracy and transparent operating conditions, 2,000 workers who overnight found themselves in unemployment, returned to their jobs,
without the taxpayer being burdened financially, since the contribution fee remained at 3 euros.
Citizens' trust in the public broadcaster is being restored day by day.
With a quality programme and pluralistic information.
4 TV channels, the regional radio stations, the Music Ensembles and the Choir send out the signal of democracy.
The new agreement does not touch these actions.
The programmatic commitments of SYRIZAThe struggle of SYRIZA continues: The draft law on the television licenses of channels is already in public consultation.
After 25 years of anarchic operation of TV stations, temporary licences and other immunity arrangements, a new, modern legal framework is ready to be implemented.
A competitive process from scratch, with no preferential ranking, financial transparency
and fulfilment of financial obligations to the State,
guaranteed employment status,
insurance, tax and banking information are at the core of the new law.
 ERT is a digital signal provider.
The new law provides for the establishment of a subsidiary, ERTnet, which will be operational in the next year and will cover the areas of the country that are still in the black.
The digital monopoly of the channel owners ends here.
 Another legislative initiative, the National Plan for Communication and Information, is ready to be implemented.
The new law provides for the operation of the country's Communication Policy Council, the establishment of an online Media Registry, the
creation of the National Audiovisual Media Centre
and the new strategy of Communication Diplomacy.
1.1.3 Other changes for the democratisation of the political systemOur country's political system is in a state of depreciation and decline.
SYRIZA responds to this crisis of representation, legitimacy and citizens' trust in the political system with a policy that aims to bring the people back to the forefront of political developments.
This is the only way to serve the interests of workers, youth and the popular strata.
The strategic orientation of SYRIZAThe principles that govern our policy are the following: The defence and deepening of democracy.
The upgrading of its institutional function as a framework for guaranteeing the public interest and the public space.
 The deep democratisation of the current representative democracy, introducing citizen participation in the formulation
and implementation of all state policies at all levels of administration.
 The reintroduction of "politics at the helm".
Politics is produced by the people and controlled by the people.
The production of political decisions belongs to the public political sphere.
 The total weakening of the dependence of political power on extra-institutional economic power.
We emphasize that in Greece and Europe in the 21st century, the struggle against xenophobia, racism and neo-Nazism is one of the most critical areas for the Left.
Not as abstract issues, but as absolutely concrete political issues, intertwined with the everyday life of society,
and as part of a more general struggle for social justice and liberation.
Especially in Greece, where neo-Nazism has manifested itself in an aggressive form and mass appeal,
with the rise of Golden Dawn, the tasks are urgent: cleansing of the state apparatus,
anti-racist education,
confrontation with neo-Nazis in all fields (social, ideological, political, in workplaces, schools, neighbourhoods, etc.andso on),
support for broader anti-fascist initiatives, support for the unimpeded conduct of the Golden Dawn trial.
SYRIZA's programmatic commitments Beyond the war against corruption and corruption, and the interventions aimed at modern and democratic media, which we have mentioned in previous chapters, SYRIZA plans additional changes and transformations aimed at democratizing the political system.
Indicatively we mention the following: Constitutional revision.
We are immediately opening a broad democratic dialogue with all social and political forces on the contents of this review.
 Strengthening the Parliament as a legislative and supervisory institution of the executive, with a major overhaul of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, which, among other things:
--The right of a majority of MPs to propose a referendum on a passed bill regulating a serious social issue is guaranteed.
--The possibility of setting up a committee of inquiry is ensured if 1/3 of the Members of Parliament request it with justification.
--It is foreseen that Ministers and the Prime Minister, prior to their participation in European institutions and international organisations, will inform the relevant committees of the Parliament and the Plenary, as well as after the meetings.
 Abolition of parliamentary privileges.
 The immunity of the Member of Parliament (parliamentary immunity) is drastically suspended
and is explicitly and unequivocally linked to the exercise of its supervisory and legislative functions and to the expression of an opinion only.
The criminal offences of ministers have no statute of limitations, they can be investigated whenever evidence arises.
In the case of criminal cases in which Ministers are involved, the Judiciary does not send the file to the Parliament to decide on the course of the case,
but continues its work as usual and brings charges, if it has the necessary conviction.
 Radical change in the law on the financing of political parties with a view to making their finances completely transparent.
The changes provide, among other things, that:-- The State does not finance the parties but compensates part of their realised and proven expenses,
based on tax and insurance information
-- All parties that presented combinations in 50% of the electoral districts and received at least 1% of the valid votes are entitled to state compensation.
--Prohibits: (i) bank lending exceeding 10% of the state compensation
(ii) mortgaging of the state compensation to banks
and (iii) sponsorship of any kind of companies to parties;
--Expands the powers of the Court of Audit to audit the finances of political parties as well as the financing of politicians, ministers, etc.
 A system of simple proportional representation is constitutionally established as a permanent electoral system for all elections (Parliament, European Parliament, local government).
For the Parliamentary Elections, the system of proportional representation is applied in constituencies that are as balanced as possible in terms of population.
The electoral threshold (currently 3%) for the parliamentary representation of a party is abolished.
 Introduction and constitutional establishment of the institutions of popular legislative initiative,
popular veto and referendums on the initiative of citizens.
The central aim is to introduce the now mature institutions of direct democracy into the functioning of the political system
and to establish the partnership of social movements and grassroots grassroots initiatives in the legislative function.
 Strengthening transparency in the administration of the state and the possibility for all citizens to control decisions without mediation.
Every person is recognised as having the right of access to all state decisions
and files without any legitimate interest, except for personal data and copyright.
The right to free access to any information or content produced or disseminated by public bodies or publicly funded is recognised.
 Radical change in the content of the state's administrative architecture, with the three levels of Central State - Regions - Municipalities having clearly defined responsibilities and financial resources. (See below the relevant chapters).
 Deepening of the distinction between the judiciary and the executive.
The selection of the heads of the judiciary by the Council of Ministers is abolished.
The President and Vice-President of the CoE, the Supreme Court and the Court of Auditors are elected by a Special Electoral College with the participation of all members of the respective judiciary.
 As part of our firm position on the separation of church and state, we continue our dialogue with the church in order to address the relevant issues in a mutually beneficial manner.
1.2 Institutional reconstruction of the administrationSYRIZA is committed to a profound democratic reform that will completely reverse the roles between the central state and local institutions.
In the country's unified administrative system there must be an extensive transfer of powers, responsibilities and resources from the centre to regional and local public institutions.
Decentralisation with effective administration - strong self-government, subsidiarity and democratic programming are the key elements of our planning.
In particular, we plan the following:[a] The levels of administration of the country should be three: the Central Sector, the Region and the Municipalities.
The perception that everything is planned and decided at the centre and the Local Government simply implements, as a mere appendage of the centre, must be overturned.
There will be clearly defined responsibilities and financial resources.
Central Administration and Local Government, as two distinct poles of the unified political and administrative system, will constitute the Public Sector and will share the common goal of economic and social development.
[b] The Central Administration to set the guidelines on issues such as economy and development, environment, social policy, etc.
That is, it will focus on issues such as (i) the definition of key development objectives,
(ii) the preparation and coordination of general social and economic planning,
(iii) national spatial planning,
(iv) public planning of sectoral and spatial policies
, and (v) planning of investment allocation.
The basic principle that will characterise the public administration (central and decentralised services) will be smaller and centrally oriented central administrations and larger local services, close to the citizens.
[c] Local government to be radically reorganised.
We intend to replace "Kallikrates" and establish a new architecture and a new institutional framework that clearly defines the responsibilities of each level
and provides for the precise allocation of the required resources and the corresponding investment instruments.
1.2.1 Public administration at the service of citizens Throughout the post-independence period, the public administration functioned as a key institution for the reproduction of the interconnectedness, the economic oligarchy and the old political system dependent on it.
The parties of the old political system have corrupted the administration with clientelism, corruption and kleptocratic practices, undignified and buffoonery.
The subjugation of public interest and public morality to the organised big interests served by the old parties continued during the years of the Memoranda, with the tolerance of the Troika.
Progressive reform of the public administration will put it at the service of the many, not the few big interests.
Despite neoliberal ideologies, the problem of the Greek public administration has never been its size,
but the irrational distribution of its staff and its poor organisation, as a consequence of clientelistic policies.
The strategic orientation of SYRIZAThe central goal of the Left is to overthrow the clientelistic system
and to reverse neoliberal deregulation.
To build a democratic and effective public administration, a lever for the social and economic reconstruction of the country.
The first government of the LeftAs a government, we have given concrete and credible evidence of our policy,
as: We have streamlined the disciplinary law for civil servants
and strengthened e-government as a means of improving efficiency and fighting corruption.
 We launched the battle to improve efficiency and democratise the state.
 We established the ex officio and compulsory search of papers and documents within the public administration, which until now the citizen himself was required to search and move.
 We limited by 60% the possibility of hiring temporary consultants in the Political Offices of Ministers or Deputy Ministers or Deputy Ministers, General and Special Secretaries.
 We are promoting new institutions of direct democracy, such as general assemblies of directorates and departments in public services.
 We are breaking down the barriers of corruption and strengthening rights and freedoms.
 We have redressed injustices of the previous government by re-employing school guards, cleaners from the Ministry of Finance, as well as other categories of civil servants on suspension, and by
re-establishing the municipal police.
 With the hard and painful negotiations with the creditors:
We prevented planned cuts in civil servants' salaries
and ensured that the single pay scale to be implemented in 2016 will be based on their current salaries.
 We ended redundancies
and abolished the institution of availability.
 We abolished political conscription as a strike-breaking mechanism.
SYRIZA's programmatic commitments continue on the new road we opened for the public administration after 25 January.
Today we set out five key axes of radical changes for its progressive reform:
Bureaucracy and Corruption: We are ready for a major leap forward in e-government and a decisive blow to bureaucracy.
The electronic KEP "ERMIS" is already ready, which automatically provides about 20 certificates and in two or three days each citizen will receive about 150 papers and certificates by e-mail.
We are thus saving huge resources by reducing administrative burdens,
but also by reducing unnecessary travel for citizens for bureaucratic reasons alone.
The Ministry's study states that, on current data, savings of about €2.5 million per month are expected from the current use of ERMI alone.
And every day new services will be added.
E-government will make leaps and bounds in the coming years.
At the same time, a number of fees and useless administrative acts that inconvenience citizens are immediately abolished,
while all procedures for secondments, transfers and job changes will be immediately abolished within the new mobility system.
An administrative policy based on the knowledge and wealth of the public sector:
we build on the knowledge and administrative experience of people currently working in the public sector.
A huge number of civil servants, a highly educated workforce, with extensive and up-to-date administrative experience and training, is left unused in an administrative system that is being downgraded in terms of its responsibilities.
This potential will emerge.
Public administration in Greece must return to its civil servants.
- Profound organisational change throughout the public sector pyramid, from the central administration to the last supervised body, with modern organisational charts.
Their main feature is the description of jobs by scientific or technical discipline and a specific job description per employee.
Mobility. The new organisational charts create the conditions for a system of mobility within the public sector based on:
a) voluntary mobility of public sector employees,
b) the coverage of specific staff shortages per sector and scientific specialisation,
c) full transparency, through an open, self-operating and accessible to all information system for monitoring the "internal labour market" in the public sector.
The mobility system will help catalyse a productive programming of public recruitment policy,
since all recruitment from now on will be directed primarily to where there are major and urgent needs,
namely in health and social welfare and education.
Assessment / Evaluation of the work produced by the public administration.
Organisation of an evaluation system with the ultimate aim of upgrading public sector services to citizens.
Our evaluation is not punitive.
Our evaluation involves the evaluation of subordinates by superiors, and
vice versa, of superiors by subordinates, as all modern and democratic management systems require.
Our evaluation also includes the self-evaluation of civil servants, but also the evaluation of public services by citizens.
For this reason, and in cooperation with the National Centre for Public Administration, we will establish research tools for continuous monitoring of the work of services by society itself on an ongoing basis.
Finally, for us, evaluation is the evaluation of the technological and material infrastructure of the public sector, the working environment, the relations within the working environment.
No assessment is separate from the overall working conditions of a site. -
Upgrading the National Centre for Public Administration:
it is becoming an instrument for the production, implementation and evaluation of the administrative arm of the state.
The Centre, with a new organisational structure and an upgraded political role, will be the official adviser to the State on matters of public administration.
Transparency, Open Access:
we reinforce the notion that public administration is accountable to citizens and works in the interest of society as a whole.
We safeguard the right of citizens to free access to any information or content produced or distributed by public bodies or even publicly funded bodies.
We will establish by law that any denial of this right by the administration or political staff will render any act of theirs null and void.
1.2.2 Local government with powers and resources Local government is the most important institution of local democracy and participation
and for the radical left it emerges as one of the main pillars of democratic development planning at regional and local level, of the
implementation of social solidarity,
but also of the revival of political interest
and active participation of citizens in decisions that concern them.
The first government of Αριστεράς We have inaugurated a new relationship of cooperation with the elected bodies of Local Government, in the framework of a policy with "open doors" to all elected officials,
without political exclusion.
 Emphasis was placed on defending the constitutionally guaranteed administrative and financial autonomy of local government organisations.
 In the context of the negotiation and the reduction of the overall surpluses that the country will have to achieve, the amount allocated to Local Government was drastically reduced in
terms of achieving a primary surplus, thus freeing up significant resources to be allocated for projects and actions at local and regional level.
 Initiatives have been taken to strengthen the competences of local authorities of both levels (Municipalities - Regions), both in the framework of Law no. 4320/2015,
to address the humanitarian crisis, as well as overall with the initiatives of the Ministry of Social Affairs for the elaboration of a plan for the upgrading of the social service of the municipalities.
 Priority support was given to the social structures of the local authorities (kindergartens, Roma centres, KIFI, KDAP-MEA, etc.)
 Important for the operation of the local authorities were reestablished. services and branches (Municipal Police, School Guards), which
had been abolished under the policy of horizontal redundancies of previous governments
and which have a positive impact on the daily life of citizens and on the safeguarding of revenues and the protection of the property of local authorities.
 Prosecutions against elected officials who defended workers against the policy of redundancies have ceased.
 The institutional framework on staffing of local authorities has been streamlined, so that the relevant procedures are completed as quickly as possible and meet the real needs of local authorities and local communities.
SYRIZA's programmatic commitmentsIn the same direction, we continue even more dynamically and decisively, in direct cooperation with the institutions of Local Government and active citizens.
 We are completing the adoption of the draft law on the management of the finances of local authorities, which has already been submitted to the Parliament.
This bill abolishes the "Observatory of Economic Self-sufficiency of Local Authorities"which served as a loop for municipalities and regions,
and is replaced by a structure with a transparent and democratic function, which will help local authorities to improve their finances.
In addition, the Independent Control Service and the Legitimacy Auditor of the Local Authorities is organized and starts its operation,
an institution that will ensure the legal action of the Municipalities and the Regions, in an objective manner and independent of political interventions.
Finally, through a series of regulations, the efficient staffing and operation of the Municipalities and Regions is improved,
redressing injustices against large categories of workers, while resolving a number of smaller but long-standing problems.
 We are continuing and completing the initiative to upgrade the social service of municipalities.
 We are launching a public dialogue throughout Greece for the abolition of "Kallikrates" and its replacement by a simple, modern, rational institutional framework for the organization and operation of local government, which will be completed by 2017 and well before the next local elections.
The main axes of the new framework will be: -Deepening democracy, with the introduction of proportional representation in the election of municipal and regional councils and all local government bodies, with the strengthening of collective bodies as opposed to single-member ones.
-Encouraging participation in local affairs, through local referendums,
but also by strengthening the institutions of intra-municipal and intra-regional decentralisation.
-The clarification of the responsibilities of each level of administration, with the corresponding allocation of available resources and investment means.
-The creation of an effective and fair mechanism for monitoring and collecting the own revenues of the Municipalities and Regions,
in conjunction with the necessary redesign of the criteria for the allocation of state funding for local authorities, in cooperation with the KEDE and ENPE.
-The provision of assistance and the establishment of ways for the efficient, transparent and rational use of the existing property of the local authorities,
based solely on the local public interest and the needs of local communities.
-The strengthening of the operational capacity and the upgrading of the administrative efficiency of the Municipalities and the Regions,
so that they are not mere transmission and implementation belts for central policies at local level,
but to be able to independently design, implement and evaluate local and regional policies.
-The specialisation of institutions and policies, based on the needs of the metropolitan administration on the one hand,
as in Attica, on the one hand, and border areas, as well as mountainous and island regions, on the other.
 We highlight the role of Local Authorities in the planning of the new NSRF (FTA 2014-2020) and their role in the wider development planning at national, regional and European level.
1.3. Expansion of individual rights and democratic freedomsThe advance of neoliberalism not only creates social misery, but also drastically restricts democratic freedoms and civil rights.
This is the general historical experience, after all, of the prevalence of extreme neoliberalism:
when the hand of the state that provides social rights and services weakens, it inevitably strengthens the other hand of repression and restriction of freedoms.
Today, along with the dominance of neoliberalism in Europe, we are witnessing the emergence of a new authoritarianism.
At the same time, the spread of far-right and pro-Nazi views completes the picture of the dangers to democracy and freedoms.
In this context we have witnessed a shift of all the forces of the old political system towards extreme conservative concepts.
Legalization of repression against just social demands, targeting of the weakest parts of society such as migrants and refugees.
This attitude is in conflict with the history of the Greek people
and at the same time it is completely ineffective in being able to create a framework for answering the questions posed by the biggest migration crisis since World War II.
Against this grim reality, SYRIZA continues its struggle for a democratic society, with rights and freedoms.
For a society that accepts difference and does not rely on repression.
At the same time, we are launching bold changes to create a swift and fair justice system
and to transform the security forces from a repressive mechanism of the state to a body that protects citizens.
1.3.1 Courts and prison system in a modern rule of lawJustice, legal certainty, equality and the guarantee of fundamental rights are the institutional and political priorities for SYRIZA.
Greek society has known for decades that the slowness of the administration of justice is an unresolved problem,
as well as congestion and poor and inefficient conditions in prisons.
Our exit strategy is reflected in what we have done as a government and what we are committed to doing :
The first government of Αριστεράς We established the fast-track procedure for issuing payment orders against the public sector.
 We reformed bankruptcy law to make it more friendly to the financially weakest and shorter in its procedures.
 We increased the number of full-time magistrates by 140 and created 190 new judicial posts to deal more quickly with cases of indebted households.
 We established a new type of civil partnership agreement (for heterosexual and same-sex couples).
 We abolished type C prisons.
 For the first time in the last twenty-five years we introduced a weighted and successful programme of prison decongestion, thanks to which the (over)population of prisons was reduced by 2000 prisoners.
 We set up a working group to upgrade the structures for vulnerable groups of prisoners (minors, addicts, patients), which is already working on a long-term project.
 We have abolished juvenile confinement (with few exceptions).
 We are reorganizing and upgrading rural prisons.
 We are strengthening education and vocational training in prisons.
 We capture - record the financial data of prison expenditures.
 We promote - complete the electronic interconnection of prisons.
 We promote the information of prisoners about their rights by issuing a relevant "Guide".
Programmatic commitments of ΣΥΡΙΖΑ We are completing the legislation on the Criminal Code for financial and tax crimes as well as criminal and civil procedure, administrative justice and penitentiary law.
 We ensure the acceleration of the conduct of trials with full transparency in the conduct of procedural acts
and the participation of the parties involved in the trial at all stages of the procedure
 We prepare reforms of provisions related to lawyers, notaries and mortgage registrars, always with the participation of representatives of the respective functions in the legislative work.
 We are upgrading the organisational structure of the National School of Judges,
emphasising the institution of self-government of courts
and strengthening the framework of judicial officers.
 We modernise the legislation on press crimes, the institution of mediation and other human rights institutions.
 With funding from the NSDP, we are forming justice support mechanisms (electronic interface, mediation, etc.) supportive of the judiciary, continue their work seamlessly and intensively.
 We establish a special law on racist crimes, in line with the already submitted proposal for a law and the relevant amendments of SYRIZA.
 We further revise the legislative framework on addictive substances.
 The work of the working groups on the creation of support structures for the vulnerable within the prison system continues.
The new wing in Diavaton prison (Thessaloniki) is completed, where drug rehabilitation services will be offered.
 We continue to radically reform the prison system, completing our plan for:
-Immediate and substantial improvement of the daily living conditions of the prisoners
-Expansion and implementation of alternative sanctions and alternative ways of serving a sentence:
semi-free living, community service, home detention with the possibility of work, education, etc.
-Strengthening the institution of Rural Prisons.
Abolition of juvenile prisons
-Strengthening of the conditions for imposing temporary detention
and limiting it only to cases where no restrictive condition is sufficient
-Replacement of custodial sentences
and release from prison of persons with disabilities and those suffering from serious/manifest illnesses. -
implementation of the provisions on permits and, more generally, the strengthening of 'open' prison institutions,
i.e. institutions and procedures that facilitate social reintegration (permits, visiting, information, education, cultural activities, etc.);
-abolition of the prison vacuum: access and control by independent authorities and social bodies
Establishment of an independent body to investigate allegations of torture and ill-treatment of prisoners.
Establishment of the Prisoner's Advocate in every penitentiary;
- Protection of the rights of prison workers, prison officers, social workers, medical and nursing staff, external guards and institutional protection of their rights in the performance of their duties;
- Strengthening of social reintegration structures.
1.3.2 Reliable immigration policySYRIZA promotes a new strategy that considers migration and refugee issues not only as a national but also as a European and international issue,
which cannot be dealt with piecemeal solutions but with multi-level European cooperation.
In the framework of this strategy we defend the non-negotiable principles of social solidarity, equality and justice,
promoting solutions against marginalisation and social exclusion.
This strategy is the antithesis of an inhumane, costly and ineffective policy that trivialises human dignity,
nullifies guarantees of the rule of law
and denaturalises neo-Nazism,
while breeding and exploiting a cheap and uninsured workforce.
The first government of the LeftAs a government we were faced with a lack of planning, adherence to international commitments and systematic violation of international and national legislation on the reception of applicants for international protection.
The previous government had failed to implement its basic commitments to the European Commission for the creation of 2500 accommodation places for asylum seekers on the mainland and for the operation of First Reception services at the borders.
In addition, it had not completed the submission of the funding application for the multiannual programme of the European Asylum, Migration and Integration Fund (AMIF), which
should have been submitted in October 2014 - a programme that we successfully submitted - so we found ourselves in a funding gap for all services provided to the refugee population.
Despite this situation, as a government we have managed to do the following:
 We have highlighted as a major issue, at the level of the European Union, the intensity of the refugee issue and the increased pressures that our country is under.
We have appealed to the competent institutions to activate the solidarity mechanisms for a fair sharing of responsibilities between Member States and financial support in view of this extraordinary treaty.
 We have ensured the reinforcement of maritime operations in the Aegean region as well, the provision of emergency aid to countries facing increased inflows (e.g. Greece, Italy)
and the provision of a programme for the relocation of 40,000 third country nationals from Greece and Italy.
 We have secured valuable resources of 455 million for the period 2014-2020.
 We submitted and already approved two requests for emergency funding to address the acute needs on the islands and in Athens.
 We designed and institutionalised the Single Managing Authority under the Minister of Interior and Administrative Reconstruction.
The new principle is an essential tool in maximising the absorption of available European funds.
 In cooperation with local authorities, international organizations and humanitarian organizations, we addressed the immediate and acute problems on the outlying islands with actions such as:
--Fast processing of procedures and the immediate departure of refugees from the islands,
ensuring the reinforcement of police personnel.
--First Reception Centre in Moria, Lesvos.
A temporary accommodation site in Leros and arrangements to open another one there, more suitable.
Actions for the creation of a first reception area in Kos. Floating accommodation on board the ship "EL. VENIZELOS", in the port of Kos in order to provide temporary accommodation and food to a large number of migrants/refugees and transfer to ports in the mainland.
Hire of a second vessel for the same purpose.
Actions to carry out emergency services for the discharge of the islands and the transfer of refugees to the mainland.
Operation of a new facility for unaccompanied minors in Athens, while three more facilities for minors will be opened in the province.
Creation of a Temporary Accommodation Area for Newly Arrived Third Country Nationals of 700 persons, in the region of Attica.
 We have established, promote and implement measures for the integration of migrants and refugees residing in our country with the passing of Law 4332/2015, which regulates the granting of Greek citizenship to "second generation children",
i.e. children born, raised and attending our schools, who are the most integrated part of the migrant community.
 We have ensured that the law is respected and that administrative detention is enforced as an exception, as provided for in the legislation.
As a result of the policy pursued by the previous government in the field of administrative detention, the country was condemned internationally to millions of euros in damages
and the imposition of sanctions by the European Union Commission, which we reversed by restoring legality.
SYRIZA's programmatic commitments on the refugee crisis and refugeesThe challenge of desperate people seeking a safe haven calls us all, states and citizens.
Thousands of refugees are moving en masse, in all countries of Europe and Fortress Europe cannot withstand the pressure.
None of the old means are sufficient to deal with the large influx of refugees.
Dublin has been abolished in practice and EU leaders are obliged to formally suspend it.
Brave decisions are needed, not only from Europe, but also from the international community.
All states must take action to stop war and violence in war zones
and take responsibility for providing protection to refugees.
SYRIZA and the government of the Left are committed to take initiatives in Europe and in international organizations for the development of a new peace movement aimed at international interventions to end the war in Syria and Iraq.
SYRIZA also continues to advocate - as it did as a government - the activation of the existing solidarity mechanisms in the European Union
and, consequently, the immediate emergency aid to our country and the adoption of measures for the immediate sharing of responsibility among all member states.
In particular, in the European context, we demand: To protect the lives of refugees at sea by strengthening search and rescue.
Human life is the most precious commodity.
 Implement broad humanitarian visa programmes, as
this is the only guarantee for the safe entry of refugees into the countries of the European Union.
 Urgent measures should be taken to protect refugees: (a) granting asylum status to refugees,
(b) mutual recognition of the status and
(c) free movement of refugees in EU countries.
 The already decided relocation programme in various countries around Europe for refugees arriving in the countries of entry (e.g. Greece and Italy) should be activated immediately.
This programme should be based on a fair system of responsibility sharing.
Establish a permanent relocation mechanism.
Measures such as the above will ensure social cohesion and prevent societies from becoming fragmented.
It is doomed to failure any idea that the countries under the greatest pressure will become ghettos of hospitality,
while neighbouring countries will erect walls to block the flows to the rich countries of the north.
On undocumented migrantsDespite the fact that refugee flows are increasing, migratory flows have never stopped.
People displaced by poverty and climate change, by disease and religious persecution.
These modern refugees of poverty, while the flows are large, manage to reach their destination.
But when it is decided to strictly segregate refugees and migrants, they will receive all the accumulated repression.
They are unwanted because they are looking for work in a Europe of austerity and unemployment.
According to UN figures, there are 50 million refugees seeking international protection around the world, while 236 million migrants.
If they too decide to move en masse and share the goods of the developed world,
then the crisis will never end for the developed world.
Peace, self-reliant development, fighting poverty, cancelling the debts of the third world are the only way for people to remain in their homelands.
The SYRIZA government will implement the provision of Law No. 3907/2011, for migrants, which requires their registration.
After this first step we will explore the possibilities of repatriation or legal settlement of undocumented migrants.
The completion of this inventory will allow us to claim the start of a serious negotiation within the EU for a
fair and realistic distribution of part of the migrant population to all European countries, according to their capacities.
The practices of mass arrest and detention of undocumented migrants are illegal, inhumane and extremely costly, and have been repeatedly criticized
by Greek courts, human rights organizations and the Council of Europe.
The insistence on detaining migrants, even beyond 18 months, had created a humanitarian crisis in detention centres and police stations, endangering the
health and lives of migrants and police officers, and had caused the country to be repeatedly condemned by the European Court of Human Rights.
SYRIZA proposes a different path in the framework of the new immigration policy, which it has already launched:
 We organise the operation of first reception centres, which will meet the requirements of respect for human rights.
This is where the specific needs of persons arriving in our country will be identified and addressed immediately.
They will then be issued with documents establishing their rights and referred to appropriate open reception centres.
European resources exist for these centres, but they remain unused.
 We put an end to the practice of illegal expulsions.
Deportation is a complex administrative procedure, for the implementation of which the agreement of the state of origin or transit is needed, which in the Greek case is not a given.
 We ensure that voluntary repatriation programmes for legal departure from the country are generalised through the International Organisation for Migration, with the guarantees of international conventions.
Voluntary repatriation is the most sustainable and effective return policy.
1.3.3 Gender equality - Sexual orientation and gender identity - Rights of minorities and conscientious objectors[a] Gender equalityAs is well known, policies and measures to support and promote gender equality and equal treatment between men and women require knowledge and understanding of the gendered social reality in crisis Greece.
SYRIZA maintains the claim for gender equality at the centre of its political and militant agenda.
SYRIZA's Programmatic CommitmentsWe seek, as far as possible, the horizontal integration of the gender dimension in the measures and policies that we will implement as a Government,
through a reformed and updated National Gender Equality Action Plan (NSDEF), which will focus on issues such as (indicatively):
 Improving the legislative framework for maternity protection,
particularly for workers with flexible forms of employment (fixed-term contracts).
 Strengthening positive and integrated actions in favour of unemployed women, giving
priority to those groups that are in the most difficult situation (single parents, long-term unemployed, migrant women),
but also to female youth unemployment.
 Removing gender-related obstacles to women's employment and career advancement
and measures to reconcile work and family life.
 Recognition and support for every woman's right of access to contraceptive methods and artificial termination of pregnancy
, as well as to high quality health care for pregnancy, childbirth, post-natal care and medically assisted reproduction, in accordance with the decisions of the International Planned Parenthood Federation (IPPF).
 Achieving a quality Education that ensures equal rights for students, regardless of gender, race, religion, culture, sexual orientation, sexual orientation, ability, etc., and is based on gender equality and equality of opportunity.
 Awareness-raising of the Greek public opinion on the issues of equality and the elimination of gender discrimination
and, above all, the understanding of its importance for social justice, freedom and democracy.
 Upgrading and strengthening of the General Secretariat for Gender Equality, as well as upgrading and modernisation of the KETHI, by revising its institutional framework.
In particular, SYRIZA considers the fight against violence against women a key priority and will proceed with the adoption of relevant legislative and institutional measures
, starting with the immediate ratification by the Parliament of the Council of Europe's Convention "on preventing
and combating violence against women and domestic violence" (Istanbul Convention),
the continuation and upgrading of the support structures for battered women (Counselling Centres and Shelters) throughout the Territory,
with the assistance of the Local Authorities in their effective operation,
but also the improvement and strengthening of the legislation concerning the treatment of crimes such as rape and trafficking in human beings, in the light of new, more modern treatments (such as new forms of electronic sexual harassment/bullying).
[b] Sexual orientation and gender identityThe struggle for the rights and equality of people from the LGBT community is an integral part of the struggle for social liberation.
In Greece, heterosexual relationships are defined as the only normal ones, resulting in the oppression of lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT) people, and anyone else who threatens heterosexual normality.
We need immediate measures that overturn this reality and guarantee equal rights for all.
The programmatic commitments of ΣΥΡΙΖΑ Immediate adoption of the bill on the extended civil partnership, which has already been drafted and submitted for consultation.
 Recognition for all couples, regardless of the sex of the two partners, of the right to civil marriage.
Also the right of free movement of homosexual couples in EU countries, as well as
those resulting from the institutional recognition of their relationship in another country.
 Amend the anti-racism law to criminalise any discrimination on the grounds of biological or social sex, sexual orientation and gender identity and to prohibit hate speech.
 Adding to Laws 3304/2005, 3896/2010 and 3769/2009 and gender identity discrimination in employment and services.
 Introduce a law to allow bi-sexual persons to change documents without conditions.
[c] Rights of minorities and conscientious objectors
MinoritiesThe defence and safeguarding of the rights of minorities are the cornerstone of the implementation of the values of a democratic state governed by the rule of law and are an integral part of the emancipatory project of the Left.
After all, the peaceful resolution of minority issues is, as the bloody history of the 20th century has shown, a precondition for the future cohesion and development of all societies.
The programmatic commitments of ΣΥΡΙΖΑ Ratification of the already signed by Greece Convention - Framework Convention on the Rights of Minorities of the Council of Europe.
 Signing and ratification of the European Charter for Regional or Minority Languages.
 Gradual increase of the special quota for the admission of minorities to TEI until full parity of minorities with other Greek citizens.
For the Roma, in particular:
 Management of Community funds concerning Roma with the participation of their representatives.
 Special programmes to provide decent housing for the tent dwellers.
 Establishment of a single type of product marketing licence, valid nationwide.
 Upgrading of the Medical and Social Centres operating for Roma and establishment of new ones where needed
Objectors συνείδησης Submission of the institution of alternative social service to a civilian authority of another Ministry outside the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Defence.
 Abolition of the conscience check committee and automatic equation of the duration of alternative service with that of military service.
 Right to recognition of the status of conscientious objector before and after enlistment in the Armed Forces and possibility of alternative service in NGOs and social organizations.
1.3.4 Security bodies: from repression to protection of citizensSYRIZA seeks to transform security bodies from repressive mechanisms of the state into bodies that effectively ensure the protection of citizens.
For this reason, the reconstruction and reorganization of Public Order and Security, and Civil Protection are among the priorities of SYRIZA's government policy.
The first government of the Left In this direction, the following steps were taken in the past period:
 Redesign - Restart, pilot operation and expansion of the institution "Neighbourhood Policeman", in 36 new areas, with spectacular results and huge acceptance by citizens and the local community.
 Foot patrols in targeted areas of municipalities in Attica.
 Mobile police units operating in remote, hard-to-reach areas of the country.
 Strengthening of the anti-trafficking service.
 Strengthening of the services for combating racist violence.
 Establishment of an office for dealing with police arbitrariness.
SYRIZA's programmatic commitments But much more needs to be done, in the context of SYRIZA's policy, which is structured along the following axes:
 Changes in the institutional framework of operation: Submission of the EL.AS. to a bipartisan parliamentary committee that will select its leadership,
for which there will be objective criteria of police and scientific competence.
In this way, the members of the Hellenic Police will be freed from party control and clientelism,
their knowledge and experience will be exploited and the independence of the leadership of the Hellenic Police will be ensured. so that it can freely carry out its work.
The EL.AS. will gradually be freed from all military remnants (ranks, organisation, appearance, training)
and will be transformed into a highly specialised civilian service with its own scientific services,
while maintaining, of course, the discipline required for bodies with special tasks.
Immediate dismantling of the neo-Nazi Golden Dawn cells that remain in the security forces.
Develop and implement a comprehensive democratisation plan.
Emphasis, both preventive and repressive, on the efforts to form neo-Nazi cells
and their activities within the security forces.
We seek to establish a bipartisan parliamentary committee, with the participation of political parties, the leadership and representatives of the Fire Brigade employees, representatives of the local government and scientists, to record the needs
and draw up a comprehensive plan to improve the services provided by the Fire Brigade.
 Policing and not police democracy: The use of special forces to suppress popular mobilizations is prohibited.
The personnel of these special forces are integrated into police stations or merged into a mobile police force that will be on the side of citizens on a 24-hour basis
or staff decentralised services to deal with crises (natural disasters, extreme crime, etc.).
It is forbidden to use means that are dangerous to health (e.g. chemicals, water jets, etc.).
Policing is separated from the pre-trial functions and the auxiliary function for the judicial authorities.
That is why we staff the Judicial Police with specially trained personnel.
 Modern counter-crime policy: Crime is not dealt with by police measures alone.
The four-pronged anti-crime policy of "prevention, deterrence, suppression, solving" needs a combined policy with the first concern being to stop the social marginalisation of a large part of the population (especially young people)
and the pushing into illegality of people who need help, such as drug addicts.
The fight against organised crime, especially economic crime, requires a high level of expertise, scientific capacity and technical means.
Everyday petty crime requires more and specially trained police officers in urban centres
, especially in economically and socially deprived areas.
 Modern training of a high standard: A Police Academy integrated into the Higher Education is necessary for the training and retraining of all levels of the EL.AS personnel.
The upgrading of the Fire Academy is also necessary.
Their mission will be to provide students with solid knowledge both in purely police and firefighting fields and in fields of social and legal sciences..
 Transparent and meritocratic system of evaluation, judgments and promotions:
The evaluation system of the executives of the EL.AΣ. and the Fire Brigade is centralized and opaque.
It needs to be changed by setting up an Evaluation Board, in which a representative of the employees will also participate,
where it will be possible to notify the scores to the person being judged as well as the right of appeal to an appellate body.
 Psychological support: The psychological support introduced after 2011 is ineffective.
Police officers who ask for it are fingered and become the subject of derogatory comments in the service.
It must be made compulsory for all staff at regular intervals and, on an exceptional basis, as often as necessary, for staff involved in violent incidents in the performance of their duties.
 Effective control of racist violence, inhuman behaviour and torture of citizens:
Such incidents of dereliction of duty are currently not dealt with in an effective manner.
The usual procedure of the NECs, instead of revealing and dealing with such incidents, covers them up and thus encourages them.
Therefore, on the one hand, we are planning to create an independent agency, outside the supervision of the Ministry of Public Security, which will receive the complaints, collect the data, process them and refer them to the judiciary.
On the other hand, mandatory staff training, dialogue and rewards in cases of prevention and detection of such phenomena.
 Police officer's advocate: The institution of the police officer's advocate works successfully in other European countries.
The police officer's advocate will investigate reports and complaints of violations of police officers' official rights,
make recommendations to resolve problems that arise for bureaucratic reasons
, and prepare an annual report to be submitted to the bipartisan parliamentary oversight committee.
 Redesign and strengthen Civil Protection.
Civil Protection acts on the basis of a three-pronged approach: prevention - response - recovery.
Its planning and actions are mainly developed at the level of regions and municipalities, hence the main actors of the FP are the first and second level Local Authorities.
The model of subordination of the IP to the Ministry of Public Order and Citizen Protection is a Greek original.
We are reviewing the institution to bring it under central governance, as is the case in many other European countries.
1.4 Taxation: a redistributive toolThe dominant neoliberal view of taxation prefers to tax low incomes and exempt high incomes,
arguing that high incomes can be moved to countries with more favourable tax regimes.
SYRIZA's policy treats taxation as a redistributive tool that ensures a fair contribution of all citizens,
according to their means,
to the financing of public goods and services,
without distorting economic activity.
1.4.1 A fair, simple and stable tax systemOur government has been forced to impose a series of difficult tax measures, but has managed to make many of them socially fair:
The increase in the solidarity levy, the
tax on profits and ships, and the
increase in luxury taxes
are measures that almost exclusively burden high incomes.
Our plan includes a more comprehensive tax reform that will establish a simple, fair and stable tax system that will ensure transparency and easier administration,
provide citizens with a sense of equality vis-à-vis the state and certainty about their future obligations.
With regard to excise duties (such as VAT), we intend to simplify the refund and reimbursement procedures
and to gradually correct any injustices resulting from the increase in rates and the abolition of discounts on islands.
At the same time, we will strengthen electronic transactions to improve tax compliance and collectability.
As far as income taxation is concerned, we will proceed with a radical overhaul with a change of presumptions, equalization of rates for each source of income and strong progressivity
to shift the burden from lower incomes to higher incomes.
At the same time, we will move to limit exemptions and preferential regimes that offer opportunities for tax avoidance.
As regards property taxes, and in particular ENFIA, we will proceed with an adjustment of property values
and the imposition of progressive rates so that there is no loss of revenue.
In addition, we will proceed with the imposition of the property register in 2015, where all movable and immovable property will be recorded in order to determine the taxpaying capacity of all citizens.
1.4.2 War against tax evasionRestoring tax fairness and conscience is a major challenge that requires a successful crackdown on tax evasion.
Although many have promised it, we are the only ones who have the political will to make it happen
as we are not dependent on big financial interests, as demonstrated by the imposition of the TV advertising tax that was postponed for five years by previous governments.
Beyond the political will, we also need specific conditions, many of which we have already included in the agreement with the partners and will be a priority in the coming period:
We need to tighten penalties and simplify the procedures for their enforcement.
Penalties should go as far as full confiscation of undeclared income or assets that are not justified.
Sanctions should be made simple and transparent and procedures should be put in place to speed up adjudication.
In addition, a strong and staffed tax administration with technical means and operational planning is needed.
On this front, we have already shown the way with the cross-checking of bank account and income tax returns, the
acquisition of software to detect VAT fraud,
the drafting of a law and operational strategy for smuggling of fuel, tobacco products and alcohol.
Finally, international cooperation is needed, both for the transfer of know-how and the adoption of good practices and for the
provision of information on the acquisition of assets abroad.
Our government intends to submit a request to foreign countries to disclose the assets acquired by Greeks during the crisis.
In addition, we will proceed with voluntary disclosure of undeclared deposits and other financial assets in order to impose the taxes due.
2. PRODUCTIVE RECONSTRUCTION AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENTThe strategic horizon of neoliberalism is undoubtedly the reduction of labour costs/wage shares, the
liquidation of uncompetitive enterprises, the
new type of capital accumulation,
the concentration and restructuring of the economy to maximise the profitability of capital.
Against this strategy, which is the strategy of capital, SYRIZA is fighting with all its forces in order to make another orientation socially dominant.
That of strengthening employment,
by shifting to innovation and quality to boost competitiveness,
by boosting liquidity as much as possible,
but also by strengthening cooperative social economy ventures.
Two different orientations are clashing in a battle that will be constant, open and under constant negotiation in the coming period.
SYRIZA's policy of productive reconstruction not only responds to the need to reverse the collapse of the Greek economy
but also answers to long-standing issues concerning the causes of the crisis of the neoliberal growth model in Greece.
For this reason, it encapsulates almost all the issues facing the Greek economy and society:
long-standing problems of the structure of the productive model, the
institutional framework for the development of productive activities,
relations between productive actors and between them and the state, the
utilization of underemployed human and natural productive potential,
Greece's new position in the international division of labour
and the formation of a new correlation of forces in the Greek economy and society with the aim of their democratic transformation.
In this sense, productive reconstruction will not be an easy and technocratic affair but a long, socio-political and conflictual process of breakthroughs, ruptures and transformations.
2.1 New productive model based on labour, knowledge and innovation.2.2.1.The character and objectives of productive reconstruction The strategic orientation of SYRIZA is a new productive - developmental model, which is in open and constant confrontation with neoliberalism as it presents the following characteristics:
 Formulates new criteria, priorities and means for the country's development based on the most precious asset we have: human labour.
 It favours popular participation and popular initiative as a capable productive force.
 Redistributes income, wealth and power to labour for social justice
but also for developmental reasons, instead of the "internal devaluation" of the memoranda which reinforces inequalities, which is extremely anti-developmental.
 Upgrades work, and exploits and invests in Greece's highly skilled productive potential,
instead of the unproductive destruction of wages and labour relations that leads to recession, high unemployment and emigration of scientists and thus limits development potential.
 Founding its dynamism on scientific knowledge and research,
the specialised technology,
productive and organisational innovations,
and the creation of products and services that are of high quality, differentiated and of high added value,
instead of pursuing the continuous reduction of "labour costs" and the privatisation of public goods and services.
 Ensures and expands public goods.
It protects and exploits public property on development and social criteria, instead of selling it off.
 It uses the institutionally reconstituted state as a promoter of reconstruction, an engine of growth and a guarantor of equality for healthy entrepreneurship,
instead of limiting its role to creating a 'favourable' business environment by systematically
against workers' rights
and the protection of the natural environment.
 It operates in a pluralistic economic system that is composed of a restructured public sector, a private sector
where clear rules and small and medium-sized enterprises prevail, and, as SYRIZA seeks,
a new, thriving social economy sector that invests in the principles of solidarity and cooperativity,
instead of the monoculture of large multinational companies.
 Protects the environment and manages natural resources sustainably to ensure the long-term sustainability of the new model,
instead of wasting resources and constantly degrading the environment.
 It is based on the principle of regional convergence of the country with a systematic effort to reduce the prevailing disparities and imbalances.
 Acting actively for the upgrading of the country in the international environment by developing practical and mutually beneficial productive alliances and convergences with both the countries of the European South and other countries internationally.
With productive reconstruction, SYRIZA seeks the following: The coverage of basic social needs by reducing and gradually eliminating the mismatch between the basic needs of the population
and the orientation of productive activity towards their coverage.
This concerns the production of agricultural, agri-food, food and knowledge-intensive industrial and labour-intensive goods, and the
production of quality goods and services for housing, clothing, transport and health.
On the supply side, we will make use of the high education and training of the Greek workforce by limiting the leakage of labour.
On the demand side, we plan to recapture part of the internal market by substituting part of the imports
and, in combination with appropriate research and design policies,
to increase exports with a focus on quality,
standardisation, technological competence and innovation.
 The all-round development of the country and the creation of new wealth distributed equitably among the citizenry.
 The sustainable balancing of the current account.
We are exploiting the export-oriented potential of many sectors of the Greek economy.
Our policy aims at the structural transformation of the import-export relationship, which it promotes on the basis of the qualitative comparative advantages of the Greek economy.
That is, we are not just seeking to improve the trade balance, but to change the mix of products produced in Greece.
This transformation will meet the needs of workers and the environment, not the other way round.
 Industrialisation. We seek the development of a modern, endogenous Greek industry.
Our aim is to increase the contribution of manufacturing to GDP from the current 9% to 15%.
 Fighting unemployment and upgrading employment.
 The protection of natural resources.
The conservation and sustainable use of finite domestic resources is an almost necessary option in order to operate the economy on the basis of its internal needs
and to ensure its long-term developmental sustainability.
The good state of the environment,
the conservation of landscapes,
the continuous improvement of the urban and built environment,
environmental infrastructure, to the extent that it is restored and enhanced,
constitute a key comparative and competitive advantage of Greece in sectors such as agriculture, livestock and food,
energy production, tourism and other quality services,
but even manufacturing and industry if we properly transform production methods with savings
and increase resource efficiency (energy, raw materials, etc.)
and organize them into rationally zoned industrial areas.
2.1.2 Planning for the recovery of the Greek economySYRIZA's planning for the recovery of the Greek economy includes, among others, the following elements:
 Securing the necessary financial resources and tools.
 The effort to strengthen the competitiveness of the Greek economy through structural changes, rather than through wage cuts.
 Specific development priorities with regard to the actors of productive activity.
Financial resources and instrumentsThe prospect of recovery of the Greek economy is through the reversal of the financial stranglehold of the treaty.
The financial instruments that will now be available to us will include:
 The recapitalisation of the banking system, including smaller and cooperative banking institutions, to be completed by 1-1-2016.
 The new NSRF in which we have secured a doubling of the advance for the new 2014-20 programming period.
 The creation of a new development bank.
 The use of the new Juncker Investment Programme.
 The financing we secured through the agreement with the EBRD, the
activation of the investment arm of the World Bank
and the new partnership with the European Investment Bank.
Strengthening the competitiveness of the Greek economyThe effort to shift the pressure for the recovery of the competitiveness of the Greek economy from the wages to the structural changes will be promoted through: The
implementation of the law on the simplification of business licensing,
The establishment of Business Service Centres,
Our plan to reduce prices includes: a) the review of the operational framework of the Competition Commission,
b) reforms in targeted sectors dominated by oligopolistic interests, such as retail and fuel,
The upgrading of the institutional infrastructure regarding the attraction of Foreign Direct Investment, in
order to take advantage of the possibilities offered by the Juncker Plan,
to exploit public property through the new fund that will replace the TAPED, and to
facilitate partnerships between Greek companies and strategic investors from abroad.
Institutions of productive activityThe institutions of productive activity to which SYRIZA's development planning is oriented are:
 Small and medium-sized enterprises that an active policy of broadening the export base will make it easier for them to take the step beyond our country's borders,
 The start-ups and innovative businesses that will exploit the new ecosystem around the research infrastructure of Greek universities,
 The new forms of co-operativism in the agricultural sector that will be oriented towards entrepreneurship and product processing,
 Foreign investment with respect to the workforce and the environmental specificity of our country and
 The new social enterprises that will be created when the new institutional framework we are preparing is completed.
2.2 Institutional changes and democratic reforms for productive reconstruction We support the processes of productive reconstruction, inter alia, with horizontal governmental interventions in the form of radical changes and democratic reforms that affect everything: society, the economy, the state.
We have already presented the package of changes for the institutional reconstruction of the political system and the state,
where transformations such as those concerning the political system, public administration and local government are also crucial for productive reconstruction.
The same applies to changes and reforms presented in other sections of this programme
such as those on education, scientific research and culture.
This chapter presents transformations that support productive reconstruction in an even more direct way:
transformations concerning labour relations, the financial system, spatial planning, innovation, the social economy, public works, digital policy, etc.
2.2.1 Protecting labour and boosting employmentA characteristic feature of the two previous memoranda was the generalised deregulation of labour relations in an attempt to forcibly change the employment model.
The aim was none other than the domination of the model of underpaid and over-flexible employment relationship without personal dignity for the worker and without guaranteed fundamental trade union rights.
The dismantling of labour relations is at the core of the extreme neoliberal experiment that has been applied in a violent way against our people.
This dissolution was a political choice.
A choice that tried in vain to justify the absurd neoliberal recipe, which
perversely makes the reduction of labour costs a fundamental factor in increasing the competitiveness of the economy.
Thus, the so-called "internal devaluation", i.e. the reduction of labour costs,
mainly by cutting the wages of workers in the private and public sector,
but also by restricting labour rights in general, has been the credo of the neoliberal policies implemented in the previous years.
SYRIZA's strategic orientation In absolute contrast to the neoliberal doctrine, in SYRIZA's strategic vision, the guarantee of self-reliant protection of workers in combination with the institutional upgrading of working conditions constitute the basic factors of increased productivity with its economic and social dimension.
Therefore, SYRIZA's strategic goal in the field of labour is summarised as follows:
 Ensure full and stable employment for all, while guaranteeing a decent living wage.
 Ensuring trade union freedoms and collective autonomy.
These form the core of the paradigm we seek to dominate the work.
The compromise and the prospects that are opening upThe restoration of collective bargaining was at the heart of a battle that we did not manage to win during the short period of SYRIZA's government.
However, despite the false impressions deliberately created by the defenders of the old political establishment,
the August agreement leaves the field open for the restoration and upgrading of the institutional framework of labour protection,
especially in the field of collective labour law, which has suffered the greatest deregulation.
We have negotiated hard and we have achieved: The new agreement should not include labour deregulation measures,
 The deregulated field of collective bargaining should be put on the track of re-regulation,
 Our only commitment for the future in the field of collective labour relations is to regulate it in line with "European good practices" and in accordance with the principles of the International Labour Organisation,
 Our only commitment for the future in the field of individual labour relations is to fight the multiple versions of undeclared and unregulated work, 
The first government of the Left Examples of the policy we seek to pursue were already evident during the previous period of SYRIZA's government, despite the exhaustive negotiations abroad.
Among other things, we have achieved: The halt of the general deregulation of labour relations.
 The protection of the institutional conditions of the National General Collective Labour Agreement for the whole of 2015.
 The abolition of the undemocratic institution of the political conscription of strikers
 The restructuring of the Labour Inspectorate and the improvement of the effectiveness of inspections,
in order to reduce undeclared work and terrorism in the workplace.
 The cancellation of public sector dismissals.
The reinstatement of those unfairly dismissed and the abolition of the public sector suspension.
 The cancellation of the collective dismissals in Thessaloniki Metro.
 The immediate repulsion of the attempt of the media to worsen the labour relations of their employees, with the threat of dismissals.
 The restriction of the contracts of contract cleaning companies in the public sector by re-hiring cleaning workers
and assigning projects directly to cleaning crew workers.
 The inclusion, by August 2015, of 106,693 unemployed people in subsidized programs.
In the next two months this number will rise to 123,000 unemployed, and by February 2016 this number will rise to 210,000 thousand;
- We have included 65,000 young people in the "Youth Guarantee" programmes
and we have secured the inclusion in the next year of 69,800 more;
- We have improved and announced the Public Benefit Labour Programme in municipalities, ministries and regions, for 52,626 jobs.
 We put a stop to the waste of resources in training and internship programs
and our redesign significantly increased the amounts received by the unemployed from 25-40% to 60-75%.
 We found 75,000 UNEMPLOYED unemployed while participating in various programs.
We have already paid 45,000 unemployed people (despite the great understaffing of the services, employees work intensively, responsibly and fully aware of their mission).
 The one-off subsidy for unemployed, dismissed workers through the relevant OAED appropriations.
SYRIZA's programmatic commitments SYRIZA's goal is to inactivate the hitherto dominant neoliberal plan for labour,
by aggressively pursuing policies with a left and social orientation.
Therefore, the SYRIZA government, immediately after the elections, is focusing on the following steps:
 We are immediately launching the consultation process with internationally renowned experts under the supervision of the International Labour Organisation and the European Parliament
so that a new legal framework for collective bargaining can be put in place,
trade union law and the protection of workers from collective dismissals,
in line with the best practices of the European Social Model.
 We bring the Council of Europe's revised European Social Charter to a vote immediately,
which is today the most advanced international text for the protection of social and labour rights.
 We adopt a new legislative framework that redefines the scope of collective bargaining.
This reform will in itself guarantee a smooth increase in the minimum wage.
 We continue to upgrade the SEPE with direct staffing initiatives,
reorganisation of services and legislative interventions to improve the functioning of the College.
 We ensure the effective judicial and extrajudicial protection of employees and the acceleration of procedures with interventions such as:
-- Establishment of out-of-court or pre-trial justice institutions in the first instance, along the lines of those successfully operating in other European countries.
--Enabling enhanced and binding forms of mediation and arbitration of individual labour disputes within the competences of the upgraded SEPE.
--Simplification and codification of labour legislation.
--Reform of the relevant provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure for the priority hearing of pending labour cases by specialised judges at all levels.
 We are establishing a new institutional framework for the internal control of companies in the field of occupational health and safety for greater efficiency,
transparency and participation of workers and trade unions,
with an emphasis on information and prevention.
A new legislative framework for public bodies and public sector organisations involved in the promotion and control of Health and Safety.
 We are establishing a National System of Health and Safety of Employees, which will operate within the competent Ministries with the contribution and control of the Employees' Collective Bodies and the relevant public control services.
In this context, a special "Occupational Risk Insurance" fund will be created for all workers.
2.2.2 Restoring liquidity - Banking system at the service of the real economy and societyNeoliberalism has turned the banking sector into activities far from its traditional role of supporting the financing needs of the real economy for the benefit of society.
The uncontrolled operation of markets and the over-leveraging of banks led to the global financial crisis,
from which banks survived thanks to abundant state funding.
At the same time, according to the neoliberal model, "red" loans constitute a large market,
offering huge profit margins, through the capture of the private property of borrowers,
who want to be left unprotected against the jurisdiction of banks and aggressive funds (hedge and vulture funds), and through the
control of the reorganization of the business sector of the economy
and the oligopolistic concentration of business activity, in favour of the interconnectedness and the oligarchy.
In Greece, the abundant flows of money, which arrived in the country in the years before the crisis,
instead of being used for a sustainable model of economic and social development,
were squandered for the expansion of the sinful triangle of the banking-media-political system
and clientelism in society at large.
In the way the banks operated in the years before the crisis,
the dismantling of the productive base was reinforced,
easy, immediate and excessive profit was pursued, to the benefit of major shareholders and managements,
and tax evasion and the "black" economy were increased.
When the crisis erupted, the banks continued to finance the "payday lenders", ensuring the survival of the complex and the large and small interests, at a time when,
due to the credit crunch, viable businesses and activities ran out of funding and liquidity.
At the same time, through the banks, a large part of the mobile wealth escaped abroad
and accumulated profits,
without cross-checking data and without checking whether they are legal and whether they have been taxed.
The decisions of the previous governments on the banking sectorAfter the 2012 elections, banks were recapitalised with public money through the HFSF,
without the recapitalisation being combined with addressing the problem of non-performing loans in
order to clean up the banks' balance sheets and provide liquidity to the real economy.
At the same time, the old administrations were protected, without being evaluated and judged for their actions,
and the oligopolistic restructuring of the banking sector and the over-concentration of the banking market prevailed,
with the four systemic banks absorbing most of the other banks, including Agrotiki and Postal Savings Bank.
Then the re-privatisation of the banks started, which was done in a way that caused a significant devaluation of the HFSF's shares, i.e. the state's assets in the banks.
At the same time, bank-centric solutions to the problem of "red" loans were launched
and the uncontrolled sale of loan packages to aggressive funds was prepared, without any protection for the main house and vulnerable households.
The strategic orientation and policy objectives of SYRIZAThe SYRIZA programme, which differs from both the neoliberal model and the decisions of previous governments,
aims to liberate the banking sector from the root causes of the crisis, with economically viable and socially just solutions,
and to restore its healthy operation, so that it can once again play its role as a blood donor of the economy for the benefit of society.
The policy objectives of SYRIZA are the following: Combining recapitalization with a comprehensive and final solution to the complex problem of non-performing ("red") loans, in an
economically viable and socially just way,
in order to consolidate the balance sheets of banks and release liquidity to the real economy.
Due to the crisis and austerity, non-performing ("red") loans have reached explosive levels,
burdening the assets of banks,
which cannot provide liquidity to the real economy.
The effective treatment of "red" loans is a
key point for strengthening the viability of the banking system and a prerequisite for the recovery of the economy.
 Settlement of all debts to banks, the State and social security funds,
which will provide a substantial relief to hundreds of thousands of debtors and lead to the restart of the economy.
 Protection of the main residence and vulnerable households, based on income and asset criteria.
 Adjusting obligations to the living needs and real financial capacity of debtors,
so that repayment is made from the surplus and not from the household's savings,
without horizontal write-offs that benefit deliberate defaulters.
 Active support for borrowers, so that they are not alone and unprotected against the banks.
 Breaking the interlocking of banks - media - political system and ending mismanagement and discriminatory treatment of individuals and legal entities.
An end to the bailouts and loan restructurings, which sustain corruption and clientelism.
The available resources will be directed to productive sectors and activities in the real economy.
 Avoid further concentration of the banking sector.
The Greek banking system is already over-concentrated and cannot accommodate new mergers.
 Safeguarding the public interest and public assets in banks.
The compromise and the prospects that are opening upThe new agreement ensured the recapitalisation of banks in 2015.
Indeed, after the Eurogroup statement, depositors' concerns about a bail-in were finally removed,
creating the necessary conditions for the restoration of confidence and the return of deposits.
At the same time, it paves the way for banks to access the ECB's liquidity provision
and to increase the value of eligible collateral.
As a result, the foundations have been laid for the gradual restoration of liquidity levels in the banking system
and for the removal of capital controls, with a view to the beginning of 2016.
In addition, the country's forthcoming participation in the quantitative easing programme
and the settlement of public debt after the first review will lead to a rapid decline in the country's borrowing rates.
This will gradually reconnect banks to the international interbank market, further increasing the liquidity of the system
and significantly reducing banks' funding costs.
This creates the right conditions for lower lending rates for borrowers.
Finally, the agreement provides for the gradual return of banks to the private sector.
But this is expected to happen in the medium term, when the economy has recovered and therefore the value of banks has increased.
Thus, with the inclusion of the bank shares in the assets of the new public wealth fund, there will be significant revenues for the Greek State,
which will reduce the cost of recapitalisation and the public debt in equal measure.
The first government of Αριστεράς We have effectively stopped the auctions of primary residences.
No household lost its home.
In fact, while the Institutions insisted on limiting the protection of first homes and the uncontrolled sale of loan packages to aggressive funds,
these developments were averted after tough negotiations.
 We insisted on maintaining the limits of Law 3869/2010 ("Katseli") for over-indebted households, extending the protection it offers to weak borrowers.
In fact, the law includes not only debts to banks but also to the State, in order to regulate the debts of households as a whole,
ensuring that reasonable living expenses can be covered.
It was also clarified that the law also protects those who have debts from a small business that has closed, such as former small traders, etc.
In addition, recent changes to the same law allow for the cancellation of total debt (banks, public and social security funds) up to €20,000 for households with no income and no property.
The new arrangement offers tens of thousands of households a definitive relief from the burdens of the past, giving them a real chance to restart.
 We prevented the uncontrolled sale of loan packages to aggressive funds.
A specific study will be completed in 2015 on the most appropriate mechanisms to transfer the most problematic NPLs off banks' balance sheets,
legally protecting the rights of borrowers.
 Unlike in the past, we have ensured the participation of small non-systemic banks (Attica and Cooperative banks) in the recapitalisation programme,
which are important for the existence of competition in the banking sector and for supporting local society and entrepreneurship.
 We have initiated the establishment of a Development Bank, a national development institution in line with the most successful European models,
to address the problem of adequate financing of the real economy
and support the productive reconstruction of our country.
The programmatic commitments of ΣΥΡΙΖΑ Continuous interventions and improvements in the terms of capital controls, a process that has started and is ongoing,
mainly in the direction of substantially facilitating business transactions.
 Activation of the Government Council on Private Debt and effective support for the work through the establishment of a Special Secretariat,
for the continuous monitoring of the problem of "red loans".
 Implementation and improvement of the Code of Conduct that banks must observe towards borrowers in the regulation of their loans,
so as to ensure that the reasonable living costs of those who are genuinely unable to meet their obligations are covered,
without horizontal write-offs, which benefit deliberate defaulters.
 Objective determination of creditworthiness and repayment capacity by establishing a new independent authority.
A transparent institutional framework will be put in place, which will take into account income and asset criteria, as well as all obligations.
 Actively support borrowers by setting up an information network on financial and legal issues.
 Take care of the most vulnerable households through the creation of a permanent social safety net.
 Transparency and accountability in the HFSF.
 Evaluation of boards and senior management and effective control of corporate governance and remuneration in banks through the HFSF.
Strengthening transparency in banking.
 Activation of the institution of the Supervisory Council, with the essential role of the Representatives of the Greek State, in order to ensure that liquidity is used for the benefit of depositors, borrowers and the Greek economy in general, as provided for by Law 3723/2008.
 A new model for the recruitment and deployment of human resources in banks, with transparency and meritocracy.
At the same time, in order to instil a sense of social justice and a new democratic and social ethos, all cases of mismanagement in banks will be checked and responsibilities will be attributed in all directions,
while the cross-checking of bank accounts and various lists has already begun, in order to identify undeclared income, using banking know-how.
2.2.3 Effective use of Community development fundsThe main problem with the use of development funds from the Structural Funds over the past years has been the inability of public central and regional institutions to carry out long-term development planning and management,
and to monitor the implementation of any development objectives.
The absence of planning led to the implementation of programmes that were characterised by their fragmented nature
and favoured the reproduction of established pockets of political and economic power at all levels of the State and local government.
In addition, the shrinking of the Public Investment Programme (PIP) has been a long-standing policy choice of previous governments.
10 years ago, the annual MFF was larger in absolute terms than it is today.
Also, 50% of the higher MFF was national resources.
Today, the total MFF has significantly fewer resources and, in addition, the national part of the MFF is only 1/10 of the total.
SYRIZA's strategic orientation The NSRF covers a very wide range of projects and interventions, from very small to huge infrastructure projects.
Regardless of its size, the NSRF should be seen as a tool for implementing strategic planning - an instrument, not an end in itself.
Our logic for the organization of the NSRF programmes is the implementation of the interventions prescribed for productive reconstruction in the direction of SYRIZA's programme for stabilization, the response to the humanitarian crisis and productive reconstruction.
We also need to move away from the logic of point interventions that are too often linked to clientelistic interests.
The NSRF allows for the implementation of strategic reforms related to the response to the humanitarian crisis, the
modernisation of the public sector and e-government, the
re-launch of the economy, the simplification of the business environment
and access to finance for SMEs.
The overthrow of the neoliberal growth model - which is based on low-wage competitiveness - must be accompanied by the exploitation of the 'knowledge economy',
our ability to innovate and produce high-quality and value-added products and services.
Knowledge economy strategies can be the vehicle for this paradigm shift, the
opportunity for a different growth path and the framework for addressing structural weaknesses in the Greek economy
, especially youth unemployment.
In this direction, we will create a comprehensive institutional framework of information,
support and guidance that will facilitate the access of young scientists and professionals to the necessary financial resources and appropriate know-how.
We will thus break the privileged access to financial resources and programmes that have been held by big financial interests all along
and maximise the effectiveness of programmes based on social criteria.
Overall, the policies for financing the economy should be a set of decisions that together constitute a coherent strategy.
It is not just about mobilising financial resources but a broader mobilisation of human resources, of slow productive potential, of a
stock of ideas and of a combination of good and effective administrations and public services with private and social initiative.
The first government of Αριστεράς We have accelerated the implementation of the essential conditions for the activation of the NSRF 2014-2020 programmes (Monitoring Committees, approval of selection criteria and programme specification, secondary legislation, satisfaction of conditionalities, approval of the national strategy for smart specialisation, approval of the Management and Control System).
With the completion of all preparatory actions in the current phase, the Programmes are now fully operational.
 We have effectively addressed the issue of liquidity by acting decisively towards the full restoration of normality in the payment flow of NSRF projects.
In coordination with the General Accounting Office, the flow of funding gradually increased and reached €350 million for the month of August.
 We signed new loan agreements on favourable terms with the European Investment Bank for a €1 billion loan.
These funds will be used to cover the national participation part of the 2014-2020 NSRF programmes.
It is worth noting that a significant part of the funds (€300 million - twice the usual advance share) will be disbursed immediately in order to strengthen the liquidity of the Structural Funds programmes.
 We have negotiated and succeeded in getting the European Commission to bring forward specific proposals for Greece to facilitate the liquidity provided by the Structural Funds.
More specifically, in the coming days, the European Parliament is expected to vote on the revision of Regulation 1303/2013 and the European Council is expected to approve the following provisions:
--Increase of the co-financing rate to 100% for the period 2007-2013 (from 95%).
This increase will lead to an inflow of around €500 million of Community assistance;
-Direct reimbursement of the 5% of the current NSRF normally withheld until the declaration of completion of the programmes in March 2017.
This measure could add an additional €500 million.
- In particular, for the 2014-2010 programming period, the Commission proposes to increase the pre-financing (advance payment) of Cohesion programmes by 7 percentage points, which
could add €1 billion to the funds available in the first years of the period.
As already announced by the European Commission, these additional amounts for Greece will be available in October 2015.
In addition to the above, the new SYRIZA government will continue to raise at the highest possible level, as it has done throughout its 7 months of government,
the reasonable request for the extension of the payment of Community expenditure for the 2007-2013 programmes.
The programme commitments of ΣΥΡΙΖΑ In the short term, we are fully restoring the flow of payments and project implementation so that the 2007-2013 NSRF can be completed without unduly burdening the budgetary base in the coming years.
The objective is twofold: the smooth completion of the programmes with the minimum possible burden on both the new period and the state budget.
 In the medium term, we ensure the continuation of critical projects of the previous period without affecting the eligibility criteria of the new period
and without fully removing the programmatic autonomy of the NSRF 2014-2020.
The aim is to clear the development landscape of the obligations and burdens of the past.
Thus we will move towards a new development model based on:--small and medium-sized useful projects
,--interventions with a strong social and ecological
footprint--a new entrepreneurship that will combine the production of high quality and value-added products and services with a new form of business governance through cooperative schemes and forms of social and cooperative economy.
2.2.4 Support for small and medium-sized enterprisesThe extent and structure of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship in Greece has been shaped on the basis of the development of Greek capitalism and the Greek social formation over time.
In recent years, this landscape has been rapidly restructured through, and as a result of, the austerity policy,
both because of the reduction in demand and liquidity problems, and because
of the direction imposed by the strategy of the Memoranda.
At the core of this strategy is the assumption that the intensification of competition and deregulation of markets will "consolidate" the productive sectors of the economy by reducing the cost of the goods and services produced,
and that this will increase social welfare.
In fact, this process widens the profitability areas of big capital and facilitates the creation of oligopolies by devaluing wage labour in the logic of cost competitiveness,
devaluing the quality of products and, just as often, increasing rather than reducing prices for consumers.
SYRIZA's strategic orientation For SYRIZA, the exploitation of the strategic advantages of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship - taking into account its great contribution to employment - is a key element of its policy in the effort to recover the economy,
and to highlight counter-examples in the organisation,
the production process, the
relationship with the state, the use of new technologies, and the
development of innovation.
At the same time, creating economies of scale through the creation and promotion of new forms of cooperatives could make them directly competitive with larger enterprises.
The compromise and the prospects that are opening upThe commitments undertaken by the SYRIZA government in the framework of the agreement with the lenders create issues of conflict at the level of strategic direction,
especially with regard to the deregulation of specific sectors that it explicitly targets.
However, we believe that the battle is still open for the emergence of an innovative, outward-looking, productive and more collective small and medium-sized entrepreneurship
, aiming at qualitative differentiation and the exploitation of the comparative human and natural advantages of the Greek economy.
The first government of the LeftAlthough we did not succeed, due to the unfavourable economic conditions and the methodical suffocation, to proceed with the necessary tax reductions in favour of small and medium-sized enterprises, we took relief measures, often in fierce conflict with the institutions.
In particular: We have implemented our major commitment for the 100 instalments for the overdue debts of the public sector and the social security funds
, giving at the same time insurance and tax information to those who joined.
 We decriminalized debts to the state up to the amount of 50,000 Euros, stopping the obscene manhunt that the previous government had launched against debtors who had an objective inability to repay their debts.
 We legislated the "Second Chance", i.e. the full discharge of debts for individuals who have honestly gone bankrupt.
This will allow thousands of small and medium-sized businesses and professionals who have gone bankrupt honestly to start a new business free from the debt loop.
SYRIZA's programmatic commitments In the new conditions shaped by the new agreement, SYRIZA is committed to fight for the strengthening of small and medium-sized enterprises.
We have already mentioned our plan for the restoration of liquidity and the banking system, as well as the new way of using the NSRF.
This design is such that small and medium-sized enterprises are supported.
We are committed to doing the same, including in the following ways:
 New Development Law. We have already prepared a new development law that aims to:
--Facilitate the transition from a low to a high competitiveness/technological specialisation/innovation/domestic value added economy, and contribute to improving the trade balance.
--Reinforces existing productive structures where critical weaknesses and risks of collapse are identified.
--Motivate new groups of actors: diaspora scientists - social/solidarity/alternative/cooperative economy initiatives, entrepreneurial networks, youth entrepreneurship ventures, innovative/start-ups.
 Development bank. Within the first quarter of 2016, the procedures for the operation of the Development Bank, which will initially have under its umbrella the Deposits and Loans Fund and ETEAN, are expected to be completed.
The creation of a national development agency, in line with the most successful European models, will play an important role in (a) optimising the absorption and effective use of European funds,
(b) enhancing Greece's participation in the "Investment Plan for Europe" (Juncker Plan),
(c) developing synergies with the European Investment Bank and with similar institutions abroad,
and (d) attracting private investors.
Through the Development Bank, special programmes will be developed for municipalities and regions,
and primary production, micro-enterprises and the cooperative economy will be supported.
 New financial instruments. We are reforming existing financial instruments and designing new ones to support entrepreneurship.
These new tools will be managed by other entities (apart from the Systemic Banks), such as the new Development Bank and other non-banking organizations and will concern:
-- Microcredits for businesses, which is a very widespread tool for growth and unemployment reduction in the European Union and has not been used in Greece so far;
--Loans up to 25.000€ without collateral security and without strict bank evaluation criteria of the borrower.
These can make an important contribution to supporting micro, small and individual enterprises, social enterprises
supporting unemployed people and other vulnerable groups to start a new business activity or develop an existing one.
--Providing working capital guarantees to export enterprises and their suppliers at reduced financial costs.
--Financing of Business Investment Plans immediately after their inclusion for funding in the Operational Programmes
so that companies can receive the equivalent of the grant (if they so wish) by assignment of the integration decision
and with the only guarantee being the corresponding amount from the funds of the new NSRF programme, subject to the immediate implementation of the project.
 Tax relief. Despite the tight fiscal space due to the new agreement, we have worked out a package of measures for indirect tax relief for SMEs.
Indicatively, we mention:--Reduction of tax rates for those companies that intensify electronic transactions and follow tax compliance standards;
--Phased abolition of special contributions in the context of a fair and progressive tax system;
--Phased abolition of the business tax.
Until its abolition, application of an exemption for the first five years after the establishment of small and medium-sized enterprises;
--Retroactive cessation of inactive enterprises (from 2009) with cumulative validity of non-operation criteria.
Exemption from any fine following the interruption by payment of an interruption fee.
Regularisation of the assets of these enterprises;
--Fixed debt adjustment in 24 days or 36 days under conditions for all debts;
--Extended incentives for the establishment of new SMEs.
Reduction of the tax rate by 50% (indicatively 13% from 26%) for the first 5 years and for income up to 25,000 euros;
-Acceleration of income tax and VAT refunds;
-A system of debt "transfer" between the State and the taxpayer, in order to balance the debt netting problems that exist today.
 Reduction of bureaucratic costs through coordinated actions of the General Secretariat for Industry, and the Ministries of Economy and Administrative Reform towards simplification of licensing,
minimization of contact points with the public administration
and use of technology for the simplest possible electronic procedures related to the operation of businesses.
 Strengthen competition and fight against cartels by upgrading the institutional and operational capacity of the Competition Commission.
2.2.5 Strengthening the social economyThe economic system that neoliberalism is attempting to impose is characterised by the monoculture of the private sector of the economy,
dominated by private banks and multinational companies.
For this reason, neoliberal policy seeks on the one hand the permanent and drastic shrinkage of the public sector of the economy
and on the other hand it systematically undermines the development potential of the social sector.
The result and cause of this monoculture is the ideological prevalence of the logic of profit and the corresponding social practices of individualism, competition, authoritarianism, etc.
The strategic orientation of SYRIZA Moving on the opposite side of neoliberalism, SYRIZA seeks a pluralistic economic system that is composed of all three sectors of the economy.
Therefore, in SYRIZA's policy, the social economy constitutes one of the central developmental levers of productive reconstruction
and an alternative model for the organisation of production and the distribution of its results.
For this reason, SYRIZA's policy sets the following goals: To drastically expand the currently weak social sector of the economy in our country so that it can contribute a significant share of GDP in the future.
We seek to ensure that cooperative ventures do not move on the sidelines but are at the heart of the economy, with activity in sectors and industries such as agri-food, manufacturing, energy production, tourism, etc.
This will be helped by the networking of these projects, including on issues related to their funding.
 Social economy ventures should be based on worker participation at all stages of production,
democratic decision-making and member control, and fair distribution of the economic outcome.
 Social practices such as democratic organisation, self-management, co-operative and solidarity that characterise the social economy should be spread to other sectors of the economy and society at large.
The compromise and the prospects that open upWith regard to the achievement of the above objectives, the current situation is particularly favourable for two main reasons:
(a) Because, contrary to the traumatic experience of the management of mainly agricultural cooperatives by the old party system, in
the past period, in reaction to the gap in covering social needs created by the memorandum intensification of the neoliberal attack,
movements and structures of cooperative and solidarity economy have developed in our country and have recorded extremely encouraging successes.
The know-how, the experience of these structures and the cooperation with them can make it easier for a Syriza government to decisively promote its policy.
(b) Because the social economy is absent from the commitments in the new agreement with the country's creditors.
This of course does not mean that the field is free to implement SYRIZA's policy, because it is a strategic choice of neoliberalism to shrink the public and social sector of the economy in favour of the private sector.
But it means that for the social economy a SYRIZA government will be able to fight the necessary battles from a much better position than in other areas explicitly included in the new agreement.
The first government of Αριστεράς We took the first steps to improve and simplify the institutional framework for the establishment and operation of social economy ventures.
Specifically, during the period of the government:--Cooperation between the relevant ministries for the unification of cooperative legislation.
Thus, a draft law on rural cooperatives was prepared and the draft law on forest cooperatives was prepared.
--In cooperation with existing social economy projects, we initiated the amendment of Law 4019/2011 on social cooperative enterprises in the direction of solving the problems that its implementation has highlighted.
--We simplified the procedures for registration in the Social Economy Registry.
 We completed the procedures for the incorporation of the EU directives on public procurement of social reference into the Greek institutional framework and reached the final stage of the formulation of the framework for programmatic contracts and procedures for the concession of premises.
 We initiated the creation of the Social Economy Fund provided for by Law 4019/2011.
 We regulated issues concerning VIOME in order to ensure the continuation of its operation by its employees.
The programme commitments of ΣΥΡΙΖΑ We are establishing a flexible inter-ministerial committee to promote the social economy as a horizontal priority at government level.
Governance experience has shown that this is necessary and urgent.
 We are improving and simplifying the institutional framework for the establishment and operation of social economy structures,
incorporating both the experience of other countries and the proposals and recommendations of international organizations.
Our aim is to gradually arrive at a single law for cooperatives and other cooperative schemes,
where there will be specificity according to their scope.
We also seek to align the legal form of social economy structures with their tax treatment.
 We are shaping the framework of cooperation between the state and social economy structures in a way that favours and supports the respective projects.
We are taking care to facilitate and support the participation of cooperative ventures in public tenders
and we are creating a favourable tax framework for these ventures.
 We are creating specific support structures, initially at central, then at regional and local level, to support social economy ventures at all stages of their operation.
In the absence of a strong cooperative movement in Greece, state support is necessary at the initial stage.
We have already explored opportunities to work with organisations that can and are interested in taking on a similar role.
 We are developing and implementing specific government action plans that facilitate social economy ventures to operate in dynamic sectors and branches of the Greek economy.
We have already completed such a plan for the utilisation of idle agricultural land and the agro-food and beverage industries,
and we have begun its implementation by drafting a bill to establish a related body.
We are working on plans for the development of older hotel units, as well as
for interventions in renewable energy,
industry-processing,
new technologies and construction.
 We are securing the necessary financial resources to support social economy ventures.
We have already moved in this direction in the redesign of the new NSRF 2014-2020
as well as for the creation of the Social Economy Fund provided for by Law 4019/2011.
 We regulate issues related to abandoned businesses so that they can continue to operate with management taken over by employees.
 We are setting up a special control mechanism to ensure the proper functioning of cooperatives and other cooperative ventures,
and avoid the creation of "pseudo-cooperatives" and other shenanigans.
 We ensure the promotion and dissemination of social economy projects (interactive map with information on each project)
even with annual social economy fairs (Social Economy Expo).
2.2.6 Reliable spatial planning Spatial planning, spatial planning, is perhaps the most important tool for productive reconstruction.
and a crucial policy tool for mitigating inequalities at all scales
and the redistribution of surplus value arising locally and very spatially determined from the unequal exploitation of land and resources.
It is also a tool for ensuring the protection of the natural environment
and common goods and heritage
and is therefore defined by the Constitution as a public obligation.
The spatial planning system with which we entered the recent period of the "debt crisis" and the Memorandum reforms,
had already been gradually undermined in practice before the Memorandum in various ways, some of which are worth mentioning:
its internal contradictions and antinomies, a number of "derogations" on what is allowed as use and as building and where, the
absence of a coherent policy both for cities and for off-planned areas (rural and protected land),
inability to control and corruption in the control system both at the preventive level (building permits or establishment of uses) and at the
repressive level (imposition of fines, removal of undesirable buildings or uses),
over-regulation of regulations that remained unchecked, particularly in extra-urban land,
and criminal delays in the approval of plans at all levels (regional planning, general planning, urban studies, etc.) which,
on the one hand, exacerbated arbitrariness, on the other hand, rendered the plans out of date when the time for approval came and,
in any case, discredited planning and its agencies (planners and administration) in the eyes of the citizens.
Most importantly, however, the planning was undermined by some very specific political choices dictated by very specific interests:
(a) the planning of projects and minor or major infrastructure in the absence of overall spatial planning (and, of course, the conditions of environmental protection)
(b) the "exception" and "emergency" status of institutionalising things that go against planning, laws or even against the Constitution itself
(c) the deliberate delay in recording the boundaries of private and public property through the Land Registry, Forest Maps and the sanctioning of beach and coastlines throughout the country.
This model of political undermining of Spatial Planning has been further deepened by the memorandum jurisprudence of the last 5 years, accumulating more problems.
SYRIZA's strategic orientationWe seek to reconstruct a new model of public spatial planning that is democratic, simple and for the whole area.
The restoration of democracy and spatial and social justice is primarily through negotiation with society about the future of the area and the country.
And it is precisely spatial planning that constitutes this negotiating link.
With the new model, we come to help the project of development and productive reconstruction
by feeding its policies with the necessary information and commitments from the space, places, societies and ecosystems.
We want citizens and investors to be able to build and exploit land where it is allowed for all, without exceptions for some,
without false building or exploitation rights,
without strengthening the right of the strongest.
This means legal security, equality, an organised state and environmental protection.
The first government of the LeftThe first months of the SYRIZA government were implemented: Promotion of studies of Morphological Building and Architectural Rules in areas within and outside settlements of up to 2,000 inhabitants in 23 Regional Units of the country (consultation stage)
 Registration of building cooperatives of the law. Attica
 Formulation of Ministerial Decisions to set up working groups on the following issues:
-The treatment of arbitrary building
-The amendment of the building regulation, the provisions on the issuance of building permits, competent councils and other urban planning regulations
-The demarcation of settlements under 2,000 inhabitants.
-The amendment of the provisions of Law No. 4315/2014 "acts of contribution to land and money - urban land expropriation and other provisions"
 Preparation of a register of pending urban and spatial planning studies
 Activation of the implementation of the law. 3882/2010 "National Spatial Information Infrastructure" and INSPIRE directive.
The programmatic commitments of ΣΥΡΙΖΑ We are proceeding, after scientific and social consultation, to a substantial revision of the existing spatial planning policy
and land use, with a focus on simplifying planning levels,
its democratisation by strengthening the participation of local communities and its public nature.
 We are completing the revision of the Regional Spatial Planning and Sustainable Development Frameworks, which are of major importance for the organisation of space,
can synthesise the individual sectoral directions in the space, thus mitigating conflicts of use,
and are linked to development planning at regional level and the NSRF.
In order to achieve this objective, the revision/re-approach of the policy guidelines for the spatial development and organisation of the regions provided for in the plans has been deemed necessary and is being promoted.
 A number of pending urban planning issues are being addressed methodically through the establishment of special legislative committees.
 Codification of legislation is a broader objective and priority of the government.
Our scope includes the legislation concerning the area and includes the urban planning legislation and the building legislation
 After the recent appointment of a new administration in EKHA SA, the completion of the Cadastral Survey throughout the country is promoted through:
the acceleration of the transparent and equal award of cadastral studies throughout the country;
the priority in the completion, posting and ratification of the Forest Maps and the cooperation with the Ministry of Finance for the parallel completion and ratification of the coastlines with the necessary
The proper designation of protected areas, coasts and sensitive ecosystems is also a policy that is part of our national strategy to tackle climate change.
 From EKHA SA, emphasis is also placed on the development of the national geospatial data infrastructure.
Implementation of network services projects of the EIGEP Information System and the Geogate.
Establishment of geospatial data sharing and interoperability policy
2.2.7.Utilisation of public propertyThe privatisation programme was one of the areas of conflict between SYRIZA and the neoliberal model.
Under the previous agreements, Greek governments were obliged to proceed with a broad privatisation programme in line with specific timetables and quantitative targets (€22 billion by 2020),
all of which would be used to repay public debt.
According to the neoliberal narrative, privatisations contribute to increasing investment and employment,
to enhancing the competitiveness of the economy,
while the public sector is considered essentially incapable of managing state-owned companies in an optimal way
and should therefore withdraw from any business activity.
For SYRIZA, the privatizations were a rapid divestment of the property of the Greek people through scandalous procedures
as they were in essence forced sales.
Proof of this is the fact that the quantitative revenue targets are constantly being revised upside down
and the challenge of judicial investigation in many cases (e.g. the sale and rental of 28 public properties).
The programmatic position of SYRIZA spoke of the utilization of public property, using
all modern methods
(e.g. partnerships with domestic and foreign private investors and public enterprises of third countries)
, aiming to stimulate the Greek economy, reduce unemployment and attract investment.
As far as net revenues are concerned, SYRIZA's proposal was to use them as an additional resource for financing the social security system, a
proposal that was another proof of the coherence of its overall economic programme.
According to the new programme, the Greek state is obliged to proceed with nine (9) privatisations within the next three years, which is part of the government's necessary compromise to close the deal
and prevent the previous plan to sell 23 assets,
including companies of strategic and interest and high social importance such as HELPE, DEPA, EYDAP and EYATH.
The table below clearly shows the significant difference for the upcoming privatisations included in the new programme compared to the commitments of the previous governments (31.12.2014).
Privatisation programme until 31.12.2014 New privatisation programme 31.12.2014 1. Regional Airports 1. Regional Airports 2. Hellenic 2. Hellenic 3. Vouliagmenis star 3. Vouliagmeni star 4. Afantou, Rhodes 4. Afantou, Rhodes 5. National Natural Gas System Operator 5. National Gas System Operator (DESFA) Gas System Operator (DESFA) Gas System Operator (DESFA) 6. Piraeus Port Authority (PPA) 6. Piraeus Port Authority (PPA) 7. Thessaloniki Port Authority (PPA) 7. Thessaloniki Port Authority (PPA) 8. TRAINOSE SA & EUSTY AA (ROSCO) 8. TRAINOSE SA & EUSTY SA (ROSCO) 9. Athens International Airport (Eleftherios 9. Athens International Airport (Eleftherios Venizelos) Venizelos) 10. Electronic Auctions of Real Estate 11. Marines 12. Egnatia Odos SA 13. Other Concession Tenders 14. Real Estate Monetisation 15. Poseidi, Halkidiki 16. Equestrian Centre of Markopoulo (Olympic Properties) 17. Hellenic Petroleum SA (ELPE SA) 18. OTE SA 19. Public Electricity Company (PPC) 20. EVATH 21. EVDAP 22. Public Enterprise for Gas Production (DEPA) 23. Hellenic Post (ELTA)
Part of the new programme is the creation of a new independent fund for the utilisation of public assets,
along the lines of the corresponding sovereign funds abroad, to which assets will be transferred in order to:
utilise them,
protect and increase their value, and
integrate them effectively into the productive transformation of the country,
instead of their forced divestment, as was the case until now.
The clarification of the important parameters for the operation of the fund was the key point for the achievement (or not) of the July 12 EuroSummit agreement between the government and the institutions.
The fund will be based in Greece, administered and managed by the Greek authorities, with the
institutions limited to supervisory and technical assistance roles.
An important difference from the past is the fact that the direction of the new fund's revenues will not be exclusively for the repayment of public debt,
but a basic programmatic proposal to use part of the revenues to finance public investment has been achieved.
Specifically:50% will be used to reimburse the recapitalization of banks and other assets;
25% will be used to reduce the debt/GDP ratio;
25% will be used for investment.
The mode of operation of the new fund, its internal structure, the code of corporate governance, the possible composition of its assets (e.g. shares of companies and banks, the EBRD, real estate, the Hellenic Property Fund, etc.)
and the methodology of the optimal use of public assets will be the subject of an independent Task Force to be set up by the Greek government.
In addition to the above, it is considered necessary to develop a programme for the registration and protection of public property.
Specifically, the Greek public sector has not yet recorded the methods of full utilization of all its assets,
of efficient and less costly allocation of the resources available to it
, as many of its property assets are being encroached upon,
while the dispersion of their management in various services and institutions leads to their incomplete utilization with the well-known phenomena of mismanagement and waste of vital public resources in the years of crisis.
The government, in cooperation with civil society, is called upon to act to create a register of public property, to
create control institutions for its protection
and its better use for the benefit not only of state revenues but also for the creation of social infrastructure that will improve the daily life of citizens.
2.2.8 Ambitious innovation policyIn the context of neoliberal thinking, and especially during the last years of fiscal austerity,
there has been serious ideological pressure to present the attempted complete deregulation of research and the process of producing and exploiting new knowledge in the face of the market as a response to the crisis.
Similar aggressive policies have been implemented in the name of "development" and "useful research" in order to almost equate research with entrepreneurship.
However, these policies have produced little or no results.
It was also attempted to blame the country's scientific potential for the unsatisfactory interconnection of research with production, a
fact which is indeed observed in the country and which is primarily due to the economic development pattern that has been followed for years
and, in particular, to the structure and orientation of Greek enterprises.
The crisis today calls for different priorities and interventions across the entire innovation chain,
at one end of which is knowledge in the sense of the triangle that makes it up: education, research and innovation.
The weak link in the innovation chain for the country is mainly factors that are at odds with the development of healthy entrepreneurship.
The strategic orientation of SYRIZA In contrast to the policies that have been pursued, SYRIZA is called upon to develop a de novo policy in this sector as well:
 Faced with the need to develop a new productive model for the country, in the conditions of the deep social and economic crisis we are experiencing, the
Research and Innovation that is emerging must become a beacon of hope and perspective and the backbone of productive reconstruction.
 A major legacy here is the most important asset that the country has:
its scientific potential, and in particular young scientists.
It is therefore crucial to have a policy of dynamic exploitation that will reverse the reversal of the strong climate of migration abroad
that has been observed over the last 5 years and is the result of the austerity policies that have been followed.
The first government of the Left As far as financial instruments are concerned, and since the available national resources for Research today necessarily come mainly through national participation in the NSRF,
we are looking for new ways.
In addition to public funding of research, we believe that private investment is crucial.
A policy of incentives, not just subsidies, for the effective and responsible participation of the private sector in investment risk
would be useful in this direction. In this context:
 We have designed and set in motion a plan to finance research and innovation,
based on a mix of public and private resources
and by creating a Special Fund to support research and innovation actions based on the leveraging of public and private resources,
coming mainly from new European Investment Bank financing schemes.
The fund will provide:--Grants to research projects;
--Equity funds (seed and investment funds);
--Low-interest loans (around 2%) which significantly reduce the cost of money for SME investments in Research & Development activities. Innovation.
SYRIZA's programmatic commitments are an effective scheme to support the Knowledge Economy by developing synergies between thematic clusters of businesses with consortia of Universities and Research Centres in environments that are governed by the pursuit of scientific quality and excellence,
that provide inspiration and foster the leverage of ideas and creativity while ensuring the public interest and the independence of research.
Such environments can also be the substrate for the flourishing of new scientific ideas
and the development of innovative entrepreneurship that can potentially transform the real economy.
To support the above, among other things: Institutional framework for the protection of research work and intellectual property (copyright, ethics, bioethics).
Institutional interventions on the development role of research organisations
and their interface with the private sector, with the
necessary flexibility but ensuring the public interest and the independence of research.
 Full evaluation and transparency in the management of resources and research output
and ensuring the public nature of research and infrastructure
as well as a serious mechanism for control, monitoring & evaluation of the physical scope of the research programmes carried out.
 Support for structures promoting public-private synergy and networking in research and innovation
and planning with a regional dimension.
2.2.9 Coherent digital policy The Left has always valued the inclusive dissemination of knowledge and information throughout society.
It is digital technology, after all, that has allowed movements to grow, to coordinate, to communicate, to "infect" with their ideas and to show that another world is possible.
The strategic orientation of SYRIZA's new authority is to address the fragmentation in policy-making on Information and Communication Technologies (ICT)
and to treat them as a distinct policy area.
The new authority will allow the effective implementation of SYRIZA's ICT policy which has the following objectives:
 Reduction of bureaucracy and improvement of services offered to citizens and businesses.
 Effective investment of public and community resources in ICT for a balanced and inclusive development
 Unified digital policy and governance, and representation of Greece in international fora.
 Safeguarding citizens' rights in the digital world, protecting their privacy and personal data protection.
 Ensuring the open and free nature of the internet.
SYRIZA's programmatic commitmentsSYRIZA is committed to creating a single unified public authority, at the highest level of government,
with a focus on digital policy and e-government.
This single Authority will have the following main responsibilities and priorities:
 e-government coordination actions (e-government)
--Directing the central planning and coordination of the implementation of all national and Community co-funded ICT programmes
--Consolidation and rationalization of all Public Bodies that implement ICT programmes for the benefit of the public sector (e.g. EDIKA, KTP S.A.)
--Common standards for security, interoperability and data
--Interoperability of public records, registers and databases
--Opening the ICT market by introducing open standards, software and technologies in all e-government programmes
--Single sign-on for public services
 Establishment of measurable ICT benchmarking indicators and their improvement
--Three-year action plan for the radical improvement of e-government services from the public to the citizens, aiming at,
as a minimum, the EU average in the corresponding European Commission indicators
 Public Procurement-- Single Point of Control (SPOC) for all ICT public procurement
-- Mandatory use of the public e-procurement service (ESIDES - KIMDES)
with a direct link to Di@uGeia for all public procurement to increase transparency.
Διοίκηση--Creating and centrally managing a common, secure and flexible infrastructure available across the public sector
(public telecommunications network - SYZEXIS, "Government-Cloud",
rationalisation of data centres,
common and accessible applications and services for all public bodies, etc.)
Adoption of the "once only principle" to reduce bureaucracy in public administration
introducing the principle of privacy in the design of public administration systems
Transparency, Access to Information and Reuse of Information
Repeal all exceptions to the Di@ugya programme and promote its application to all public enterprises
Opening up public sector information and data for reuse by private bodies and the public
Opening of public geospatial data, with emphasis on cadastral data
Harmonisation of all public data policies
Seamless and unified use of data, software and cloud services between all public sector organisations
Introduction of transparency obligations in line with the standards of Transparency, in cases of public service provision by private parties (concessionaires, PPP schemes, etc.)
Electronic monitoring of the progress of citizens' requests
 Digital Technology and Telecommunications Single Market
Subsidising and coordinating the implementation of Digital Single Market actions by public sector bodies.
Modernisation of the institutional framework of the Digital Single Market and Telecommunications Market,
Strengthening the legal framework for personal privacy on the internet and telecommunications.
Improving the legal framework for electronic transactions.
Creating an institutional framework for the sharing economy.
Defending the principle of net neutrality.
Modernisation of post offices to enhance e-commerce in Greece.
The creation of the single Public Authority will allow us to move our government programme forward more quickly.
Indicatively: We release Community funds for Information and Communication Technologies projects
 We strengthen, simplify and expand Diavgeia
 We control all public contracts in a uniform and electronic way
 We ensure the interoperability of digital public registers.
 We complete and expand the opening of public data
 We reduce the digital divide by providing internet access to every corner of Greece
 We redesign the digital school
 We provide incentives for the universal expansion of electronic payments to strengthen e-commerce and combat tax evasion
 We lay the institutional foundations for the Greek, Secure Cyberspace, in cooperation with all relevant bodies
2.2.10. New island policy: Islands of Equal OpportunitiesThe policy design of previous governments so far has ignored the specificity of our islands,
despite the existence of a relevant constitutional provision (Article 101 & 4 of the current constitution)
as well as corresponding European Treaties (Amsterdam, Lisbon).
The growth model followed so far and the neoliberal policies that have been violently implemented in recent years have had the consequence of inflating the already existing structural and functional problems and intensifying class inequalities.
Shortages of human resources and basic infrastructure in health and education services,
difficulties and costs in transport,
high unemployment, youth exodus,
demographic ageing,
degradation of the residential and natural environment (e.g. waste management),
insufficient drinking water,
and energy problems make up the island landscape.
The main objective of SYRIZA is the sustainable development of the islands and it is more than our obligation to examine the legislation and the policies that are being implemented in terms of their impact on the islands,
and where necessary to make the necessary adjustments.
The resolution of many local issues requires comprehensive regulation within the framework of a national island policy.
Moreover, there is a need to find the appropriate countervailing measures to balance a number of policies from the implementation of the agreement (abolition of the special VAT scheme for islands, privatisation of regional airports, etc.).
The programmatic commitments of SYRIZAPromoting the transport equivalent in order to satisfy the right of islanders to enjoy transport services at the same cost as those of other regions.
Providing for the possibility of transport for the unemployed and economically disadvantaged residents with the lowest possible fare.
Promote the establishment of a public-social maritime operator with cooperation between the state and local authorities, along the lines of the Scandinavian countries.
Strengthening the coastal communication between the islands through a minimum public combined transport network.
Improvement of all health structures (Hospitals, Multipurpose Regional Clinics, Health Centres and the Health Centres of the Emergency Medical Services) with the peak of their adequate staffing with doctors and nursing staff, taking into account the high seasonality due to tourism.
Emphasis on preventive medicine and primary health care with the use of modern telecommunication methods (telemedicine services that have already been included for funding from the NSRF and their completion has been delayed)
both for consultation and treatment and for the training of nursing staff.
Supporting primary production with infrastructure (slaughterhouses, mills, etc.),
but also with policies to reduce production and distribution costs, incentives for new producers and the creation of cooperative networks,
systematisation of agricultural crops and livestock products,
support for professional fishing with the necessary infrastructure and proper management of fisheries wealth.
Emphasis on the use of local products without intensifying crops.
Spatial planning to protect the environment,
determination of land use and control of building outside the settlement that will contribute to the preservation of the unique landscape of the islands with respect to the urban planning regulations
Priority to the construction or completion of the important infrastructure that the islands lack (ports, sewerage, water supply, etc.)
Staffing and redesign of education services
but also training so that there is a substantial upgrade.
The aim is to stop fragmentation and develop coherence and synergy between services, using modern technologies and with the valuable help of the Universities of the islands.
Water policy compatible with the environment and minimising costs.
Rational management of water resources.
Rational management of solid and liquid waste in accordance with the new National Waste Management Plan.
Encourage grassroots movements.
Immediate restoration of structures of abolished public services,
with the promotion of special benefits - not necessarily financial - for those civil servants - officials who choose to serve on islands.
Strengthening the CCPs and expanding their services to avoid the need for citizens to move.
Exploitation of the existing energy network with connection to the mainland
and promotion of alternative energy sources with respect to the natural and residential environment.
Promoting energy autonomy on small islands.
Promotion, strengthening and promotion of cultural institutions and events of the islands.
Exploitation of the natural and cultural specificities of the islands for the development of new tourism products related to local characteristics.
Strengthening existing industrial-industrial production and shipyards and incentives for traditional shipbuilding.
Government: Upgrading of the General Secretariat for the Aegean and Island Policy with the creation of a Deputy Ministry of Island PolicyParliamentary:
Upgrading of the Committee for Island and Mountainous Regions
Strengthening of the migrant accommodation centres on the islands, providing the necessary living conditions and medical needs,
strengthening the police and port police, cooperation with the European Union for the utilisation or finding of funds.
Smoothing the impact of the burdens brought to the islanders by the removal of the special VAT regime with the application of tax exemptions and deductions, aiming to return the total burden to the permanent residents based on income criteria.
MEASURES FOR TOURISM IN THE ISLANDS: //Support through NSRF for the modernization of tourism enterprises of all functional forms and sectors with emphasis on islands with less than 2300 inhabitants.2.
Utilization of tourism resources, natural and cultural, with the creation of organized products of alternative forms of tourism and their targeted promotion.
It concerns business tourism products, agrotourism, ecotourism, cultural tourism, religious tourism, diving, etc.
This can be done by: a) Creating model products;
b) Providing relevant expertise to regions, municipalities or other actors involved.
C) Inventory of alternative products, which may exist in perfect form.
3. Marine tourism.
- Organisation of an on-line information system for marine tourists on the availability of berths in ports and anchorages and generally for the necessary information;
- Support for cruises outside the usual routes linking the islands with small cruise ships.
4. Encouraging the penetration of local products from the islands into tourism and their exploitation through appropriate measures,
such as a special programme for the preservation and promotion of products which tend to be abandoned, the
adoption of "local breakfasts" and local products in general by island accommodation and catering establishments with financial support, etc.
2.3. Production priorities2.3.1 Agri-food production and fisheriesThe Common Agricultural Policy for 2014-2020 is based on a strict adherence to neoliberal doctrine
and the Europe 2020 strategy, under the strict supervision of the implementation of the Stability and Growth Pact.
At the same time, without any dialogue with the rural world and the political forces of the country,
the Samaras government has legislated its national implementation options, which will bring an additional blow to the already dismantled primary sector of our country.
The 11.2% reduction in funding, the maintenance of the distribution of payments in favour of large farms, which
make up 20% of the total and receive 80% of direct payments,
the absence of price regulation and speculation control instruments, and horizontal regulations in all Member States,
ignoring individual national production characteristics, are the central content of the CAP 2014-2020.
Its sole objective is to eliminate small family farms
and ensure the profitability of large agro-processing industries, large food retail chains and export businesses, particularly in the northern countries.
The Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership (TTIP) combined with the recent decisions of the European Parliament and the European Commission exacerbate the nutritional risks for citizens
and they are moving precisely along the lines of completing the extreme liberalisation of the agricultural market,
the control of seeds by multinationals,
uncontrolled use in production
and food marketing of genetically modified organisms
and the dismantling of the specific production and food patterns of the peoples of Europe.
SYRIZA's strategic orientation SYRIZA seeks to establish in our country a new production and food model based on a long-term sustainable agriculture, livestock, fisheries and food and beverage industry,
which will cover the basic domestic nutritional needs and at the same time will redefine the share of Greek products in the European and international distribution,
mainly with products of high added value and strong identity.
It will be based on production that respects the environment, is determined cooperatively and is designed to serve social needs
rather than being determined solely by market forces.
Fundamental components of our strategy for primary production are ensuring access for all to healthy, safe, high nutritional value food at affordable prices, shortening the chain between producers and consumers
and redistributing the wealth produced for the benefit of small and medium-sized producers.
The compromise and the prospects that open upThe new agreement with the creditors provides for a tax burden on farmers and production in three areas.
Firstly, the taxation of the income of professional farmers in line with the self-employed at a rate of 26%.
Second, the gradual increase of the advance tax to 100%, also in line with the self-employed.
And thirdly, the abolition of the rebate on agricultural oil.
The agreement leaves several open fronts and also provides for:--improvements in the absorption of EU funds by the end of 2015;
--measures aimed at improving the marketing of agricultural products;
--establishment of an initiative for the export of Greek products and the promotion and management of export distribution networks.
-- Structural reforms to establish a new framework for agricultural cooperatives;
-- Encourage structural reforms favouring young and active farmers;
-- Greater concentration of agricultural holdings;
-- Programme to improve resource efficiency in energy use and water management;
-- Support for good agricultural practices financed with EU funds.
The above eight points are the battles that lie ahead of us and that the Government must fight together with the rural world.
The battles will determine the content of the proposals and interventions and thus whether they will serve a counter-confrontational project to the dominant one
and whether they will finally constitute step-by-step reforms that transform primary production.
The first government of Αριστεράς We elaborated and legislated measures that limited the tax burden on agricultural incomes and were included in the tax law of the Samaras government :
-- Compensation for natural disasters in the agricultural economy remained tax-free.
They were to be taxed from the first euro at a rate of 13%.
--Agricultural subsidies remained tax-free up to 12,000 euros.
This arrangement covered more than 90% of farmers, mainly small and medium farmers.
Tax from the first euro at a rate of 13% was foreseen.
-- The advance tax was reduced from 55% to 27.5%
 The Greek Sugar Industry was reopened, giving a way out to thousands of tea producers.
 The bill on the cooperative organization of farmers has been completed and is ready to be put to consultation.
 Plans have been made to register the Ministry's real estate, with a
view to establishing a body for the development of public agricultural land and rural real estate.
 We have significantly reduced costs and simplified procedures for issuing a certificate of correct use of pesticides.
 We are taking measures to protect feta as a Geographical Indication product in the European Union's agreements with third countries.
We are tackling the problem of eligible areas for pasture
and their transparent and fair distribution to farmers, with the
aim of ensuring a smooth and uninterrupted flow of €450 million of Community funds per year.
 The mapping of grazing land
and the finalisation of the relevant draft law on grazing land is underway to
ensure its sustainable productive use.
 We have completed the planning for the Rural Development Programme 2014-2020, with a total budget of €4.7 billion.
 Ensured the absorption of the €800 million that was in danger of being lost under the Rural Development Programme 2007 - 2013.
The programme commitments of ΣΥΡΙΖΑ We are fighting to alleviate the tax burden of the agreement with interventions to protect farmers' incomes
and ensure fair burden-sharing, while at the same time pursuing the productive reconstruction of the primary sector.
Indicatively:--All farm owners keep income - expense books except for small producers with an income of up to 5,000 euros.
Tightening and controlling the system will significantly help professional producers fiscally,
help raise producer prices,
reduce tax evasion,
reduce illegal imports and imports,
contribute to product traceability and significantly reduce consumer prices.
--We are working on the categorisation of agricultural income and its taxation,
based on the redefinition of the concept of 'agricultural enterprise' and 'agricultural holding' and the
concept of 'farmer' in cooperation with farmers' organisations:
 We are setting a general tax-free threshold for 'agricultural holdings'.
We recognise as imputed expenditure the remuneration for family work
and, on the basis of a new updated calculation, capital and fixed asset depreciation.
In order to provide substantial relief for the economically weaker, we
will seek graduated mid-rate rates according to the size of the income earned.
Automatic VAT refund procedure.
Special favourable rates for mountainous and inaccessible areas, young farmers, specific crops, actions related to sustainable development, etc.
Favourable treatment of cooperative structures, farmer groups with transparency and good governance.
Addressing together with farmers and after dialogue the problems created by the employment of migrant farm workers and the presumption of living, depreciation, or loss transfer
We protect rural income from the ruthlessness of the market, by combating intra-group transactions by agricultural input companies,
by controlling illegal imports and domestication, harmonised practices and overcharging, and by establishing and respecting strict time limits for repayment by producers
strengthening the bargaining power of farmers.
We are reducing the producer-consumer chain by giving farmers back their fair share of the value of their products through support for cooperative schemes, the establishment of producer markets and local producer-consumer networks.
We are tackling the major problem of liquidity, firstly by introducing the Rural Card
and, secondly, by designing a specific framework for the development agency we are creating.
We are reorganising public services and agricultural policy bodies into a single, coherent and anti-bureaucratic entity, which will provide advisory, educational and support services to farmers
and will manage Community aid and rural development programmes in a transparent manner.
We are creating a public body for the productive use of agricultural land (public, uncultivated private, ecclesiastical, etc.),
while designing measures and incentives to benefit the unemployed, young farmers, the elderly and the unemployed.
Our planning seeks to strengthen social economy structures, to
mobilise not only farmers but also scientists with relevant knowledge, to
facilitate the reactivation of late food and beverage industries, standardisation, distribution and marketing of agri-food products.
We strengthen the country's food sufficiency with specific sectoral plans to increase production,
using as our comparative advantage small-scale production and family farming
that highlight the special and unique quality characteristics of agricultural products.
A long-term strategic plan for the development of livestock farming as a prerequisite for increased production and food sufficiency,
balanced development,
population retention
and supplementary employment for the inhabitants, particularly in mountainous and disadvantaged areas.
More specifically:
-support for extensive (pastoral) livestock farming
-enhance the cultivation of leguminous crops and legumes to replace imported feed
-specific development programmes for poultry, pig, dairy and beef cattle farming.
-creation of an appropriate processing infrastructure for livestock products (slaughterhouses, by-product handling plants).
 We ensure the sustainability of the fishing industry, while protecting the marine environment, by:
-assessing the actual state of fish stocks in cooperation with fishermen and the scientific community,
so that realistic management plans can be implemented
and ensure the possibility of future productions.
recording the capacity of all types of fisheries (medium, coastal, recreational) and human resources.
-structural changes and modernisation of the entire fisheries legislative framework,
combined with the implementation of innovative control systems at all stages of production and sales.
-reconstitution of fishermen's organisations at regional and national level
as well as the education of the fishing world,
-reorganization of the fish farming sector with respect for the environment
and the cooperative production of quality products.
 We are taking additional policy measures
--Reconstitute the Genetic Material Bank and the conservation of domestic varieties, with the aim of reducing dependence in critical sectors of primary production
-We are working to rationalise the use and cost of energy and water resources in agriculture
--We establish a National System of Certified Quality of agricultural products in direct connection with corresponding European and international standards.
 Timely implementation of the Rural Development Programme 2014-2020.
We are continuing and intensifying our interventions aimed at supporting employment and boosting rural income,
as well as complementing it with alternative activities in the context of multi-sectoral and multifunctional agriculture.
--We are implementing 'front-loaded' measures that will help boost the liquidity and income of rural households
--We emphasize incentives in the Rural Development Program for Small Farmers,
but also greater simplification and fewer, but more substantial controls
--We are moving towards the creation of advisory structures for the scientific and technical support of producers,
in order to fill the large gap identified in the field of agricultural applications in the Greek periphery.
 We aim to improve the quality, diversification, added value, exports and the positive ecological footprint of agri-food products.
Indicatively:--Development of organic agriculture/livestock farming
--Enhancement of the production of already certified products (PDO-PGI) and promotion of new ones
--New reliable system of food quality controls
--Specific sectoral policies and development plans for each strategic product (olive oil, dairy, fruit and vegetables, wheat, wine, etc.
--Water resources management plan
--Universal ban on the use and cultivation of genetically modified products
--Promotion of the Mediterranean diet in our country and internationally.
 We are constantly seeking a revision of the Common Agricultural Policy for the benefit of small and medium-sized producers in our country.
2.3.2 EnergyThe crisis of the previous development model, which also led to the debt crisis,
was exacerbated during the five years of the Memorandum, leading to a reduction in consumption and energy demand.
In this climate, privatisation policies were pursued, focusing on the PPC and the electricity transmission network.
The previous political system, based on its selfish commitments and dependencies, was unable to approach modern technological developments, to
elaborate and implement a modern long-term energy planning.
The uncontrolled and market-driven development of the electricity generation infrastructure created the current overcapacity of generation capacity
and formed a pseudo-domestic energy market.
Various compensation mechanisms have been activated,
aid and ultimately guaranteed profits for a state-owned private sector in the energy production and distribution market.
The increase in the share of Natural Gas in the energy mix, instead of being channelled to direct combustion, industry and households,
was used to generate electricity in the private producers' PV plants
, increasing energy costs with the corresponding social consequences.
At the same time, the way in which renewable energy sources (RES) were developed, which constituted another developmental "big idea",
turned them into a factor of burdening general energy costs and private market manipulation.
The country therefore remains today in a contradictory and uncertain energy landscape,
with an unstable and changing energy fuel mix, with
no energy planning whatsoever.
The adaptation of the domestic energy system to European standards has not been possible so far, due to the old political system.
Any harmonisation of the domestic market to European standards, as defined by the European policy of the third package and the Target model, remains hostage to the selfish private interests of state-owned business.
The strategic orientation of ΣΥΡΙΖΑ The strategic goal of SYRIZA in the energy sector is a new democratic energy model with priority to social and environmental needs at local, regional and national level.
In this direction, the gradual decoupling from fossil fuels, the increase of energy efficiency
and the socially oriented planning of increasing the penetration of Renewable Energy Sources.
 SYRIZA's government policy proposal recognises the potential of the energy sector to become a key national sector of production, development and innovation
contributing to the perspective of social and ecological transformation of the production model.
In this context, the aim is to establish a new model of public and social management and ownership through complex forms of organisation of the public, social and private energy potential of the country.
 SYRIZA's energy policy aims at the urgent need to reduce energy costs for residential consumers, professional and industrial activities,
in combination with the protection of the environment, as necessary conditions for the restart of the Greek economy, the
productive reconstruction in the direction of a new development model with a social dimension.
We will exhaust all possibilities to include in this strategy the relevant commitments of the Memorandum, with their proper implementation and the identification of alternatives and options.
The first government of Αριστεράς Despite the aforementioned difficulties, the lack of liquidity and the overcharging of the energy market, measures were taken to deal with the deficits
and the debts of domestic consumers and businesses to the Public Electricity Company were settled.
 Hundreds of thousands of needy citizens were re-energized with electricity.
The new PPC management granted generous debt adjustments to hundreds of thousands of households and businesses,
as well as significant tariff discounts.
 The increases in electricity tariffs, which had been secretly pushed by the outgoing coalition government, were cancelled,
through the decision of the Energy Regulatory Authority to increase the Special Emission Reduction Fee (SRF).
 In cooperation with DEPA, gas prices have been significantly reduced by at least 16%.
 Increases in regulated network tariffs (high, medium and low voltage network usage charges) have been frozen,
which were about to be imposed by the previous government policy in view of the privatisation of networks, in particular ADMIE.
 The foundations have been laid for the construction of the South European Pipeline, which will transport Russian natural gas through Greek territory to the countries of Central Europe.
A Memorandum of Understanding was signed between the Greek and Russian governments for the construction and operation of the pipeline.
The compromise and the prospects that open upWith tough negotiations, after much preparation, the direct privatisation of ADMIE was rejected,
while the government's proposal was included in the agreement in the context of the search for an alternative solution.
The explicit timetable for the separation and privatisation of the "Small PPC", which was insistently brought back by the lenders and domestic interests,
and which had been legislated and initiated by the ND-PASOK government, was put out of discussion and cancelled.
The design and implementation of the various mechanisms that will regulate the production and supply of electricity, on the basis of the EU's general energy policies,
remain open areas of negotiation and assertion to ensure energy as a social good and a developmental asset
with decisive public control of the organisation and management of the whole system.
The programme commitments of ΣΥΡΙΖΑ The international energy environment is not limited to the EU.
Based on the country's particular geopolitical position, a coherent and far-reaching strategic plan is required, aiming at the country's Energy Dominance,
with a plurality of energy sources, partnerships and alliances.
SYRIZA's government proposal aspires to exploit the country's position in the international energy field as a basis for investment,
technological renewal of the existing production infrastructure
and the maximum possible contribution to public revenues.
 For the overall organization of the energy field, it is necessary to develop and implement a National Energy Strategy harmonized with the general policies of the EU
but mainly adapted to the economic, social, productive, geophysical and geopolitical specificities of our country.
To this end, we will set up a National Energy Council in which all sectoral bodies and all categories of consumers will be invited to participate.
 The renewable energy sector is of strategic importance for our country, a factor that is in line with the general European policy.
The exploitation of the domestic potential of RES contributes to the diversification of the national energy mix, the
country's energy security and its participation in climate protection.
 The formation of a pluralistic in its forms social/public energy production sector with PPC at its core (protected from privatisation practices) is proposed.
In addition to the imposed caps on production and distribution of electricity provided for by the agreement in order to artificially create space for private individuals,
we must design the institutional and financial conditions for the establishment of sustainable partnerships with a social cooperative constitution - associated, for example, with the energy autonomy of selected islands, renewable energy technologies or hybrid systems...
Even forms of partnerships or real private productive investments, self-production of industrial units and clusters of agricultural production can be developed.
 A key factor in our energy policy and strategy is energy saving and a radical change in the current energy balance.
The public preparation of an energy saving investment programme will contribute to reducing energy costs,
protecting the environment,
improving the quality of life of citizens,
creating thousands of new jobs by reactivating a large number of small and medium-sized enterprises in the construction sector.
It requires the reform of systemic energy-saving practices into a social policy that makes use of the retired scientific potential and its knowledge,
creates skilled jobs
and is oriented towards the small scale with public infrastructure as the embryo.
On a large scale, the medium-term replacement of the old polluting lignite units with modern ones of much better efficiency and anti-pollution technology is required on an economically viable scale.
 The 'independent' authorities need to be reorganised in order to strengthen their independent role in the public interest.
To reverse the current reliance on market liberalisation rules to premiumise private individuals,
to strict control of prices,
supply and production functions in order to reduce overall costs and prices.
The aim is to integrate them into a public energy policy that will guide and control the market in practices that are compatible with social needs versus energy poverty and productive deconstruction.
 Re-engineering the energy field can unleash the country's stalled research potential on public terms and socially beneficial research results.
A coherent strategy for intervention and planning in the energy field should exploit and further feed public research in directions
such as: clean coal technologies, energy storage in autonomous systems (islands/renewables), hybrid systems to cover the stochasticity of renewables, smart meter technologies.
Feasibility studies on the development of small to medium sized renewable energy plants.
 The aim and objective of the proposed reform of the retail market for PV remains the fastest possible reduction of energy costs in industry and domestic consumption,
increasing the use of direct combustion PV, diversification of supply sources.
Increasing interconnection at regional and European level, renegotiating existing contracts to reduce prices.
The expansion of the use of PV in more areas of the country, together with ensuring the possibility for consumers to choose their supplier,
leads to a rationalization of prices in order to reach the average European level and the reduced
prices of PV to reach the final consumers.
 The settlement of the open issues related to the TAP pipeline is being finalised in order to ensure on a new basis the greatest possible benefits both financially and for local communities.
 Maintaining the strategic position of the State in HELPE allows for international partnerships, the
transformation of the company into an international energy company with increased export orientation
and the company's contribution to the National Energy Strategy.
On the basis of HELPE's current refining capacity, its technological infrastructure and the high expertise of its workforce, policies can be promoted:
--Further leveraging of investments for greater vertical integration of retail and petrochemicals activities with the refining sector, by attracting large and credible international partners.
--Diversification of international sources of fuel and raw materials supply
--Improving the company's productivity through rationalization of operating costs, reduction of financial costs, integration of innovation
2.3.3 IndustryIn the period 2010 - 2015 in the EU and the US, more and more emphasis is being placed on industry
with the aim of increasing the share of industry in GDP through specific measures and actions.
There was no industrial policy in Greece.
The five-year period of the Memorandum exacerbated the traditional phenomena of industrial deconstruction and devaluation of the country's productive potential.
Measures were implemented concerning the labour market with wage cuts and liberalisation in the product market of sectors
that facilitated large local companies and foreign importers at the expense of small Greek companies.
As a result, the already small share of industry in GDP fell from 11% in 2010 to 8.8% in 2015.
Manufacturing employment shrank by 40%, over 300000 jobs were lost.
Any announcements of investment in new and young entrepreneurship have been of a communicative nature.
SYRIZA's strategic orientation The vision of a modern and effective industrial policy must be the development of a modern Greek industry,
as one of the main poles of the country's productive reconstruction, producing high quality products with high domestic added value.
The central strategic direction is the development of productive activities defined by a general interaction of activities from different industries and sectors.
They should be developed along value chains with high added value for the country and include both operational infrastructure (technical support, certification, ...)
and functions such as logistics and transport.
The exploitation of the creative and productive potential of Greek society can be incorporated in a coherent policy of endogenous development,
on the basis of traditional and new local labour specialisations, technological/technical knowledge and empirical skills, starting from the local scale.
The main objective of SYRIZA's industrial policy is to increase the share of manufacturing in the country's GDP from 9%, which is currently 9%, to 14.5%-15%, within the next seven (7) years.
This increase is estimated to lead to a multiplier effect of 1.5-2% growth in overall GDP per year.
At the same time, however, the increased participation of manufacturing in GDP is estimated to have the positive effect of creating 200,000 new jobs in manufacturing
and of increasing total employment (due to the multiplier factor) by about 500,000 new jobs
(the EU has set as a main objective to increase the participation of industry in GDP to 20% by 2020, from 16% today).
To implement this policy, the creation of 200,000 new jobs in industry over seven years
is estimated to require a total investment of around €20 billion, i.e. around €3 billion per year.
The necessary investment funds will be raised from private investment funds (foreign and Greek),
from European funds (NSRF, Juncker programme)
and from public investment funds.
The first government of Αριστεράς A legislative regulation gave life to the Greek Sugar Industry, providing liquidity of 30 million euros
and ensuring the smooth operation of the company, for the benefit of its employees and the thousands of tea producers who cooperate with it.
 In order to ensure legality and to protect the environment and the public interest, two permits concerning the enrichment plant of "Ellinikos Xrysos" in Skouries Halkidiki were withdrawn for inspection.
The technical studies of the Flash Smelting method of the project "Mining - Metallurgical Facilities of Kassandra Mines" were withdrawn
which was qualified as a key component of the investment project as the relevant contractual terms have not been fulfilled by the contractor company Ellinikos Xrysos.
 The effort to reopen the United Textile Industry was supported, as part of the overall plan for the development of the industry in the country.
The necessary steps that all stakeholders - employees, banks, the State - must implement were organized and identified,
so that the reopening of the company under the new cooperative scheme can be a reality in the shortest possible time.
SYRIZA's programmatic commitmentsThe government program of SYRIZA places particular emphasis on: The fields of production that create stable jobs, increase domestic added value
and reduce the external dependence of the economy (e.g. food, specialised crops, economically sustainable exploitation of mineral wealth).
 The exploitation of the mineral raw materials available in our country (metallic minerals, industrial minerals and energy deposits).
 To strengthen the elements of the "Knowledge for competitive production-quality-technology-research" chain, by promoting incentives and mechanisms to strengthen the capacity of enterprises to support the organisation of forms of production that make use of more knowledge, technologies, quality elements, etc.
 To promote innovation in products and production processes, by increasing total (public and private) spending on R&D
and investment in new technologies, innovative entrepreneurship, human capital and skills.
 The creation of a centre (nursery) for innovation and entrepreneurship in new technologies
so that important issues, such as lack of business environment, are resolved centrally by specialised consultants,
lack of qualified staff,
lack of funding
and investing in new technologies,
lack of stability of the legislative and fiscal framework.
 In the strengthening of Small and Medium Enterprises that constitute the backbone of the domestic productive potential, aiming at the production of high value (social and economic) products.
with an environmental dimension that ultimately enhance the country's international competitiveness.
 The creation of a "Greek Product Label (EPC)", with assessed characteristics: the domestically produced added value, the origin of ingredients A, B and packaging materials,
the localisation of the production unit,
the origin of possible intermediate materials (semi-finished product),
the legality of the business in relation to labour legislation,
the existence of a royalty agreement with the parent company (in the case of a foreign parent company).
 To attract foreign direct investment on mutually beneficial terms in sectors with a strong technological character
and growing demand in global markets, using all available economic policy instruments.
 In the use of the credit system and the creation of an appropriate institutional framework to support productive reconstruction efforts.
 In the formulation of realistic incentives with the main objective of reusing (to the extent possible) outdated industrial and industrial buildings.
Their registration is required immediately, their release from various commitments (the bulk of them belong to banks)
and their allocation for the development of new investments with special incentives through the investment law,
and in the context of the development of the social economy (cooperative/cooperative employee schemes).
2.3.4 TransportThe choices made over time by the previous governments in the transport sector are described as a) anti-growth due to the failure to exploit the country's comparative advantages
with a corresponding reduction in the sector's share of GDP,
b) anti-social - anti-environmental due to the total absence of strategic planning for sustainable urban transport.
Of all the transport networks, the neoliberal concept and policy of previous governments focused investments almost exclusively on large road projects,
which are presented as the only development lever,
with the sole aim of serving the interests of domestic contractor interests.
It is worth noting that the transport systems reached marginal operation due to lack of staff, poor infrastructure maintenance, failure to upgrade systems, etc.
The strategic orientation and policy objectives of SYRIZAThe country's natural position in the maritime corridor that connects the markets of Asia with those of Europe is an important strategic advantage in the transport sector.
In Greece, the supply chain sector alone is estimated at around 10% of GDP, while the country's potential is at a very low level.
For SYRIZA, the development and expansion of the transport system focuses on the promotion of combined transport.
The rail network is the backbone on which combined transport will be developed, a key development priority for our country.
In terms of urban transport, we promote sustainable transport which must ensure accessibility and mobility for all citizens, balancing environmental, economic and technical dimensions.
In this context, SYRIZA's objectives for the transport sector include:
 Contributing to the development of sustainable urban mobility and promoting environmentally friendly transport systems.
 Upgrading and improvement of transport infrastructure by using the resources of the Operational Programme "Transport Infrastructure, Environment and Sustainable Development 2014-2020" and other financial instruments such as the CEF (Connecting Europe Facility) programme for infrastructure projects for the integration of trans-European transport networks.
 Promotion of combined transport by completing the institutional framework for the operation of combined transport
 Investments for the development and extension of the rail network
 Improvements to rolling stock and maintenance of railway infrastructure
 Enhancing the use of information and communication technologies (ICT)
 Improving transport safety
 Pericles of bureaucracy
and improving the institutional and legal framework
with emphasis on simplification of procedures
in order to better serve citizens and businesses operating in the transport sector
 Addressing infringements of Community legislation and harmonisation with European Community law in the field of transport
 Implement policies to shift transport from road to rail.
The compromise and the prospects that open upThe position of SYRIZA is that wherever the private sector enters, either as an obligation to the institutions or as a positive cooperation between the public and private sectors, this will be done under the following conditions:
(a) transparent procedures,
(b) substantial quality assurance rules,
(c) strict and substantial social control,
(d) exclusion of monopolistic behaviour and orientation
The above conditions within the framework of the agreement qualitatively differentiate privatisations with a clear social dimension.
SYRIZA's programmatic commitments The central objective of our government policy has been to strengthen the interoperability of all infrastructure projects,
to combat smuggling and illegal transport in general, and to
promote urban mobility and road safety.
Many of these actions have not yet been completed and that is where our programming is focused:
Freight Transport - Supply ChainWe are proceeding and completing the enhancement of the efficiency of the entire transport system and supply chain with the aim of making Greece a transit hub of South-Eastern Europe.
In particular: We promote the upgrading of the freight centres and the tender process for the Triasio Field.
 We promote the green supply chain and the agricultural supply chain contributing to the implementation of the country's productive reconstruction plan with respect to the environment.
 We methodically address all the shortcomings and distortions of the institutional and legal framework.
 We are setting up mixed teams for inspections of road transport networks.
The checks will cover both road safety and transport work.
 We take initiatives to enhance the efficiency and extroversion of the Greek supply chain.
Road Safety In the field of road safety, SYRIZA is committed to the implementation of a strategic plan for the improvement of road safety in Greece over the decade 2011-2020, aiming to reduce road accident deaths by 50%.
In particular, the actions we have launched and are completing include: Revision of the Road Traffic Code with the aim of modernizing the provisions and rationalizing fines.
 Improving the quality of training and defining an objective and transparent procedure for examining candidate drivers.
 Promote systematic and continuous road safety education, in particular in schools at all levels of education.
 Complete the input-output system at petrol stations in order to tackle fuel smuggling.
 Complete the legislative framework to define the specifications, terms and conditions for the installation of alternative fuel systems (LPG and CNG) in existing vehicles.
 Re-opening of all public MOTs
Urban MobilityPromote urban mobility in our cities through the design of a guiding framework defining the specifications for the design of integrated transport interventions in urban centres.
Sustainable Urban Mobility Plans (SUMPs) are a tool to improve the quality of life.
Intelligent Transport Systems (ITS) //With the National Architecture for ITS under preparation, a single national framework for the development of Intelligent Transport Systems (ITS) applications is expected to be created soon.
The aim is to provide innovative services related to the different modes of transport
and traffic management
while allowing users to be better informed
and make safer, more coordinated and smarter use of transport networks.
AviationThe policy axes of SYRIZA are: Modernization of the Civil Aviation Authority (CAA), within the modern regulatory framework and aiming at maximum social impact
 Improvement of the framework for the operation of air transport
 Completion / amendment of the existing legislative framework for waterports,
in order to optimize the licensing process and ensure the smooth operation of waterports after their licensing.
 Upgrade of the Data Processing System through which the entire FIR of our country is monitored for air traffic management (Pallas).
 Implementation of a new procedure for the maintenance of civil aviation aircraft by its own employees, bringing serious benefits to the Agency.
ShippingIn the field of shipping, the mature and necessary objectives are the following: Redesign of the coastal shipping system for a more complete coverage of the social and economic needs of the island territory
 Supervision and control of port operations in accordance with European standards (creation of public port authorities in Piraeus and Thessaloniki)
and at the same time safeguarding the rights of the public, local authorities and cities with new concession contracts
 Targeted initiatives to secure and increase the employment of Greek seafarers in ocean shipping
 Further development of the actions already undertaken to eliminate the phenomenon of unpaid seafarer labour
 Upgrading the navigation service by strengthening its staffing and infrastructure to support the development role of shipping and ports
 Redesign and upgrade of the public maritime education system
and securing resources to address infrastructure and human resources shortages
 Design of a roadmap for the reconstruction of the shipbuilding industry in our country
 Strengthening the infrastructure of the Coast Guard - Greek Coast Guard, supporting the needs of its personnel
and the establishment of a transparent, equal and merit-based system of admission to the College.
 Upgrading the political role of the Ministry
and safeguarding the rights of civilian staff
 Acceleration of the computerization of the services and supervised bodies of the Ministry through the ongoing programmes funded by the NSRF.
2.3.5 New technologiesThe development of new technologies is also a prerequisite for the development of the country's productive capacities as a whole.
In today's globalised economy, the use of new technologies is necessary not only as a strategic productive advantage
but also as the main dike against the decline in wages and the deterioration of the working conditions of the worker.
SYRIZA's strategic orientationSYRIZA believes that especially in the current context Greece cannot rely only on capital-intensive production models
and wants to avoid the imposed one-way street of labour-intensive models.
The knowledge-intensive economy can lead to the production of high value-added goods and services while strengthening the country's economic self-sufficiency and local economies.
SYRIZA recognizes that the highly dynamic productive knowledge-intensive and socially efficient sectors,
which constitute the field of new technologies,
can absorb a large number of scientists, stopping the anti-growth phenomenon of their leakage abroad accompanied by high unemployment at home.
They can also support the modernisation and development of many productive sectors (information technology, telecommunications, agricultural production, metallurgy, construction materials, chemicals and pharmaceuticals, petroleum products, biotechnology, materials technology, etc.)
, contributing substantially to the production of products that are of high quality, diversified, high value-added and with a low ecological footprint.
The productive model of the left goes one step further: it seeks to strengthen those organisational models of production that make use of high technology in order to support peer production.
Increasing the share of peer-to-peer productive activity is a key development objective.
That is why we promote those production models that rely on and are based on different forms of common goods, material and immaterial, in order to achieve:
-access to common goods to the greatest possible extent
-the greatest possible satisfaction of the individual needs and desires of each worker.
SYRIZA's programmatic commitments: design and implementation of evidence-based policies for technological development.
Use available financial resources (NSRF) and large-scale institutional interventions to support and strengthen productive systems, focusing inter alia on the following areas:
Technologies for environment and climate change, such as:
-Anti-pollution, organic materials and resource saving technologies
-Solid waste management -Solid waste management
-Climate change adaptation and mitigation
-Emissions reduction from industry and transport
-Reducing the impact of pollution on vulnerable groups and ecosystems.
Pharmaceuticals - Biotechnology - Medicine, such as:-Developed drugs and redefinition of pharmaceutical substances.
-Development of innovative molecular diagnostic and therapeutic protocols.
-Comprehensive proposal to support the production of high value-added generic medicines, with a detailed, multi-level assessment of their bioequivalence.
-Integrated management of tissue grafts (tissue banks).
-Natural biocides: substances of biological origin and biotechnological methods of their application for the control of insect pests of medical, veterinary and agricultural importance.
-Nutraceuticals: research, development and production. They are derived from plants, but have targeted activity for various diseases.
Information and Communication Technologies (ICT)
-Targeted use of public investment to support and create small and medium-sized innovative companies/formations in the field of information/high technology
-Revision of the criteria and conditions for the allocation of public resources in order to:
 The allocation of public resources in a transparent manner, which protects small and medium-sized enterprises
and prevents the creation of oligopolistic phenomena in this market.
 Ensuring a social contract with the sector of new technology companies in terms of domestic value added, workforce, collective agreements, trade unionism, etc.
So that public incentives are accompanied by corresponding commitments.
 Introduction of obligations for companies (start-ups or others) receiving public funding to be included in the Di@gygia programme, in relation to this funding.
-Improving the legal framework with regulations such as:
 Creation of an application repository for those IT projects created with public funds.
 Create a repository of open and reusable technologies and provide incentives for companies to develop and share open technologies.
 Properly sizing projects so that they are of a size that allows them to be viable after funding is completed.
 Create classes of projects and companies, so that from a certain project size and below small companies are preferred.
 Use of "evaluated yearbook" type procedures for fast and transparent awarding of small projects to many small companies.
 Rewarding domestic added value and know-how (e.g. through the use of free software and open standards).
 Coherent and unified policy in the field of intellectual property with the aim of increasing the production of Greek intellectual property
and the use of open technologies where it is not possible/efficient to produce domestic intellectual property
 Creation of open manufacturing and hardware workshops in regions with an increased contribution to primary production with the aim of knowledge diffusion
and the activation of the triple helix (public - research - private sector) for the benefit of an outward-looking local economy.
Introduction of a specific institutional framework to strengthen the peer-to-peer collaborative economy in the field of new technologies,
and creating a "pole" of attraction for similar projects in our country.
Establish open licensing forms and structures and open manufacturing and hardware licences (such as CERN) in the 'tools' for licensing industrial designs;
-Use and support public infrastructures and organisations that collect, process and provide information necessary to monitor and understand the progress of research, technological development and innovation;
-Reform the legal framework for intellectual property with objectives:
 broadening the scope of the knowledge commons;
 facilitating the creation and support of peer-to-peer and commons-based production ventures; 
enhancing the production of domestic intellectual property in key sectors for the economy;
 opening up and exploiting public patents and intellectual property that remain untapped.
2.3.6 TourismThe effects of the interventions of the two memoranda in the medium and long term have brought about a violent internal devaluation of labour throughout the entire chain of tourism production
and a corresponding violent change in the current pattern of Greek tourism.
The aim of the first government of the left was to reverse these effects on labour and on the model of the tourism model,
so that the flattening of our tourism product would be lifted and bring substantial profits to the Greek economy and society.
The first government of the LeftWithin the framework of our government the following were done: Addressing immediate needs of tourism for the 2015 tourist season with the resolution of problems / needs of professional associations,
interventions for improvements in basic infrastructure at airports and ports.
 Opening new markets in tourism and direct promotion of Greece as a tourist destination in target countries such as Saudi Arabia, Emirates & Korea.
 Specialization of the New NSRF for Tourism in cooperation with the regions of the country and settlement and completion of pending Investment proposals.
 Elaboration and/or completion of draft C.I.A. for the technical and operational specifications of mountain refuges, for camping sites,
for the procedure for the recruitment of local staff in the Foreign Offices of the National Tourism Organization, on the
amendment of the 22212/2008 Decree on special open-type public-use tourist buses for urban tours,
on tourist trains, on the framework for the rental and circulation of classic passenger vehicles (antiques),
on the specifications and licensing procedure for mountain refuges,
which is part of the Citizen Service Centres (CSCs).E.P.), which operate as Single Service Centres (SSC),
so that the interested parties can, in the context of citizen service and the reduction of administrative burdens, carry out this procedure without having to present the necessary documents to the central service of the Ministry.
 In the context of simplifying procedures, we have abolished the procedure for issuing a sticker for the legal operation of tourist accommodation.
 Activities to strengthen our country's bilateral cooperation on tourism issues with Turkey, Israel, Serbia, Russia, Ukraine, China, France, Cyprus, Tunisia, Switzerland, Venezuela and Croatia, Iraq, Togo, Albania, Brazil, China, Kenya, Togo, Albania, Brazil and Kenya.
 Promote the establishment and operation of the Tourism Satellite Accounts System
SYRIZA's strategic orientation and programmatic commitmentsAfter the first, governmental experience of SYRIZA, our initial position is confirmed that one of the first actions of our tourism policy should be the complete inventory
and record-keeping of all productive, natural and cultural elements linked to the tourism production cycle in the country with the aim of achieving.
The basic question that a SYRIZA policy on tourism will have to answer is therefore whether the support of tourism will aim to maximise its contribution to the country's development
or whether its support will be aimed exclusively at harvesting higher and higher figures in tourist receipts and numbers of incoming tourists,
irrespective of the net effect of tourism on the economy and society as a whole.
That is, tourism development should be an integral part of the overall development of the economy and society, linked to the primary and secondary sectors
, or if its autonomous growth should be targeted independently of the other sectors of the economy.
Only a strategic programme for the management and supervision of tourism can prevent and coordinate the intersectoral dysfunctions
and the conflicting interests inherent in the tourism production circuit in the direction of strengthening the interests of the economy and society as a whole.
For SYRIZA, tourism development in Greece should not be a vehicle for a process of "touristicization" of GDP and transformation of the country into a tourist colony,
where a large part of tourists will stay in "tourist villages" excluded from the local population and almost most of the components of the tourist product will be imported at the expense of domestic production, turning the "destination Greece" into a place for depositing and selling consumer products produced in other countries.
In order to avoid such a process and instead to ensure the development of Greek tourism with social reward,
SYRIZA's policy will strengthen the creation of the necessary conditions to link annual tourism consumption with domestic production
at national, regional and local level.
With this basic aim, the strategic programme of SYRIZA will place as a top priority the necessity of maintaining, developing and further improving the tourism model that has existed to date, with the small and medium-sized tourism business as its core
, in the direction of modernisation and greater awareness of its obligations towards the state, the environment and society.
For all the above reasons, our tourism programme and policy to ensure the long-term competitiveness of the sector will be firmly two-pronged:
On the one hand, it will aim to ensure the orderly movement, living and safety of tourists within the national natural and social space
where policies for sustainable tourism development will be implemented with social responsibility
and protection in terms of labour, environment and our culture, taking into account the small and fragile size of the country.
On the other hand, it will strengthen the core quality of Greek tourism by reversing the process of standardization and homogenization observed in the formation of the European and international tourism product,
through the protection and promotion of quality-controlled domestic production.
For the implementation of the above, particular emphasis will be placed on the following:The organic integration of tourism development in a National Spatial and Comprehensive Plan for the Reconstruction of the country's productive base.
The development and implementation of a stable, fair, socially redistributive and progressive tax system,
while combating tax evasion, tax avoidance and corruption at all stages of the production process.
The restoration of labour dignity in the tourism sector,
based on the principle that it is not possible to develop Greek tourism with quality over tourists
without this quality reflecting the quality of life of the country's inhabitants at local and national level, which means:
α) The elimination of phenomena and practices of labour flexibilisation,
b) Combating the phenomena of "slave trade", which is strongly observed in uninsured workers from non-Community countries who are classified as "students",
under the institutional cover of bilateral or transnational agreements between Greece and non-EU countries.
The development, further expansion and establishment of a uniform framework for the implementation of all Social Tourism programs with emphasis on social strata that have been particularly affected in the current crisis
The implementation of a consistent and reliable program for the utilization of the hitherto abandoned and depreciated public tourist properties
with parallel review and monitoring of the use and ownership concession contracts that have been concluded in order to serve the public interest.
Encouraging and strengthening small and micro tourism enterprises to improve and modernise their operational and quality characteristics
and ensure sustainable conditions, by institutionalising their participation in the decision-making process in
order to contribute more actively to the development effort of the economic and tourism strategy.
Establishment of a Chamber of Tourism as an NGO (or transformation of the existing Hotel Chamber into a Chamber of Tourism)
and its institutional cooperation with all levels of Local Government and bodies and authorities related to tourism policy.
The functional and spatial review of VAT rates for businesses directly or indirectly linked to tourism.
The establishment of a development bank under public and social control, with the transformation of an existing bank or the creation of a new one;
The redesign of the vocational tourism education system, with its integration into the general framework of vocational education
, which will be the responsibility of a renewed Ministry of Education and will constitute an autonomous cognitive sector,
with a significant special weight and institutional representation in its operation by the Ministry of Education.
Guide schools are also part of post-secondary education.
Admission to the programme requires specific qualifications, including excellent use of at least one foreign language,
as determined by special examinations focusing on oral language skills and topics related to everyday life, tourism, history and culture of the country.
The universal implementation of the institution of internship as a prerequisite for any degree in the context of the establishment of "Internship Offices" in each School of Tourism,
which will allocate students in cooperation with local businesses in the tourism sector and will ensure
the recognition of the important institutional and developmental but also administrative entity of the Tourism Sector within the framework of the Ministry of Economy, with supervised bodies: (
a) a restructured, strong and with essential functions for the promotion of tourism, a public organisation, the National Tourism Organisation (EOT)
, while at the same time removing, as far as possible, the overlaps and overlaps with the Ministry of Tourism.
b) the Chamber of Tourism as an autonomous or after the evolution of the Chamber of Tourism, cooperating with the Ministry of Tourism and strengthened for the reliable supervision of the quality of tourism production.
The staffing of the GNTO Offices abroad with regular employees with increased formal and substantive qualifications,
following a written examination and an open meritocratic procedure to be carried out with the participation of the GNTO and the Ministry under the auspices of the ASEP
The reform and substantial codification of tourism legislation
The development and implementation of the Tourism Satellite Accounts system for the reliable measurement of the annual size of tourism and the real impact of tourism on the economy and society.
2.3.7 Construction The neoliberal policy's insistence on aggressively promoting the appetites of the 'market' and, consequently,
the complete lack of long-term development planning has had particularly painful consequences for the construction production system (public and private).
The economic crisis led to its collapse.
This has been almost completely destroyed due to, among others, the following reasons: (i) extensive privatisation of public infrastructure in the previous decades, resulting in the prevalence of the quick profit logic
; (ii) lack of reliable, long-term spatial planning; and
(iii) powerful corrupt and corrupting circles that have been monopolizing public resources for infrastructure projects.
SYRIZA's strategic orientation SYRIZA seeks to revitalize the construction sector and to provide our country with a reliable and democratically determined, long-term development planning
for both public infrastructure projects and private projects and construction.
The directions of this planning are as follows: Infrastructure projects. These are essential for social, productive, environmental and cultural cohesion and well-being.
These are long-term investments, which SYRIZA is integrating organically into its strategic planning for the productive reconstruction of the Greek economy.
The priority of our policy is:(a) To clean up the whole spectrum of infrastructure production, since in this sector, corruption and corruption have become a method of governance and over-profiteering.
(b) To ensure that the design, construction and maintenance of infrastructure projects take into account the fragmented natural terrain and the insularity of our country,
and create new, quality jobs.
(c) In addition to transport infrastructure projects (see the relevant chapter),
emphasis should be placed on environmental projects (the lack of which is a cause of condemnation for our country)
such as wastewater collection and treatment infrastructure,
infrastructure for waste management, as well as
anti-fire and earthquake protection projects.
Private projects -Structure:We are reorienting these projects in the following directions:
(a) Qualitative interventions in existing buildings and residences in order to save energy, improve
their seismic protection
and improve their operation.
The related interventions will be part of wider regeneration plans for areas of a city.
Also, such improvements in combination with change of use of vacant buildings can meet the needs of school housing, homeless housing, health centres, etc.
(b) As regards new housing and new buildings, we are promoting a shift in the sector towards building construction and bioclimatic architecture.
We seek to reduce their manufacturing costs by enhancing research and promoting innovation in materials, technologies and manufacturing methods.
As the challenge of seismically safe, environmentally and energy-friendly housing and public buildings requires high expertise and serious research efforts,
this reorientation of the building sector can absorb a large number of currently unemployed young scientists and craftsmen.
The first government of Αριστεράς We set up a legislative committee to elaborate the interventions for the radical reform and consolidation of the system of production of public works and studies.
The new institutional framework addresses the phenomena of corruption, corruption and chronic pathologies,
ensuring rules of transparency, legitimacy, control and accountability.
 The pillars of the interventions are: Implementation of a Centralized Permitting System
 Creation of Functional and Rating Specifications for Public Technical Services and Technical Object Services
 Change of the Design-Build Auction System
 Mandatory preparation of an implementation study, preparation of actual budgets for all projects
 Creation of an International Arbitration Body
 We reviewed public works tenders and initiated their immediate re-bidding
- We reversed the over-concentration of projects to large contracting companies.
We proceeded to audit pending projects, for which tendering procedures had been launched
and we completed checks based on feasibility and efficiency studies of the projects and their tendering procedures, their
funding approvals and their inclusion in the new NSRF (FTA 2014-2020), so that they can be re-tendered.
We ensured the payment of money to people affected by earthquakes, floods, fires
We won tenders for flood protection projects in Attica, Kifissos, N.Makri, Marathon.
We have instructed the Public Works Inspectorate to investigate suspicious contracts
The programmatic commitments of ΣΥΡΙΖΑ We promote the Strategic Planning of Infrastructure Projects by reorienting the planning and programming of infrastructure in the medium term in a
way that supports and enhances the productive reconstruction of the Greek economy.
In particular, we are preparing a new National Infrastructure Strategic Plan, part of which is the strategic plan for transport and the plans for the other infrastructure sectors (hydraulic, flood protection, construction, etc.).
 We are finalizing the adoption of a new, effective and modern legal framework, which, in parallel
and in combination with a specially designed set of actions and rules, will minimize the potential for corruption in the infrastructure sector.
Of key importance here is the new regulatory framework for the design, construction and operation of infrastructure projects
, which we will formulate in consultation with all scientific bodies and professional organisations directly or indirectly involved in these projects.
Our aim is to obtain as a country for public infrastructure projects a clear, simple and codified institutional framework that will ensure:
standardisation and transparency in procedures,
quality and financial control, and accountability the
absence of loopholes and its universal application, the
support of the electronic procedure in public procurement
and the safeguarding of its regulatory powers.
To achieve the above objectives, we are preparing legislative initiatives on the following:
[a] Specifications, standards and regulations for infrastructure projects
Rationalisation and rebalancing of the pre-costs.
Clauses to Designers for foreseeable unbuildability.
Establishing and rewarding, during the design phase, the so-called value engineering, i.e. designing to reduce costs
without compromising the quality and functional characteristics of the project.
Introduction of evaluative criteria in tendering for design contracts.
Establishment of a service package for Designers ("Design and on-site Project Supervision with Final Cost Commitment").
Tackling the "problems" in environmental permitting of projects:
creation of a file of studies, AEPs, compliance files, special studies and regular renewal of AEPs
Public consultation on all major projects, already from the planning phase.
Strengthening the supervision of projects in the implementation of environmental commitments.
Strict adherence to financial data
[b] Operation and maintenance of infrastructure projects
Obligation of the Administration per project sector to develop a hierarchical, time-based and adequately costed maintenance plan,
Specific obligations for public infrastructure managers and control of their compliance
Strict adherence to and updating of the Project Register.
Continue to record the seismic shielding problems of strategic infrastructure
and avoid unacceptable risks (e.g. schools, administration buildings, hospitals, bridges).
Ensure that the public sector technical limited companies (Themis Construction, DEPANOM etc.) will acquire a viable business plan
and will be exploited as cutting-edge players and know-how (e.g. by strengthening their participation in major foreign projects in the roles of project manager, Engineering Consultant or Independent Engineer).
The same is true for companies such as EYATH and EYDAP with similar or even greater technical capabilities.
We establish the possibility to execute projects under the joint responsibility of two or more structures,
as appropriate (e.g. OCC and Municipality, two Regions, etc.) and at the same time we simplify the related procedures.
We establish clear rules for public social consultation both during the planning process and during the design and operational phases of projects.
We are expanding and strengthening the institution of co-operative cooperative enterprises of the social economy across the entire spectrum of the construction production system.
 We are creating a new body or transforming an existing one that will aim to promote innovation across the whole spectrum of the construction sector.
 We are creating a special governmental structure that will have the purpose of promoting economic diplomacy issues related to contracting and designing private engineering companies and public limited companies.
2.4 Environmental protectionSYRIZA recognized in its political program in time that the international economic crisis has as an integral, central dimension the ecological crisis that is manifesting itself violently at the planetary (climate change)
and local level (environmental disasters and resource extraction).
Today, especially in countries and regions subject to economic dependence and domination, capital's strategies for the devaluation, monopolization, overexploitation and mismanagement of the environment are intensifying.
It reproduces and reinforces a distorted model of development that we have known throughout the previous decades of neoliberal counter-attack and produces bubbles and ruins.
The context of the memoranda The policy on the environment and spatial planning in Greece has always been in the grip of big interests and the clientelistic party system at all levels.
This is particularly true for the period since 2011, during which the framework of spatial and urban planning and the mechanisms of environmental impact assessment have been sweepingly deregulated.
With the memorandum legislation, vital assets such as forests, water, beaches, open spaces, have been severely damaged in favour of "investments of national importance".
The environment was found to be politically subdued, but socially resonant and powerful with dozens of local movements and thematic networks.
Moreover, despite rhetoric to the contrary, the environmental licensing and investment control process has not been simplified by the 2011-14 memorandum laws,
while there are several ambiguities and gaps in the interpretation of provisions.
The competent services of the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources are increasingly understaffed and depreciated, resulting in a prolonged regime of opacity and arbitrariness in many cases of projects and investments.
Strategic orientation and policy objectives of SYRIZA The strategic objective of SYRIZA's policy remains the social and ecological transformation of the production model,
the substantial integration of the environmental dimension in the programmes for the sustainable reconstruction of the economy.
The country has a unique natural and residential environment, with special characteristics
that add value to the entire production process
for a number of sectors of the economy (tourism, food production, manufacturing and industry, renewable energy) and regions of the country.
Good environmental quality is an important comparative advantage and a condition for meeting basic needs, while improving the quality of life of all residents in many ways.
The model of sustainable productive reconstruction that SYRIZA is presenting to society is the opposite of the model of overexploitation and arbitrariness that we have known.
It focuses on environmental protection, citizen participation and the creation of quality jobs.
It seeks to restore the tools of public planning that have been dismantled in previous years.
It focuses on the use of available renewable resources, domestic scientific knowledge
and existing potential for social innovation, particularly at local level.
SYRIZA's government policy in the various fields of environmental policy has certain general, "horizontal", objectives:
 Modernization of planning, licensing and development control procedures:
creating conditions of legal certainty - necessary for citizens and investments.
 Restructuring of the governance system: reduction of bureaucracy, strengthening of the staff services of the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources,
social accountability of the administration,
independent environmental justice mechanisms
 Utilisation of public real estate under strict conditions relating to the ecological importance of each area,
environmental-spatial legislation and the implementation of best practices
 Addressing violations of EU legislation, harmonisation with the promoted European institutional acquis for sustainable development
 Strengthening the Constitutional protection of the environment and public common goods - especially water as a human right.
 Active participation in international negotiations to tackle climate change in terms of justice and solidarity between generations and countries
The first government of the LeftWith a series of service changes in the structure of the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources, and with moves such as the revocation of permits related to the investment of "Ellinikos Xrysos" in Skouries of Halkidiki,
the government of SYRIZA has shown its determination to ensure legality
and protect the environment and the public interest.
Specifically, during our administration: A special committee was established to study, elaborate and submit proposals for the reform of forest legislation,
in the context of the restoration of legislative regulations that have put the country's forest and natural ecosystems in a difficult position.
 A special committee has been set up to make proposals for the national system of administration of protected areas and the natural environment.
 The final draft of the draft PDO for the protection of the Kyparissia Gulf is being elaborated,
while the draft ratification law of a transnational agreement for the protection and sustainable management of the Prespes Park has been completed.
 In order to prevent the risk of collapse of the public environmental protection mechanism implemented by the Management Bodies,
the programme for the institutionalisation - management of the Natura 2000 network of Protected Areas in the new programming period of the NSRF has been approved.
 The National Waste Management Plan has been revised in the direction of strengthening alternative, decentralised management,
cancelling the large mixed waste treatment plants.
The adaptation of the Regional Plans to the objectives and guidelines of the new national planning is progressing.
 A plan for the complete elimination of uncontrolled landfills is being developed, in cooperation with the Secretary General for Waste Management Coordination and the WFM,
in order to minimise the financial penalties imposed on our country in 2014 for breaches of EU legislation.
 An EIA on water use permits was issued to facilitate compliance with the existing framework,
with simultaneous actions to simplify procedures and inform the public and support farmers.
SYRIZA's programmatic commitmentsProtection of forests and natural περιβάλλοντος We are working on the reform of forest legislation: a
definition of forest and forest areas must be adopted immediately, which will specify and not overturn the interpretative statement of Article 24 of the Constitution.
 We proceed to clarify the framework of possible interventions in forests and woodlands with a view to developing investments that comply with the protection, development and utilisation of the forest ecosystem.
Issues of forest cooperatives are regulated, which are strengthened not only for logging but also for protection, biomass management and soft exploitation of other forest products.
 Improvement of the system of administration and management of the protected areas of the Natura 2000 network.
Provide a public guarantee for the institutional organization and financing of the work of the management bodies of the country's Protected Areas,
through the incorporation of their needs in the State Budget, which is currently being drafted,
the review of their institutional status and their upgrading, taking into account the findings of the National Dialogue for the effective implementation of a Public Environmental Policy
 Promote legislative regulation, with the aim of speeding up procedures
and the resolution of dysfunctions in the process of ratification of forest maps, which is a prerequisite for the completion of the country's cadastral survey and the existence of a forest inventory.
 We aim to create a unified and vertical, multidisciplinary staffed environmental service, on the model and basis of the forestry service, which will manage natural terrestrial and aquatic ecosystems holistically.
Solid Waste Management Αποβλήτων Reforms of the institutional framework of Recycling and Alternative Waste Management are being promoted for the benefit of citizens and society,
with the amendment of Law 2939/2001 regarding the operation of the National Recycling Organisation (EOAN) and the Alternative Management Systems (AMS).
 Approval of the Special National Plan for the Management of Hazardous Waste, the
preparation of which is being completed and the Strategic Environmental Impact Study will soon be submitted for public consultation.
 Arrangements are being promoted to facilitate local authorities to locate, through consultation, soft waste management infrastructure, in implementation of the recent National Waste Management Plan.
Technical and administrative support actions for municipalities, in cooperation with the Ministry of Interior, for the preparation and implementation of Local Municipal Plans.
 Strengthening the role of social economy actors in the implementation of alternative management plans with emphasis on source separation actions
Water Πόροι Progress is being made in establishing general rules for costing, pricing and cost recovery of water services.
Water is protected from privatisation as a public good and guaranteed access for all to water supply/sewerage services
 We promote the saving and rational management of water resources in agricultural production, tourism, energy production and industry.
An EIA has already been issued on water use permits, while simplifying procedures and supporting farmers.
 A revision of the river basin management plans and the modernisation of the legislation on watercourses is underway.
Environmental licensing and έλεγχος In order to improve the environmental licensing of projects and activities, we promote the amendment of Law 4014/2011 in order to update and optimize its provisions,
which will also lead to the desired simplification of procedures.
Our goal is to complete the revision process of Law 4014 within the next six months.
 Implementation of the Electronic Environmental Register (Article 18 of Law 4014/2011):
This is the transition of environmental permitting procedures to a fully digital environment, which will be a pioneering move at EU level.
The pilot operation of the project has started, on a very small scale and, under certain conditions, the
full operation of the EMS is estimated to be implemented by the end of 2015.
We are reviewing the feasibility of establishing the Register of Environmental Auditors and the Register of Certified Assessors of Environmental Impact Studies (no. 16 and 20 of Law 4014/2011),
taking into account that the competent Services of the Ministry (based on the recent Decree 100/FEK 167/28-9-2014) are functioning satisfactorily and there is room for further optimization.
Besides, according to the case law of the Council of State (CoE), environmental protection issues are the exclusive competence of the State,
which cannot be transferred to other bodies due to its hyper-local dimension and importance.
3. The strategic horizon of neoliberalism is nothing but the continuation of the degradation of the welfare state and the perpetual effort to shrink social rights.
SYRIZA's position is on the opposite side of such a plan.
It focuses on defending the necessity of the welfare state with an egalitarian horizon,
on strengthening the social wage, on
providing quality services for the benefit of all citizens
but also discriminating in favour of the economically weak.
SYRIZA's orientation is (a) to negotiate in order to protect social rights on the points that are affected by the agreement and
(b) to implement a policy of strengthening rights and defending the welfare state on the points that are not covered by the agreement.
It is to continue to fight a constant battle with the lenders and with the ruling complex in Europe, as well as to
continue to clash with the dominant ideology in Europe and Greece in order not only to defend
but also to strengthen social rights.
3.1 Humanitarian crisis and protection of vulnerable social groupsSYRIZA's strategic objective is to cover all those affected by the humanitarian crisis and to
protect all vulnerable groups of the population.
We will move along the following two tracks: a) We are expanding the humanitarian crisis programme, creating a safety net for the victims of the crisis and for the economically vulnerable groups.
(b) We change the character of the whole welfare system in the country:
from an opaque, institutional and subsidy-based state to a welfare system of public character and democratic control.
The compromise and the prospects that open upOur partners insisted on providing a minimum social income, i.e. a low cash benefit.
We will use the knowledge and experience we have gained from the humanitarian crisis programme to provide targeted services and benefits, in addition to the allowance.
The first government of Αριστεράς Law 4320/2015, the first law of the government of the Left after the elections of January 25th, was passed unanimously and implemented in record time using immutable criteria and electronic procedures nationwide.
200 million euros were made available from the state budget for 9 months.
Of the 300,226 applications (633,288 persons) based on the criteria and budget, the following were granted:
A first assistance was the free reconnection of cut electricity to beneficiaries.
An innovation was the Solidarity Card, which is credited each month for 9 months with 70-220 euros, for use in all food outlets.
For the first time, the Operational Programme TEFA (European Aid Fund for the Most Deprived) has been activated, with a total budget of €330 million over seven years.
Of this, €135 million will be used directly in 2015 and 2016.
The CBC is being used to further support the victims of the humanitarian crisis
and at the same time to create an umbrella of protection, cooperation and democratic control at local level.
The programme includes in-kind benefits such as food, general cleaning and personal hygiene items,
but also critical accompanying services such as psychosocial support services, legal assistance, social tutoring, etc.
A number of legislative arrangements for its implementation, covering all technical aspects of the programme, have already been completed, so that not a single day, not a single euro, is lost.
The establishment of 57 partnerships across the country, involving Regions, Municipalities, NGOs, NGOs, NGOs, consumer organisations, the Church and informal social solidarity structures.
The electronic registration of beneficiaries on the basis of 233,797 applications, corresponding to 500,309 persons.
Innovations include:The fact that the food supply will include fresh products (fresh meat, fruit and vegetables).
The fact that for the €105 million foreseen for the year 2016, the procurement will be carried out by the social partnerships
in order to significantly stimulate the local market (the central management of the first €30 million of procurement was undertaken by the General Secretariat of Commerce).
Within the framework of the National Strategic Plan for Social Inclusion, we proceeded immediately and completed within the set deadlines (30/6/2015):
the revision of the policies and strategic objectives of the National Strategic Plan for Social Inclusion with a modern, people-centred approach.
At the same time, we have refined this Plan to shift its focus from the traditional category approach to the universality of coverage.
Action Plan on the Monitoring Mechanism for Social Inclusion and Social Cohesion Policies.
SYRIZA's programmatic commitmentsWith the experience and knowledge we have gained, for the first time we are drawing up a nationwide poverty map
and proceeding with targeted actions to further address the humanitarian crisis.
The following are planned for the near future:The issuance of travel cards for disabled persons, large families, three-child families, the unemployed and low pensioners over 65 years old.
The activation of uninsured health cards.
School meals for primary school pupils: a key action to tackle child poverty is the introduction of school meals in primary schools across the country, prioritised according to the poverty map.
The programme will start in the last quarter of 2015 with a healthy snack in primary schools in large urban centres, which will gradually be extended to all schools.
For this purpose, we are coordinating funds from the TEBA and, in cooperation with a large bank,
we are creating a special account for the collection of deposits from individuals, businesses or organizations in Greece and abroad.
This account starts with first contributions from systemic banks and the GEPD.
Managing the good of food: Food is precious to be buried or thrown away.
We issued a joint ministerial decision with the Ministry of Rural Development on unused fruit and vegetables and distribution in a transparent and non-discriminatory way through the 57 partnerships.
We will move to table and vote on an amendment that will require large supermarket chains to make food that can be safely consumed before its expiry date available to solidarity structures, charities and foundations.
In this context, there is also an amendment concerning the abolition of population criteria for the operation of legal markets without intermediaries.
Open-air markets without intermediaries, provided they meet all legal requirements, will be able to operate in all areas, without the population restrictions currently in force (only in areas with less than 3,000 inhabitants).
The aim is to make agricultural products available at low prices from the producers themselves and in large urban centres.
Design of a National System of Social SolidarityIn cooperation with international organisations and with the assistance of scientific working groups, we are establishing a new legislative framework for Child Protection, Third Age and Disability, which will define: the
standards for the establishment and operation of child protection and closed protection structures for the elderly;
the revision of the framework for the fostering and adoption of minors; the submission of a framework/umbrella law for all children regardless of their origin, age, gender, physical, mental and psychological condition;
the creation of a framework for the fostering of the elderly;
the revision of the system of open protection for the elderly (KAPI, KAFI and Help at Home).
Safety net (social income) for vulnerable groupsSYRIZA aims, in the second government of the Left, to continue to weave the social protection net, with the main pillars being income support and benefits in kind (housing, energy, health, transport),
and the targeted assessment of the personal needs of economically vulnerable groups.
This action will be combined with a reduction of bureaucracy and simplification of procedures,
by linking beneficiaries to the labour market,
but also by compiling an electronic file of beneficiaries,
in order to allow control,
transparency and the exclusion of possible clientelism.
3.2 Public Health System with universality and efficiencySYRIZA seeks to build a new public health system, modern and functional, which effectively addresses the growing health needs of the population.
A Health System that is reliable, people-centred and financially sustainable, capable of providing universal access, equitable and quality health care.
The set of reforms, actions and investments to strengthen universal coverage planned for 2015-2019 are grouped under 3 axes:
 The substantive right to universal access to quality health care and public health, with financial protection.
 Transparent and modern governance of the health system.
 Sustainable financing of public health care.
The compromise and the prospects that open upThe main commitments of the agreement concern the re-pricing of generic and off-patent medicines,
e-governance and control of prescription and referral tests,
the collection of outstanding clawbacks, the
development of health technology assessment for negotiating drug prices.
These regulations are embedded in our programme, in the direction of protecting the public funding of the NHS
and minimising the financial participation of patients.
The first government of Αριστεράς Abolition of the 5 euro "access fee" to outpatient clinics of hospitals and health centres.
 Emergency plan to ensure the functioning of public structures with the extension of the term of all auxiliary staff until 31/12/2015 and the overall planning of 4500 permanent recruitments of doctors and other nursing-paramedical staff, for the first time after 6 years.
Already launched the 1st batch of announcements through AΣEP about 1000 positions of employees in hospitals,
while the 2nd batch of about 2500 doctors - nurses - other paramedical and administrative staff for the wider area of health has been approved by the PYS.
 Acceleration of crises and appointments of permanent doctors in the NHS from notices of previous years that were "frozen".
 Facilitation of the recruitment process of auxiliary doctors and increase of the contract period from 1 to 2 years ( for provincial hospitals) or to 3 years for special departments ( ICU, ICU, MTN, ICU, Oncology Departments, Mental Health structures, ED).
 Announcement of 3025 unemployed positions for the institutions of the Ministry of Health through Public Benefit Labour Programmes of the OAED.
 Cooperation between the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Defence for the staffing with military doctors of unstaffed regional clinics in inaccessible, remote and island regions.
 Attempt to normalize the flow of payments for doctors' on-call and overtime of staff, who thanks to their zeal and diligence still keep the NHS standing
 Revision of the institutional framework (with the adoption of a CSA) for the health coverage of uninsured people, without income criteria and bureaucratic obstacles.
 Repeal of health provision 39A which had favoured stigmatisation of patients and social racism.
 Coordination of the health care of refugees-migrants and support through the CEILPNO of the medical clinics in the first reception areas and the hospitality area in Elaionas.
The programmatic commitments of ΣΥΡΙΖΑ Ensuring universal access to public health services for all citizens, uninsured, migrants and refugees.
No citizen without access to medicine and necessary health services.
Universal and equal coverage of the population's needs with a health card and insurance coverage for all, including the uninsured.
 Pilot implementation and gradual expansion of the Primary Health Care (PHC) network, with decentralised neighbourhood health units, family doctors and multidisciplinary health teams with a comparable population of responsibility ,
being the first point of contact of the citizen with the Health System , coordinating his/her overall health care and managing health problems.
 Ensuring access for all to specialised primary care, through transformed and re-staffed primary health care units.
 Improving quality, enhancing safety and rationalising hospital care.
Supporting the NHS with a contingency plan to meet operational needs and huge staffing gaps.
Completion of recruitment of permanent staff in all categories. Reorganization of public hospitals with :
1. Creation of autonomous Emergency Departments ( EDs) - establishment of specialization in Emergency Medicine; interconnection of EDs-EKAB;
2. Upgrading of the information system of appointments and operation of Regular Outpatient Clinics,
transparent list of surgery and management of ICU beds with the aim of equal , timely and transaction-free service to patients.
 Reform of the procurement system and supply chain of hospitals - "Material failure observatory" and "electronic warehouse" for all public facilities
4. Patients' rights offices in hospitals
5. Promotion of social economy forms in the field of hospital support services
6.   Establishing a different social ethos in the NHS, in partnership with its most honest and trusted forces.
 Completion of psychiatric reform, towards the transformation of asylum and the development of sectoral, primary and community mental health services ,
with respect for the rights of mental patients.
Administrative Reform of the Mental Health Service System with a shift of the centre of gravity of the decision-making system from the central administration (Mental Health Services) to the MPEs and the planned Sectoral Directorates of Mental Health (D.D.M.H.Y.).
 Strengthening the effectiveness of interventions on public health issues at the local level; intersectoral cooperation with local community stakeholders and coordinated preventive actions on social determinants of health (work, income, nutrition, housing, water supply, sanitation, heating, hygiene and safety at work, environmental protection, road safety, etc.).
 In the policy on addictions we emphasise the area of prevention, with priority being given to halting the upward trend in the use of addictive substances.
Solving the institutional problem of the Prevention Centres,
in the direction of implementing a national strategy for addictions
with uniform scientific supervision and coordination of individual actions.
Ensuring the right of addicts to treatment,
through a holistic model that combines and integrates all scientifically documented therapeutic approaches and interconnects all structures.
Elimination of the list for inclusion in substitution programmes through the creation of Direct Access Units of Okana.
 Rationalisation of drug prescription and diagnostic tests through the implementation of electronic treatment and diagnostic protocols.
 Transparent, inclusive and modern health governance through an efficient and effective public administration.
 Participatory governance of hospitals, empowering the voice of patients and employees
- Transparency and accountability at all levels of management
- New system of hospital management, ensuring meritocracy, democratic functioning,
representation of employees,
patients and local communities,
transparency , public accountability and social control,
with the ultimate goal of equity,
quality and efficiency of health care provided.
 Investing in e-Governance of the Health Sector - promoting and managing innovations
- Providing an electronic health card for all,
with the creation of an electronic registry for patients and service providers,
establishing e-governance in health, completing and operating the Health Charter for democratic planning of NHS services,
reducing bureaucracy and citizen inconvenience,
drastically addressing the challenging demand,
waste and corruption in the Health System.
 Upgrading the education of health professionals.
FAIR AND SUSTAINABLE FUNDINGSustainable funding of the Health System requires the uniform management of the sources of funding,
i.e. health insurance contributions and general taxation.
SYRIZA's objectives for the next four years are: Protecting the population against the economic consequences of illness,
reducing the direct burden of patients as a percentage of total health expenditure
 Gradual restoration of public health expenditure to the average EU levels,
with transparent financing of health structures
 Reinvestment in PHC, prevention and Public Health that in the long run reduce the cost of care.
 Sustainable pharmaceutical policy for the benefit of patients, public finances
and domestic pharmaceutical production.
Upgrading of public pharmaceutical policy by strengthening - reorganizing the EOF-IFET,
increasing the penetration of quality generic drugs and reducing the percentage of patients' participation in the cost of medicines based on social and disease-related criteria.
 Restructuring of the EOPYY, restructuring of its services and control mechanism,
strengthening the role and competences of the EOPYY Negotiation Committee to improve the economic conditions of cooperation with health professionals, providers , the pharmaceutical industry and other service providers.
Ensure the immediate reimbursement of health insurance contributions.
Setting a closed budget for very expensive innovative medicines (High Cost Medicines - HCMs)
and negotiating prices based on volume and proven therapeutic benefit.
Re-pricing of laboratory tests combined with volume-based tiered rebates,
as well as diagnostic guidelines and real-time control of referrals.
Integration of diagnostic and therapeutic protocols into the e-prescribing system to effectively address demand generation, waste and corruption.
3.3 Sustainable and decent social securityThe basic strategy of neoliberalism is to reduce the redistributive role of the social security system by transforming a system based on intergenerational solidarity into a neoliberal model of intergenerational conflict
and an individualised social security system with a strong presence of private pension schemes.
The pension system before the memoranda was neither fair nor efficient.
It was fragmented and unfair, with multiple minimum pensions, many of which even then did not correspond to what should be the essence of any pension, that is, to cover the needs of pensioners for a decent living.
A mosaic of different rules dominated and continues to dominate, reflecting the clientelistic way in which the pension system was built.
This situation was aggravated by the implementation of the memorandum laws, law 3863/10 on Social Security and law 3865/10 on public pension of the first memorandum and law 4093/12 of the second memorandum.
The implementation of these laws will lead to pension cuts without ensuring the sustainability of the system and will condemn many pensioners to poverty and destitution.
SYRIZA's strategic orientation SYRIZA's claim for a public and universal social security system with a redistributive character is not limited to guarantees for adequate funding.
The reform of the social security system is part of a broader effort to strengthen the welfare state, social structures, fight social inequalities and eradicate poverty.
The solvency of the insurance system can only be ensured through the combined implementation of policies to reduce unemployment,
institutionalise the minimum guaranteed income,
defend labour rights without discrimination,
strengthen full employment and fight against uninsured work.
The compromise and the prospects that open upWith the new agreement, the government has made budgetary commitments for the social security system that amount to 0.25% of GDP for 2015 and 1% of GDP for 2016.
Direct pension cuts came from: (a) the commitment to provide a minimum pension and ESSP only to those who have reached 67 years of age
and a cut in the non-contributory part and
(b) the increase of the health sector contribution from 4% to 6% and the introduction of a 6% contribution to supplementary pensions.
A gradual increase in the age limits was introduced, so that from 2022 the retirement age will be 67 years for a full pension or 62 years with 40 years of insurance,
excluding heavy and unhealthy occupations and parents of disabled children.
The consolidation of all funds into one main and one supplementary insurance fund
can be beneficial for the insurance system as the consolidation, if it avoids the mistakes of the past, can result in a reduction of administrative/operational costs,
simplification of procedures and faster service for the insured.
In any case, the SYRIZA government guarantees that there will be no new pension reductions due to the consolidations.
The implementation of the zero deficit clause, which the SYRIZA government had stopped for 7 months,
can be replaced with equivalent measures that will save the corresponding resources for the social security system.
The abolition of the ESAS was a permanent goal of the lenders and the Greek government managed to achieve its temporary preservation
while the phasing out will be completed in 2019, starting from the 20% of beneficiaries with the proportionally higher incomes.
Within the agreement it is explicitly stated that the Greek government must adopt parallel measures to support these groups.
A key point for their support is the radical reform of the Minimum Guaranteed Income to fully cover the above categories of low pensioners.
The commitment to reduce the non-contributory part of the OGA pensions may lead to reductions even in the minimum pensions of 360 euros.
It goes without saying that for the SYRIZA government the adoption of such a measure cannot be done without the expansion of the Minimum Guaranteed Income which will cover the losses for this category of low pensioners.
The application of income criteria for the insurance contributions of self-employed persons (OAEE, ETAA, OGA) may lead to a significant reduction in contributions for the lower categories of self-employed persons and an increase in contributions for high income earners.
In the negotiations we succeeded in being given the opportunity to formulate our own alternative proposal for the reform of the social security system to replace the memorandum measures that provide for the implementation of the anti-insurance legislation of PASOK-New Democracy of 2010 (Laws 3863 and 3865) and 2012 (Law 4093/2012).
The implementation of this anti-insurance legislation alone will lead to pension cuts without saving the sustainability of the system.
Our concept wants to strengthen the social, redistributive role of the pension system
and is at the opposite end of the spectrum to the logic of the lenders who insist on strengthening its contributory character.
For this reason, a special committee was set up at the Ministry of Labour to submit alternative proposals - scenarios in this direction.
These proposals will be widely consulted and form the basis of a national plan for a fair and sustainable pension system.
The first government of Αριστεράς Simplifying the operation of the CCPs by introducing a new, improved system for the provision and monitoring of disability pensions.
 Establishment of the Special Scientific Committee to update and update the Unified Table for Determining Disability Rates
and to review the list of irreversible conditions with a view to expanding it.
 Extension of the disability pension
as well as the granting of welfare benefits and medical care in cases of termination of pension entitlement due to disability
and if a medical judgment is pending at the KEPA, through no fault of the insured person.
 With the revenues from the regulation of 100 instalments in the insurance funds, a decisive "breath" was given to small and medium-sized enterprises, the self-employed and the insurance funds.
By mid-August, around 300,000 citizens and businesses had settled debts to the social security funds amounting to €5.6 billion and the amounts received by the social security funds amounted to €269 million.
The release of thousands of OAEE and EBRD insured persons who, while meeting the retirement requirements due to their debts, could not retire.
 Decriminalisation of the debts of the self-employed to the social security funds
and reduction of their social security contributions by introducing the possibility to choose as three lower social security classes.
 Maintaining the same income criteria for granting the ESAS for 2015.
The programmatic commitments of ΣΥΡΙΖΑ Establishment of a new socially just social security system with a better intergenerational balance and ensuring that all pensioners are protected from the risk of poverty and social exclusion.
 Fight against black and uninsured work, which reaches 25%, by supporting, staffing and strengthening public control mechanisms (Labour Inspectorate, IKA's EPEA and the control centres of the insurance funds),
with active and institutionalised participation of workers' trade unions in the controls,
with the full legal and service coverage of the auditors from unscrupulous employers,
with the abolition of legislative regulations or circulars that left "windows" for undeclared work or unduly hamper the control of services
or that leave those who violate labour and social security legislation unpunished.
 Fully safeguard vulnerable social groups such as people with disabilities and workers in heavy and unhealthy occupations.
 Full electronic interconnection of the information systems of the insurance funds and their interconnection with the KEPs in order to achieve faster service for the insured.
 Link insurance contributions to income criteria for the self-employed, with a view to increasing the burden on high incomes
and reducing contributions for those with low incomes.
 Targeting of the CIFO on large debtors through the use of the list of large debtors of the social security funds to increase their revenues.
 Possibility of offsetting claims between insured persons and the State in order to facilitate the fulfilment of their social security obligations.
 Provide incentives for workers to assert their right to declared and fully insured work and provide for the right of workers' representatives to intervene and control within companies and on construction sites.
 Facilitate enterprises by providing them with an appropriate infrastructure to enable them to meet their obligations towards the insurance funds.
 Extension of social benefits for pensioners (free distribution of annual public transport cards based on income criteria,
extension of social tariffs for public utilities, special subsidies for basic necessities for certain categories of low pensioners on the poverty line, etc.).
 Codification of insurance legislation rules.
 Decisively tackle corruption where it occurs.
3.4 Democratic restructuring of educationThe aim of SYRIZA's government policy is to implement a major democratic radical reform at all levels of education, from pre-school to post-graduate education.
The reform will consist of the necessary major breakthroughs that will constitute the counterpoint to the strategic horizon of neoliberalism
and restore all the conditions for a genuine cultural renaissance of the country.
SYRIZA's strategic orientation SYRIZA aims at a public, free, democratic and qualitatively upgraded education system, based on the principles of equality and freedom.
The first government of the Left.The first government of the Left undertook a series of initiatives in primary, secondary and higher education in order to reduce the dysfunctions and problems that had been created in the public education system by previous governments
and to pave the way for the democratic radical reform of its education system that is imperative today.
Primary and Secondary EducationRemoval of the Subject Bank, which reinforced the examination-centred nature of the Lyceum, and its transformation into a consultative tool for teachers.
Abolition of the Panhellenic examinations of the A and B high school, an action that significantly reduced the examination burden of students
and relieved their families financially.
Abolition of the calculation of the grades of all classes in the system of access to higher education.
In this way, university entrance examinations were decoupled from the examinations for the acquisition of a Lyceum Baccalaureate.
A change in the examination system of the Panhellenic examinations with a reduction in the number of subjects to be examined,
with the possibility of communication between the scientific fields and with a broadening of the choices of candidates for access to higher education.
Abolition of the unscientific and anti-educational consolidation of model and experimental schools, giving each its own distinct role.
At the same time, entrance exams were abolished in the experimental schools, ensuring by lottery the random sample of students they must have to perform their role.
Inclusion of linear and free drawing as an elective course in the 3rd grade,
so that students interested in taking national examinations in these special subjects can be prepared in public schools.
Establishment of measures to foster a climate of democracy in schools, such as:
-- Maintaining objective qualification criteria and replacing the opaque "interview" in the election process of school principals with the vote of the Teachers' Association.
The "interview" was the main means by which previous governments arbitrarily appointed the principals they wanted;
--Removal of the automatic suspension of teachers and the Legislative Act for the prosecution of students in cases of occupation;
--Removal of the legislative framework of punitive evaluation of teachers.
Technical - Vocational Εκπαίδευση Re-establishment of the sectors and specialisations abolished in technical and vocational education and training
and the re-employment of all teachers who have been suspended, transferred or dismissed and their reassignment to EPALs.
Curricula for all classes in the above fields and specialties were developed and have been reopened since September 2015.
We should note that since their abolition in 2013, 20,000 students were affected every school year.
Tertiary Εκπαίδευση Cuts have been made in the issue of student transfers.
Legislation was enacted to set a 15% ceiling and introduce an objective system of weighting based on economic and social criteria.
 Study issues have been regulated by abolishing the measure of the deletion of students.
 Pathologies in the area of textbooks were addressed and a plan to reduce their cost was prepared.
 Completion of a draft law removing obstacles to the operation of Higher Education and Research Institutions, which the call for elections found the House Committee on Education at the doorstep of the House Committee on Education.
SYRIZA's programmatic commitments.With the experience and knowledge we have gained, we will continue the democratic reform of all levels of education, aiming, through the
necessary dialogue with the educational community and all stakeholders,
to complete the educational reform in the direction of consolidating equality in access to education and educational outcomes as well as freedom of expression, thought and research.
To this end, we are planning a series of breakthroughs, the first immediate commitment being the adoption of the multi-bill which we had put out for public consultation and which has already been submitted to the Parliament for adoption.
Preschool Education - Primary - Secondary Education.Addressing the problems and the revision of the institutional framework of preschool education.
 The upgrading of the Lyceum as an autonomous educational level, with a diploma certified and recognized abroad.
 The comprehensive restructuring of the school curriculum and the creation of new school curricula and books in primary and secondary education that serve:
-The development of the student's free critical thinking,
the systematization of his knowledge, his love of education,
his interest in the arts and culture,
the training of his body
and participation in sports activities at school.
-Understanding of the social, cultural and natural environment
and the actions to improve it (Environmental Education, Human Rights Education, Health Education, Art and Aesthetic Education, Sports, Culture, etc.)
-The encouragement of each student's particular interests and the promotion and cultivation of his/her particular inclination.
The actors of this project, students and teachers, should be given more free time to develop their interests and the latter should be given incentives and freedom of action to respond creatively and be judged for their work.
 Changes to textbooks to serve the above objectives and the introduction of a single textbook per subject, where appropriate, with a three-year teaching flow, while providing for the provision of exemplary assignments aimed at deeper understanding of the material.
Identification of the syllabus and contents of the book.
In this context, it is necessary to make programmes and books more attractive in order to arouse the interest of the student (e.g. restoring narrative and immersion in the history lesson and linking it to the parallel world historical events,
local history with approved programmes, uniform treatment of science in secondary school, new concept in the teaching of ancient and modern Greek language and literature,
language - mathematics - history - natural world - geography - human body - artistic expression - sport,
a stable cultural zone with emphasis on books,
cinema, theatre, music, visual arts, dance).
 Establishment of new ways of assessing knowledge by reducing the time of examinations in secondary schools in favour of teaching time.
 State certificate of language proficiency in two foreign languages and state certificate of computer literacy from public school.
Necessary changes to the school timetable, curriculum restructuring and new textbooks.
 Pilot establishment of a high school course in the arts (theatre, cinema, dance, music) and their integration into the high school curriculum.
 Pilot institution of sports schools and strengthening of school sports.
 Gradual implementation of the possibility of free access to higher education, starting with those schools for which there is low demand.
 Upgrading of the IEP as a lever for research and organisation of reform and the writing of new books
 Mitigation of educational and social inequalities;
-Establishment of remedial teaching and additional teaching support;
-Implementation of parallel support programmes for children with learning and other difficulties;
-Strengthening of institutions of compensatory education policy.
 Special education: SYRIZA's programme envisages at least one special school per education directorate
and at the same time clear related structures, differentiated and individualised educational programmes in Integration Departments in each school.
 Continuous training and multifaceted support for teachers. Upgrading the role of the School Counsellor.
 Creation of a new assignment map by discipline and grouping of disciplines where necessary.
Establish objective criteria for awarding contracts on the basis of a bachelor's, master's or doctoral degree.
 Restore the supervision of the labour relations of private teachers in the Ministry of Education by the Ministry of Labour.
 Immediate and comprehensive restructuring of the institutional framework and structure of the administration and organisation of education after dialogue with the education community.
 Continuous evaluation of school work.
Schools must immediately become a vibrant cell of the local community
and operate as centres of innovative initiatives, creative employment and culture in cooperation with parents and social stakeholders.
 Establish a new system of permanent appointments.
The multi-bill of the Ministry of Education, which has already been submitted to the Parliament
and whose passage is our commitment,
includes the abolition of the problematic in every respect grid of laws for the punitive evaluation of teachers
and establishes a new alternative way of evaluating the educational work through the collective structures of the teachers' associations.
Labour issues concerning permanent and substitute teachers are also resolved in a positive way.
Technical - vocational educationThe central axis of SYRIZA's programme for immediate measures to support technical and vocational education is the formulation of a single relevant framework with actions such as:
 The institutionalization of post-secondary technical-vocational education and training.
 The abolition of the VET schools and the integration of their programmes into the structures of the IEKs
 The strengthening of the operation of the EPALs with changes in their structure, as described in the multi-bill that has been submitted
 The promotion of the institution of apprenticeship in vocational training with certification and continuous monitoring of companies and trainers, in order to ensure the educational character of apprenticeship.
 The creation of a public unified system of vocational training by improving the employment relations of hourly paid teaching staff in Second Chance Schools and Continuing Training structures.
 Extend the operation and strengthen the institution of Lifelong Learning Centres.
Tertiary Εκπαίδευση Commitment to the immediate passage of the multi-bill which restores democratic legitimacy to the Universities, has already been introduced in Parliament and which includes the following:
-Removal of the Foundation Councils at the Universities of Applied Sciences.
-Participatory and democratic operation of the collective bodies with the participation of all members of the university community (faculty members, students and employees)
-Restoration of Departments and Divisions as cells of academic life
-Establishment of enlarged and transparent electoral bodies for the election of faculty members at the universities.
-Upgrading degrees with Integrated Master programmes
-Restoration of academic asylum.
 Reconfiguration of the map of Higher Education and Research with the aim of creating a Single Area of Public Higher Education and Research with academic and geographical criteria linked to the country's development plan.
 New Framework Law for Higher Education Institutions with criteria of democracy, academicity and extroversion
(curriculum review,
premium for educational work,
the use of scientific staff,
organisations - internal regulations,
supervisory financial and administrative control body, etc.)
 Immediate utilization of young scientists in the educational and research activity of the universities with national and European resources and with the aim of reversing the outflow of human resources abroad.
Fighting the "black" employment of young scientists in universities and other research institutions.
 Reforming university studies, removing the examination-centred orientation.
Creating e-classes and exploiting other possibilities provided by the internet.
 Eliminate pathologies and reduce costs in the academic textbook distribution system.
 Tackling the phenomena of degeneration of student work where work, at all levels of study, is carried out for a fee by individuals or companies.
 Reconstruction of student care, with food, housing and student halls of residence support programmes, aiming to meet the needs of at least first-year students facing financial difficulties.
3.5. Long-term policy for scientific researchThe vision and long-term goal of our policy is to promote scientific research conducted in Greece:
 To be a support for Education and Culture
 To participate systematically and actively in the international scientific community
 To be a driver of growth and innovation, a pillar of productive reconstruction
The first government of the Left. We established for the first time the position of Deputy Minister of Research and Innovation in the Ministry of Culture, Education and Religious Affairs (MPOPAITH),
thus creating the conditions for the establishment of a Single Area of Education and Research.
In close cooperation with the General Secretariat for Research and Technology, the new sector created in the Ministry of Research and Technology has assumed responsibility for the formulation of a long-term national research policy
that will exploit the country's remarkable scientific potential and developed research infrastructure in the process of productive reconstruction.
 We have taken specific initiatives concerning the institutional framework and the funding of scientific research.
More specifically:At the institutional level, the Research and Innovation sector:
 has formulated a set of amendments, which are included in the multi-bill of the Ministry of Research and Innovation that is currently being passed and aim at a complete revision of the current law 4310/2014.
Preparations have also been made for the formulation of a new framework law for Research that will completely replace the current law.
 introduced urgent regulations on a number of pending issues, such as the establishment of project evaluation and certification bodies, the
legitimacy of management bodies and the updating of the framework for the operation of supervised entities.
For the NSRF programmes and the new programming period (FTA 2014-2020):
 An important priority of the Research and Innovation sector was the support of the country's internationally competitive scientific potential, which is one of its comparative advantages.
For this reason, brief steps have been taken to clarify the roadmap through which the new programmes will be used.
The interventions made by the staff of the sector and the GET in the Community strategy of "smart specialisation" are decisively addressing the phenomenon of brain drain
, which has assumed huge dimensions with more than 20,000 qualified scientists having emigrated abroad during the 5 years 2009-2014 - 10 times more than in the previous 5 years.
 Under the new NSRF, specific actions are planned with a total expenditure of more than €80 million,
also focused on halting the brain drain of young scientists abroad.
These actions target more than 2,500 young scientists (postgraduates, doctoral candidates and postdocs).
 As regards the current NSRF programmes, in order to address the huge needs of projects to be completed in 2015, an
increase of the annual budget ceiling by €42 million has been achieved as a first step.
At the same time, an increase of EUR 11 million was approved for the co-financing of competitive programmes (Matching Funds).
Measures such as the extension of the closure of the Cooperation, Excellence, Thales and ERC projects were also taken.
To ensure long-term funding of Research and the sustainability of the research fabric:
 An important step was the preparation for the creation of a special Research and Innovation Fund dedicated exclusively to supporting the country's academic and research ecosystem.
This fund will be based on the leveraging of public and private resources with clear and transparent rules that safeguard the public interest while responding to the needs of Research.
Public resources will come mainly from the Structural Funds (the new "NSRF") and private resources from European Investment Bank (EIB) financial instruments.
In a first phase, it is estimated that a total capital of more than €1 billion will be raised for the purposes of the fund.
SYRIZA's programmatic commitments.SYRIZA is committed to implementing a far-reaching research policy that is structured along the following axes:
 Utilization of the country's excellent academic and research potential,
based on a holistic logic that will include synergies of universities and research centres in different geographical areas according to their comparative advantages.
 Institutional armouring of the research system through a framework law that will ensure the public and academic character of research institutions,
but at the same time provide the necessary flexibility for their management and supervision.
 Sound management of available resources in the new programming period to
ensure the sustainability of research infrastructures, the
production of original scientific work and the maximum possible participation of young scientists in the research process.
 Devising new funding schemes and instruments to promote the exploitation of research results,
so that, with the resulting innovation, scientific research can be a driver for changing the country's production model.
This is precisely the context of our actions for the creation of the mixed fund mentioned above.
The new fund will be the forerunner of an independent research funding body
and will ensure both continuity in the flow of funding and the
linking of research production with start-up entrepreneurship for the benefit of society.
3.6 Culture and sport for all 3.6.1 CultureThe SYRIZA programme framework for culture is governed by the fundamental principles that culture is a self-interest and a common good.
It is a source of knowledge, self-awareness and education for citizens, a tool for combating social inequalities and discrimination and enriching everyday life.
At the same time, however, it is also a source of wealth and jobs, a major challenge in a period of deep economic crisis.
There are three main axes on which the government has moved and the SYRIZA programme for Culture is being developed:
 Exploitation of cultural heritage as a public good.
 Streamlining, reform and democratization of the supervised bodies of the Ministry of Culture, which are concerned with contemporary culture.
 Support for artistic creation by all appropriate means.
The first government of the Left In the above directions, the following were launched in the past months:
 Radical reform of the organisation and institutional framework of the Archaeological Resources Fund, the body responsible for the revenues from the management of cultural heritage,
ensuring its public character and putting an end to the devaluation and pathologies of the past.
The aim is not only the optimal promotion of archaeological sites and museums,
but also the increase of revenues and the international promotion of the country.
 Harmonization of the pricing policy of the visited archaeological sites and museums with the levels of other European countries,
with care to ensure that there are social criteria for not burdening special groups such as pupils, students, unemployed, etc.,
and to give the possibility of free access two or more Sundays per month in periods of low traffic.
 Introduction of electronic ticketing and a centralised sales control system in archaeological sites, museums and ticket offices.
 Development of programmes for international promotion of cultural heritage and upgrading of communication and educational programmes of state museums.
Linking cultural heritage with contemporary creation.
 Targeted actions to link the promotion of cultural heritage with tourism development,
and integrated spatial interventions so that cultural heritage and contemporary culture infrastructures work in combination and multiply with all other forms of economic activity, locally, sectorally and regionally.
 Commitment to include in the budget of the Ministry of Culture an amount equal to the percentage of the tax deducted from cinema tickets,
which will go to a special code for the benefit of Greek Cinema.
SYRIZA's programmatic commitments Cultural HeritageOur country has the enormous advantage of a unique cultural heritage, ancient and modern.
In recent years we have seen previous governments embracing the neoliberal model and the State withdrawing from its constitutional obligations to support cultural and cultural life.
The aim was to gradually transfer the management of museums and archaeological sites to private individuals, with all the consequences that this can have.
 For SYRIZA and the Left, the state can and must act not only as an institutional guarantor, regulator, controller and conservator,
but also as a manager of cultural heritage, as required by Article 24 of the Constitution.
For SYRIZA, the Ministry of Culture can and must become an effective and creative producer of wealth,
while protecting our cultural heritage from unjust and exclusively speculative uses.
This does not exclude cooperation with the private sector, provided that it is on a sound basis and that strict terms and conditions are respected.
Our goals are to address the chronic pathologies of the field, but also the recent almost total abandonment of contemporary culture by the state, in particular:
 Restructuring of the supervised institutions of contemporary culture that operate in the field of music, theatre, dance and visual arts with the aim of improving the services they provide,
opening them to society and rationalizing their operating costs,
while ensuring the jobs provided by law.
 Change the institutional framework and launch tenders with transparent procedures and meritocracy for the heads of the supervised institutions.
Artistic directors will be selected following a call for applications by the boards of directors.
 Evaluation and periodic audit of the supervised bodies by internal audit bodies of the Ministry of Culture.
Preparation of internal regulations and organisational charts.
 Restructuring of supervised bodies Decentralisation, synergies with local government (municipalities, regions)
and networking of organisations with common themes or objectives.
 Design of a national development policy for the cinema,
which will encourage investment in the production of Greek films and the
attraction of foreign productions in our country,
attract foreign productions to our country,
link all film festivals in a network
and facilitate the coordination of different sectors and the creation of production synergies.
Ensure the collection of 1.5% from the channels.
Consolidation of their obligation to produce quality Greek fiction programming (TV films/series).
 Upgrading of the state policy on books and libraries, support for small and medium enterprises in the book sector, promotion of Greek book production abroad through the financing of translations.
Creating an integrated network of public libraries.
Supporting young artists and promoting the creative economyIn recent years, artists, despite the dire economic conditions, continue to produce, with meagre resources and little return, a rich and diverse body of work.
We could talk about an artistic renaissance, but it remains on the margins, without mechanisms of support, promotion and promotion.
The objectives of a progressive cultural policy can only be the diffusion of the product in society, the
removal of social and economic exclusions,
in terms of access both to the enjoyment of the cultural product and to the creation itself,
the meeting of high art with lived culture, everyday culture and popular culture,
the elaboration of an integrated archival cultural policy
and the encouragement of all social groups to participate in cultural life.
Specifically: In place of a patronising and opaque policy of financing contemporary creation, our aim is, with resourcefulness and
using every means at our disposal to offer infrastructure, support and promotion of the work of young creators.
 Encourage the development of an alternative, collaborative economy in the field of culture, by offering spaces, integrating collaborative businesses in job creation programmes, utilising European programmes,
using new technologies and the internet to promote contemporary artistic and literary production,
facilitating international exchanges and the dialogue between Greek creators and their foreign colleagues.
 Addressing the phenomenon of black and uninsured work in the field of art that has been growing in recent years.
 The amendment of Law 3525/2007 on cultural sponsorship is essential for the overall development of a multifaceted cultural policy.
Formation of a sound and functional institutional framework for cultural sponsorship,
with transparency and safeguarding of the public interest, with rules and limits,
without aesthetic interference in the artistic work of the sponsor,
but at the same time with respect and recognition of his/her contribution.
Encourage small cultural sponsorship for private productions by creating tax incentives.
 Graduation of degrees of theatre, cinema and dance schools. Overall upgrading of the level of artistic studies provided with the aim of creating a Higher School of Performing Arts.
3.6.2 SportThe main objective is to increase the actual number of people participating in all forms of sporting activities, to
maintain and improve public and municipal sports infrastructure, to
support human resources and to establish conditions of transparency, equality and democracy in sport as a whole.
We are creating a sports system compatible with citizens' leisure time, with another ecological policy,
part of a different model of residential development and serving the immediate needs of society.
The first government of Αριστεράς systematically and effectively began to combat violence and corruption in sports venues through the law: "Urgent measures to combat violence in sports and other provisions", which is a law of the state.
 The Sport for All Programmes were significantly strengthened and the amount available from the regular budget was doubled.
 A pilot programme for primary school children to learn to swim was planned, in cooperation with 30 municipalities, to start in March.
 The National Anti-Doping Council has been strengthened and the World Anti-Doping Agency charter has already been prepared, to be adopted by the Greek state.
 The Equivalence Committee of the General Secretariat of Sport has been re-established.
 The law and the legislative framework as passed by 3036 was put into effect, regarding the
operation of the electronic ticket, the operation of the supervisory control of stadiums, the turnstiles and the fan card.
The programmatic commitments of ΣΥΡΙΖΑ Strengthening Sport for All Programmes
 Pilot programme for learning to swim for primary school children.
The aim is that by the end of the four-year period, all children in 3rd and 4th grade will have participated and will be able to swim safely.
 Workplace sport. Inclusion for the first time under the auspices of the GSA of all the championships in the field of workplace sport.
 Implementation of anti-doping prevention and training programmes for athletes and in education.
 Institutional measures for the support of club sport
 Reconstruction of the National Centre for Sports Research (NCSR) with the orientation of supporting club sport and national teams.
Re-staffing with appropriate human resources and renewing its equipment.
 Initiatives and actions for the development of Sports Tourism by exploiting the geophysical and climatic local characteristics (Ski Centres e.g. Kalavryta, nautical sports infrastructure, mountain facilities)
 Maintenance and spatial planning of sports facilities
 Rational allocation of human resources professionally involved in sport.
 New organisational chart of the GEA based on real operational needs with evaluation and judgement of staff.
 Completion of the electronic platform of the GSO and statistical x-ray of Greek sport data (2015-16)
 Creation of a Unified Sports Equipment Procurement System
4. 4.1:
 They have a more flexible format, cost less, and focus on qualitative indicators of effectiveness and efficiency,
 Making the most of the defence potential and the defence industry
 They have a solid democratic orientation as well as strong links with society.
The first government of Αριστεράς We created the Public Utility Air Operations Management Service where all public utility aircraft will be integrated under a single legal framework, in order to provide Search and Rescue, Air Ambulance, Air Firefighting, Organ Transplantation for transplantation within and outside Greece.
 We created the Transnational Project Service of the Armed Forces, with the aim of utilizing the capabilities of the Armed Forces for the implementation of projects in border areas of the continental-island.
It has already started its operation with the rehabilitation of the road to connect villages with the capital in Ikaria.
 We have established the Armed Forces Real Estate Utilization Service,
so that this utilization can be used to finance projects and actions for the benefit of the logistics of the personnel.
 We ensured the contribution of the Armed Forces to the response to the humanitarian crisis by providing, among other things, feeding facilities for professional groups within the military services and establishments.
We also took care of the feeding at the Open Space for Temporary Accommodation in Elaionas.
 We submitted a draft law that, among other things, regulates the following: Establishes a meritocratic and impartial system for the transfer of soldiers by establishing an objective system of grading.
This system addresses a decades-old pathogen: the transfer of soldiers according to variable criteria.
 It establishes the possibility for private doctors to fill vacancies in rural medical practices in remote areas.
A similar possibility is introduced for lawyers and for all professional groups.
Our aim is to reconcile service with professional life.
 Resolves issues of conscientious objectors to incentivize them to serve while reducing the volume in military courts.
 Allows measures to be taken to provide for personnel with serious social problems.
The programme commitments of ΣΥΡΙΖΑ Reorganisation of the National Defence Forces with the aim of creating a smaller, more flexible, more cost-effective and efficient organisation. Ω
Holistic and synthetic approach to needs - enhancing qualitative characteristics by introducing quality, effectiveness and efficiency indicators in all vital functions of the ED.
 New institutional framework for democratic and social control of the ED, in line with the most advanced countries in this field, with
the aim of enhancing transparency and combating corruption in procurement
and establishing democratic accountability for important aspects of the ED's functioning.
This new framework will include new-innovative institutions that will exercise control and oversight over individual areas of the ED
and will give substantial powers to the parliament to approve planning
and the procurement of defence equipment as well as the control of the operation of the ED.
 Damn democratisation, strengthen meritocracy,
improving the living conditions of ED staff with a package of measures including:
review of the institutional framework for the status, hierarchy and promotions as well as for transfers and assignments of staff to positions of responsibility,
the establishment of a Military Ombudsman,
establishing principles of equality and transparency in deployment/transfer and improving the living conditions of conscripts,
a radical and substantial overhaul of the Agency for civilian staff
and accelerate staff accommodation programmes in the border units.
 Ensuring the sustainability - productive reconstruction of the defence industry with priority focus on productive sectors that are of strategic importance for the protection of the country's vital security interests.
These sectors will be specified in the National Defence Industrial Strategy (NDA) as well as the specific policies and actions that will be launched for each of them.
In both the NAPA and the revised law on procurement of the Armed Forces, there will be an explicit provision that the country will claim domestic industrial participation from prospective suppliers/manufacturers, within the framework of European legislation and in particular Article 346 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the EU, if it does not have other ways to develop/maintain these sectors.
4.2 Multidimensional foreign policy The country's way out of the all-round crisis is inextricably linked to the pursuit of a new, multidimensional, proactive and peaceful foreign policy.
The SYRIZA government has promoted and will continue to promote a new model of foreign policy, which exploits the country's political and geopolitical position,
and promotes its international relations, political and economic, in a way that responds to the major upheavals that are taking place both regionally and globally.
In the seven months of our government and despite the existing restrictive conditions, our country has gained its own independent voice in the European Union (EU), as well as in the wider region and globally.
Foreign policy, which will continue to be pursued in this direction, aims to promote the interests of the Greek people, to
resolve outstanding foreign policy, defence and security issues on the basis of international law, and to
enhance Greece's international, European and regional role as a pole of peace, stability, economic development and justice.
Greece negotiates in all the international organisations and fora in which it participates, sometimes with ruptures or compromises, but always with its own voice.
Without uncritical alignment with the plans of great powers, which do not serve national interests.
Without geopolitical ideologies that lead the country into diplomatic or economic isolation.
Greece and the European UnionGreece's participation in the EU is a central factor in its foreign policy, in terms
of its international role and negotiating power, its international economic relations and the management of international challenges, such as the management of refugee and migrant flows.
The persistent stance of our government, in cooperation with other countries of the South,
has brought European policy on immigration and the treatment of refugees under review today.
The policy currently imposed in the EU by the neoliberal political majority under the hegemony of the German government,
reinforces the power asymmetry to the detriment of the countries of the European South.
A key element of the dominant, neoliberal policy of Brussels is the great democratic deficit that has been highlighted in the harshest way in the recent developments on the "Greek issue".
SYRIZA rejects the nationalist folding as an alleged response to EU policy.
At the same time, he believes that it is the dominant policy of the EU leadership that threatens Europe with disintegration and revives far-right nationalism.
The government of SYRIZA will continue to fight for the containment of neoliberal authoritarianism in the EU,
at the economic, political and geopolitical level, with the aim of changing the balance of power in favour of the interests of the European peoples, but also to promote an independent European policy for peace and stability in the wider region.
The aim of our policy is a social and democratic Europe of prosperity for its peoples, respecting the national and popular sovereignty of its member states and being a factor of peace and international cooperation.
Defence and security policyGreece is at the centre of a triangle of crises and destabilisation hotspots, including Ukraine in the North, Libya in the South-West and Syria and Iraq in the South-East, with the emergence of the dangerous forces of Islamic fundamentalism.
At the same time, it shares borders with countries of the Eastern Mediterranean and the Balkans, where nationalist tensions are often noted.ω At the
same time, NATO contributes to regional destabilisation by leading alleged "humanitarian operations", which have fuelled the eruption of crises in the wider region,
but also by promoting the militarisation of Eastern Europe while fostering a Cold War climate.
SYRIZA supports the need to ensure Greece's defence and deterrence capabilities.
We make use of our bilateral relations and our country's position in international organisations to defend its sovereign rights, respect international law and UN resolutions,
as well as to defend peace and stability at regional and global level.
The SYRIZA government has promoted and will continue to promote a coherent strategy that highlights and strengthens our country's role as a pillar of stability and peace in the region,
with an active role in diplomatic mediation and multilateral cooperation.
Our goal is to achieve a collective security policy that includes Russia and ensures that tensions are prevented and disputes are resolved by political means.
In the framework of this strategy, SYRIZA supports an active policy for the Balkans, through the strengthening of bilateral and multilateral inter-Balkan cooperation
and support for the accession path of the Western Balkan countries to the EU, ensuring the inviolability of borders, the
resolution of disputes on the basis of international law
and full respect for human and minority rights.
We firmly support the finding, in the framework of UN-led talks, of a mutually acceptable solution to the issue of the name of FYROM, on the basis of a composite name with geographic designation for all uses,
against nationalist tensions and irredentism on either side of the border.
At the same time, we attach particular importance to defending the rights of the Greek minority in Albania.
Middle East - North AfricaThe key to peace in the Middle East region is the resolution of the Palestinian issue on the basis of UN resolutions.
SYRIZA firmly supports the establishment of a Palestinian state on the 1967 borders with East Jerusalem as its capital
and the conclusion of a mutual security agreement between Israel and the Arab states.
At the same time, we seek to further develop relations with both the Arab countries and Israel, under conditions that do not burden countries and peoples that are friendly to Greece.
At the same time, we support UN-led international initiatives to ensure peace and stability in Libya, Iraq and Syria, to counter Islamic fundamentalism and to protect ethnic and religious minorities.
Furthermore, we consider the end of the conflicts in Turkey to be an immediate priority.
and the resumption of the Kurdish peace process.
Finally, SYRIZA welcomes the recent agreement on Iran's nuclear programme, which should be a
springboard for promoting peace in the Middle East by developing our bilateral relations.
Syriza firmly supports that the Middle East should be a zone free of nuclear or other Weapons of Mass Destruction.oh
Russia - Black SeaSYRIZA opposes the intensifying Cold War confrontation in Ukraine and supports the observance of the Minsk agreement by all sides.
For the security of the countries of the region, international understanding together with Russia is necessary, not without or against Russia.
Greece, building on its traditional relations with Russia, Ukraine and the Caucasus countries, is working with European partners to strengthen the role of the OSCE and a Europe as a bridge to a new architecture of security, peace and stability.
Greek-Turkish RelationsSYRIZA will work for:-The resolution of the issue of the delimitation of the continental shelf between Greece and Turkey on the basis of the Convention on the Law of the Sea.
-Greece's right under international law to declare its Exclusive Economic Zone
and cooperation with other neighbouring countries in the Mediterranean, with the aim of delimiting maritime zones.
-The promotion of initiatives to develop trust between the two peoples and, in this context,
the further strengthening of bilateral cooperation in the fields of economy, energy, tourism, transport and cultural cooperation.
SYRIZA supports Turkey's European perspective, provided that Turkey fully complies with international law and the European acquis,
respects the principle of good neighbourliness,
safeguards democratic rights, and
respects its international and European obligations regarding minority and religious rights.
The Cyprus issueThe cooperation and coordination of Greece with the Republic of Cyprus in all areas is a key axis of Greek foreign policy.
SYRIZA remains committed to efforts to resolve the Cyprus issue, supporting a just and viable solution, based on UN resolutions,
which will mean the withdrawal of Turkish occupation troops and lead to the reunification of Cyprus in the form of a bizonal, bicommunal federation with one sovereignty, one citizenship and one international personality.
The agreed solution must be consistent with Cyprus' status as an EU member state
and pave the way for the liberation of the Cypriot people, Greek and Turkish Cypriots, from the presence of foreign troops, bases and guarantors.
It is important that the growing destabilisation in the Eastern Mediterranean does not stifle the hope for a solution, which has been
generated after the recent resumption of direct talks with the TC community.
Economic and energy diplomacyGreece, respecting its contractual commitments, does not cease to look beyond Europe and the West, to the Eastern Mediterranean and the Middle East, to the emerging powers of the BRICS (Brazil, Russia, India, China, South Africa), the wider Black Sea region and Latin America, with an emphasis on economic, energy and cultural cooperation,
developing connectivity,
tourism and shipping, as well as
promoting its exports and attracting investment.
Our goal is for our country to become a hub of energy networks, transport and trade between Europe and the Eastern Mediterranean on the one hand and Asia and the wider Black Sea region on the other.
The SYRIZA government is moving forward with strategic planning in the energy and transport sectors,
aiming to conclude strategic cooperation agreements
that will substantially benefit the country and the people,
safeguard the strategic role of the public sector in terms of transparency,
protect labour rights and respect the environment.
Hellenism in the Diaspora Hellenism in the Diaspora contributes to the internationalisation of Greek claims and the promotion of the country's strategic interests.
The aim of the SYRIZA government is to promote a coherent strategy for the support of the Greek diaspora and the utilization of the creative forces of the Greek Diaspora.
We are working to build a two-way relationship between expatriates and their homeland,
aiming on the one hand to solve chronic problems and outstanding issues (education, pension and tax rights, diaspora voting)
and on the other hand to make a more dynamic contribution of Greek communities to the national cause of productive reconstruction and the country's development
(tourism promotion, cultural diplomacy, attracting investment and boosting exports).
