At the beginning of the 21st century, fifteen years after the collapse of 'actually existing socialism', the expansion of globalisation, the rapid development of new technologies (especially in the fields of information technology, telecommunications and the internet) have radically changed the economic environment across the globe and have intensified competition between economies.
The free market economic system has prevailed everywhere.
The socialist and social democratic parties in the developed countries of the Western world, in order to survive in modern reality, have for years been forced to abandon their socialist excesses and adopt, often clumsily, the principles of the free market economy.
For our country and the other countries of the euro area, the change in the economic policy framework is more profound.
It is determined to a considerable extent by the Stability Pact, by the conduct of monetary policy by the ECB,
but also by other EU policies, such as the Common Agricultural Policy.
This means that important tools for the exercise of economic policy no longer belong to our country, but to EU institutions, in which we participate, of course.
The governments of the PASOK, in order to be able to maintain power in the new environment and to meet the criteria for membership of ONE, which was a demand of Greek society, made a 180° turn.
They adopted the principles of the free economy but in a clumsy and perverse way.
The necessary decisions for the country's adaptation to the European framework are being taken with delay, with regressions, with delays and in the background.
Always narrow-hearted and trying not to displease the trade unions by which they are supported.
The result has been disheartening.
Greece entered ONE with strict austerity and "creative accounting".
But in the crucial area of structural change, no real progress has been made.
We were the last and poorest in the EU with a plethora of structural and developmental problems, which have been lingering and are finally looking for a solution.
The developments of recent years have fully confirmed the supremacy of the liberal ideology of the NW and vindicated its firm commitment to the principles of free economy.
Our choice combines free entrepreneurial initiative with social sensitivity and economic efficiency.
This creates common rules for all and ensures equal opportunities for economic and social progress.
We believe that only a free economy can ensure an increase in national wealth and only a free economy can support a sustainable and effective social policy.
For the New Democracy, social policy is not simply identified with certain welfare benefits, but with the totality and quality of social services (education, health, social security) and infrastructure that create a framework of security and safety, within which every citizen can create and progress.
Despite the difficulties that have accumulated in recent years, our Programme provides solutions to problems and, above all, a perspective for our country.
Greek citizens today feel uncertainty and insecurity about their future.
The economic data reveal major problems and serious weaknesses.
In recent years the growth rate seems to have been above the Community average.
But the questions remain:
- is the country moving at the pace it should and can?
- Are the fruits of growth being spread to all?
- Are we ever going to achieve real convergence? The
answers to these questions are clear:
- Any increase in GDP is mainly due to the massive inflow of Community funds, the Olympic projects and the unprecedented fall in interest rates.
- At current rates, convergence will not be achieved in half a century.
But this is also theoretical.
Because the growth rates of recent years are due to occasional factors, which are not certain to continue in the future.
- Community resources are under-utilised, thus minimising their contribution to raising the potential growth rate of the economy.
- The country is not running at the pace it should and could.
In the last ten years, Greece has increased its per capita income by only 4 percentage points, while Ireland has increased its per capita income by 40 percentage points.
- Growth today is skewed:
It does not reach either the whole country or the whole of society.
It is a unique phenomenon in the world to record a statistical rise in GDP and to find that budget revenues are lagging behind, the market is suffocating,
employment is not growing,
savings are limited,
poverty is expanding and regional inequalities are widening!
All surveys show that citizens themselves consider unemployment to be the most important problem of the economy.
It is not only the unemployed and their families who are directly affected, but also large sections of the population who live in fear of future unemployment, as they see large and small businesses closing down, one after another, without new ones being created at the same rate.
The unemployment rate is 9.5%, the second highest in the EU.
According to the OAED, the unemployment rate is even higher.
More than 50% of the unemployed are looking for work for more than 12 months.
Unemployment among young people, especially young women, has been dismal.
One in four young people are unemployed, while one in three young women are unemployed.
Even the employment rate as a percentage of the total population is much lower than the EU average, which is due to the lack of employment opportunities.
Real unemployment is even higher if we take into account the underemployment in many rural areas, in many small family businesses and liberal professions, as well as the hidden unemployment of overpaid and underpaid employees in the narrow and broader public sector services, recruited under the patronage system.
Citizens consider the problem of accuracy, which in recent years has been systematically eating away at their income, to be just as serious as unemployment.
The prices of many basic goods and services have soared, as have the prices of services offered to consumers and businesses by public institutions.
The rate of inflation in Greece is almost twice the EU average, which systematically undermines the already weak competitiveness of the Greek economy.
Those in power all these years have not understood that prices are not held down by administrative measures, by threats and bullying, but by structural and developmental measures, by measures to strengthen the competitiveness of businesses, by ensuring the functioning of free competition, by information and transparency in the market and by organising a genuine consumer movement to create consumer awareness and behaviour.
Despite the fact that we have had three Community Support Frameworks and the inflow of huge financial resources from the EU, the Greek economy remains the poorest of the 15.
Per capita income as a percentage of GDP is 68.9% of the EU average, whereas in 1980 it was 70%.
Ireland, which was worse off then, is now much higher than us, having far surpassed the EU average.
The poorest regions in the EU are Greek.
Epirus with per capita GDP at 47% of the Community average, Western Greece, the Peloponnese, Eastern Macedonia - Thrace with percentages slightly above 50%.
20% of the country's households live below the poverty line, compared to 15% of the EU average.
The worst thing is that the welfare state is not working.
In Greece only 3% of households escape the poverty line due to social benefits, while in the EU, where expenditure on social benefits is almost at the same level as in Greece as a percentage of GDP, the corresponding average rate is 9%.
In the last six years, household debt has increased sixfold, while private savings have shrunk dramatically.
This means that the government's social policy has failed completely.
Our country is last in public spending on education,
research, new technologies.
We pay twice as much as any other European for the education of our children.
Free education has become a great myth.
Finally, we are in the bottom 15 in terms of public spending and first in terms of private spending on health care.
The images in state hospitals, outpatient clinics, health centres, IKA clinics, etc., are an affront to culture and man.
The fiscal problem is once again looming.
The public debt ratio is the second highest in the EU, while budget execution in 2003 showed serious slippages.
Despite the government's promises to reduce public debt, it remains at very high levels and burdens the national economy with huge interest payments.
Recently, the government, under pressure from the Statistical Office of the EU (Eurostat), admitted that the public debt is not 99.6% of GDP, but is 7 percentage points of GDP higher than it claimed.
But the reality is even more unfavourable, since there are huge "black holes" in the wider public sector, which have not yet been counted (e.g. the accumulated debts of the Olympic Air Force, the debts of hospitals to their suppliers, the liabilities to the social security funds, the huge "black hole" of ATE from uncollectible debts, the overruns in the cost of Olympic projects, the "unknown" defence expenditure, and many others).
After all, "creative accounting" and the 270 hidden accounts thoroughly conceal the real fiscal situation of the country.
As for the state budget, no effort has been made to control primary expenditure, which is growing rapidly due to the waste of public money.
Thus, at a time when tax competition between countries was intensifying, the PASOK government, in order to meet the Maastricht criteria, limited itself to a purely revenue-raising policy.
In the last ten years Greece has been the EU champion in increasing tax burdens.
The tax burden increased by 8 percentage points of GDP.
But the rapid increase in the tax burden on the economy damages competitiveness and discourages investment.
This means low growth and an inability to increase employment opportunities and reduce unemployment.
The New Democracy as a Government will take a full inventory of the state of the country's public finances and inform the People of the real picture.
Despite the increase in GERD, critical sectors of the economy are shrinking or stagnating.
There are indications of "creative" accounting in the National Accounts as well, resulting in an overestimation of the rate of growth of GDP.
Private investment in critical sectors of the economy is moving very slowly, foreign direct investment is practically zero and many companies are leaving the country.
The achievement of the growth rate of GDP, whatever it may be, is not due to the increase in the country's production and productive potential in the basic sectors of the economy (agriculture, industry-manufacturing, tourism, etc.), but mainly to the increased expenditure of resources by the EU, the over-indebtedness of households and, above all, the execution of the Olympic projects.
But these do not expand the productive base and do not create the conditions for increased production in the future.
There is therefore a clear risk of stagnation in the economy after 2004 if effective growth measures are not taken in time.
The results of the stagnation or even contraction of the real economy, mainly in the production of material goods, are clearly visible in the reduction of exports and the expansion of imports.
Greece imports 3 times more products than it exports.
On the other hand, the underground economy and the parasitic economy are growing every day.
The great weakness of the economy is the State itself.
A bureaucratic, inefficient, centralized, wasteful, corrupt state.
A huge state, with an antiquated structure, organization and operation, whose tentacles extend everywhere in the economy, which it sucks dry.
The state today has spread to activities that it does not own and which it performs poorly and at high cost.
On the other hand, the social services it provides (education, health, public security, social security and welfare, public utilities) are quantitatively and qualitatively inadequate and cost too much to the taxpayer or user.
Instead of the state being a supporter of the private economy and entrepreneurship, it has become a manipulator and oppressor.
The huge tax burdens it imposes deprive the necessary resources needed for investment and growth.
However, the main obstacles to entrepreneurship and investment are bureaucracy, unnecessary regulatory rules, red tape, opacity, complexity and, above all, widespread corruption.
With such a state and with such a public administration, the Greek economy will always remain in a tail position.
The governments of the PASOK from 1994 to the present day have managed Community resources of tens of billions of Euros, which would have been sufficient to lift the economy and lead it to real convergence.
But these resources have been spent on projects and activities with low development impact or wasted on shoddy and unfinished projects.
The overall development result for our country, to date, from the expenditure of funds from the E.U., has been negligible, compared to other European countries that started with the same conditions.
Greece is last, followed by Ireland, which has outperformed several other European countries in terms of growth.
Unfortunately, our country has missed the great opportunities for growth that were given to it.
Even today, the absorption of the third CSF is still very slow.
In fact, the poorest regions have almost zero absorption.
The projects of the Information Society programme are announced and reannounced, but not implemented.
The problems are similar across the whole range of public works.
Almost all public works cost two and three times more than their budget, are subject to huge delays, and have poor workmanship bordering on dangerous.
After the 1993 elections, the government of the PASOK, instead of proceeding with the strict implementation of the legislation enacted by the government of the New Republic to rescue the insurance system (Laws 1902/1990 and 2084/1992), chose the irresponsible tactic of inaction and postponing the problems to the future.
And not only that.
It proceeded to introduce measures to deregulate the system, thus further aggravating the situation.
If the governments of the PASOK had faithfully implemented the laws of the ND (such as tripartite financing) and proceeded with administrative and organisational modernisation, and if they had achieved satisfactory results in the growth rates of the economy, in the fight against unemployment and in the fight against tax evasion, the problem that is today considered a major one would in fact be a minor one.
The social security system is part of a wider economic and social system, which suffers in many of its components.
No law is sufficient to solve the insurance system unless the factors that affect it and upset its balance are addressed, such as: demographics, the rate of economic growth, the unemployment rate, the extent of the underground economy, the financial situation of health funds, the organisation of the funds and the use of their assets.
In all of the above, however, the performance of the PASOK is judged to be from poor to disappointing.
So the problem over time swells and undermines the foundations of society.
Today it is estimated that there are about one million uninsured Greeks and economic migrants together.
The black labour market is booming and apart from the loss of social security contributions, it also distorts the functioning of free competition.
In recent years, the state has proved to be inconsistent in its obligations under the tripartite financing.
The state owes the Insurance Funds, the Funds owe the Hospitals, the Hospitals owe the suppliers and the suppliers owe the banks - and the vicious circle is perpetuated.
Our vision for Greece in the 21st century is summarised in the triptych:
Development
- employment -
social cohesion.
Experience shows that only a strong economy can sustainably support social cohesion and distribute the social dividend from growth fairly and universally.
Moreover, taking advantage of the opportunities offered by participation in ONE requires greater opening of the economy and deeper integration into the euro area.
This opening presupposes new concepts and methods of exercising state activity.
In order for Greece to be able to exploit the advantages and opportunities of the single market and the common currency, it must improve its competitive position in all sectors in a steady and rapid manner.
This alone will accelerate real convergence with other European countries.
The main ambition of our Programme is to achieve real economic and social convergence in the shortest possible time.
Real convergence means convergence in all sectors and at all levels of economic and social life.
Real convergence is reflected in a multitude of indicators, which together reflect living standards, the quality and sustainability of growth, the degree of social cohesion and progress, the country's participation in the global economy, etc.
Our ambition is a strong and growing economy, as this is the only way to strengthen social cohesion.
A robust economy also means a strong Greece with a respectable international presence.
Our goal is to achieve a high growth rate of more than 5%.
To achieve this, we will rely on the creativity of the Greek people.
But it is not enough to mobilise the national potential.
We need to attract, with the right business environment, foreign investment.
Our pursuit of this goal requires an appropriate adjustment of economic policy.
It requires specific objectives, both quantitative and qualitative, binding priorities and, above all, a broad programme of macroeconomic and structural interventions with clear timetables.
In order to close the gap between us and the other partners in the EU, we need to take action.
The task is a difficult one, but the government of the New Democracy will accomplish it, with the certainty given by its realistic economic programme and its ability to shape development conditions on the basis of its economic and social ideology.
What are our main objectives:
- Rapid economic growth with price stability.
Growth means an increase in real per capita income, an improvement in the distribution of national income among the factors of production, among individuals and among the regions of the country.
- The increase of employment and the reduction of unemployment at a rapid pace, so that at the end of the four years it will have fallen by 2.5-3 percentage points, i.e. below the EU average, and the increase of employment from 56.7% of the total population to over 60%, so that a larger part of the population will actively participate in the productive process.
- The increase in employment and the reduction in unemployment will come mainly from the rapid growth of the real economy.
The new jobs will be created in the productive sectors, in contrast to what the present Government is doing, i.e., temporary pseudo-employment and semi-employment in the public sector, in the public utilities and in subsidised, unsustainable jobs, which are lost as soon as the subsidy is stopped
- The convergence within 8-10 years of wages and pensions towards the EU average.
The specific objective is:
a) The increase of the EKAΣ from 140 euros today to 230 euros at the end of 2008 and
b) The increase of the welfare pension of the late pensioner from 200 euros today to 330 euros at the end of 2008;
- The provision to all citizens of high quality social services and public utilities (health, education, social care and insurance, public safety, infrastructure, etc.).
To achieve the objective of convergence with the other EU countries, it is not enough just to raise per capita income to the levels of the other EU countries.
A huge qualitative and quantitative leap is needed in critical areas of social life, especially in education, health and social security, in order for our country to catch up with other EU countries in terms of the level of prosperity.
- Protecting the environment, natural resources and our national heritage and ensuring sustainable development for the benefit of future generations.
With the national spatial plan that we will implement, we will achieve the distribution of human and productive activities in the area in a way that is compatible with the protection of the environment.
As far as polluting production activities are concerned, we adopt the fair principle: "the polluter pays the cost of environmental protection and clean-up".
Achieving the maximum possible economic and social development requires:
a. The substantial strengthening of the competitiveness of the economy.
b. Improving the attractiveness of the country and its individual regions to investment and business initiatives from within and outside the country.
c. Strengthening the extroversion of the economy.
These three intermediate objectives are so important and so necessary that without their achievement we can have neither sustainable economic growth,
nor a steady reduction in unemployment,
nor a substantial improvement in the standard of living of the population,
nor, finally, the possibility of implementing an effective social policy.
No significant economic and social progress can be achieved without improving the competitiveness of the economy
and without making significant investments in the productive sectors of the economy
, especially those that are strongly export-oriented.
The central problem of the economy is its low competitiveness.
The result of the lack of competitiveness is the continuous widening of the trade and current account deficits, as exports fall, imports increase and tourist foreign exchange shrinks.
Businesses are closing down every day due to their inability to cope with international competition and others are moving their production activity to low labour cost countries.
Imported products dominate the domestic market, even in items in which our country is supposed to specialise.
The de-industrialisation of the country continues unabated.
The closure of many industrial units that were unable to cope with competition is well known.
Jobs are created, without creating new ones.
Unemployment remains high.
But even in Mediterranean agricultural products, in which Greece can specialise internationally, we are successfully competing even in the domestic market with imports from other Mediterranean countries.
Finally, Greece is also losing ground in tourism.
The large competitiveness deficit that characterises the country is a dynamite on the foundations of the economy.
If competitiveness is not significantly improved, many more jobs will be lost and no worker will feel secure, to an even greater extent than is already the case today.
Consequently, our policy for a substantial improvement in competitiveness aims directly at taking measures to reduce production costs (which will mainly come from improving productivity), to improve quality and to create the necessary infrastructure and institutions to support enterprises in their efforts to improve competitiveness.
What is changing in policies to improve competitiveness
- Effective use of the 3rd Community Support Framework, as this framework constitutes the country's biggest growth opportunity, which must not be lost.
- Strengthening the Public Investment Programme at the expense of consumer spending.
- Parallel private financing of infrastructure projects and services to accelerate economic growth, save resources for other government actions and modernise the country's infrastructure.
- Create the necessary specialised infrastructure and ensure that businesses can benefit from external savings to reduce costs.
- Liberalise markets and rapidly promote structural changes and privatisation.
- Ensure competition in the markets for products, raw materials, intermediate goods, network services (electricity, telecommunications, internet, etc.) and money, to ensure cheaper inputs for enterprises.
- Reduce tax rates on business taxation.
- Provide incentives for enterprises to invest in new technologies, to acquire the necessary know-how and to obtain ISO certification for their products and services. -
Strengthen research by the private sector and encourage cooperation between enterprises and government research institutions and AEIs;
- Upgrade in-house training programmes for the workforce in new technologies and new skills.
- Better linking of education (secondary, technical-vocational, tertiary, post-graduate) with the labour market.
- Intensify retraining and lifelong learning programmes, with priority given to new technologies and labour market demand.
- Reform of development incentives.
- Drastically shorten the time required for the licensing of new businesses, by cutting red tape.
- Increase spending on education to 5% of GDP and substantially improve the education system.
In particular, on the very important issue of quality, as a component of competitiveness, we foresee intensified efforts for quality improvement everywhere:
In industry, crafts, agriculture, tourism, trade, transport, other services, the public sector, education, health, etc.
Improving quality is a key policy choice, not only because it is a factor in enhancing competitiveness, but also because it is a prerequisite for improving the quality of our lives in general.
The next 4 years will be dedicated to quality and the battle to achieve it will be successfully fought.
A country that is not attractive to worthwhile business initiatives and investment is doomed not only to stagnation but also to regression.
Attracting foreign direct investment, and indeed in cutting-edge technological sectors, is a prerequisite for achieving the desired high growth rates and offering more employment opportunities to reduce unemployment.
Without new business initiatives and investment, unemployment will not be reduced.
Foreign investment brings to the country new production technologies, know-how and, above all, access to international trade networks for exports.
Therefore, without significant investment, primarily in the sectors of production of goods and services exposed to international competition, there can be no progress for the Greek economy.
The main objective of our Programme is to make the country attractive to investment and new business initiatives by domestic and foreign companies.
Our overriding objective is to make Greece one of the first choices for investment in sectors where it has comparative advantages (e.g. agriculture, tourism, processed food, financial services, etc.).
We are focusing our efforts on achieving this goal.
The measures to improve competitiveness mentioned above will make a substantial contribution to improving the investment climate.
But they are not enough.
Much more needs to be done to reverse the negative image of our country in international business circles.
Our aim is to gradually increase investment so that by the end of four years it will have increased by 5% of GDP.
To strengthen the investment climate and encourage entrepreneurship, our Programme provides for the following:
What is changing in policies to encourage entrepreneurship
- Removal of unnecessary regulations on the establishment of companies, licensing for investment and operation of businesses.
Drastic reduction of the time and costs necessary for the establishment of Sole Proprietorships, Limited Liability Companies and Private Limited Companies (LLCs, E.U.);
- Combating bureaucracy in business relations with the public sector and simplification of those regulations that are considered absolutely necessary, with the full use of new technology and in line with our programme for Public Administration.
- Tackling corruption related, directly or indirectly, to the licensing of businesses, to the inclusion of businesses in the incentives provided for by law or in EU-funded programmes, to the disbursement of subsidies to which they are entitled, to taxation, etc.
- Strengthen the services for receiving investment proposals with appropriate staff.
The investor reception services will be the only ones responsible for processing each investment proposal and obtaining the necessary permits and approvals for the investment.
- A rapid response from each of the services responsible for receiving investment proposals to requests from investors.
Provide for disciplinary sanctions to responsible officials who delay.
- Rationalisation of development incentives.
- In case of rejection of an investment proposal by the relevant department, provide for the possibility of a review by a higher department or a special committee.
- Maintain a stable competitive tax system and business operating framework so that investors are aware from the outset of the terms and rules governing the investment.
- Strong approval of the National Urban Plan so that investors know where they can invest and under what conditions. -
Regulating the issues relating to the effective protection of archaeological sites,
forest areas and the environment, so that the protection provided is effective where it is actually needed and does not create unjustified obstacles to business activity.
- Provide the municipalities and local authorities with the possibility of implementing programmes to attract productive investment in their area (creation of special infrastructure, favourable regulations and services for investors, training programmes, etc.).
The share of foreign trade in GDP is the lowest among the EU countries and shows the inability of the Greek economy to compete in foreign markets.
It is an economy "locked in its shell", unable or afraid of international competition.
But it is the ability to prevail in the international arena that confirms the dynamism and robustness of an economy.
On the contrary, the survival of enterprises with the help of state procurement, with opaque procedures and the use of unfair means of excluding competition, does not allow the economy to escape from its infancy and develop in the context of international competition.
Strengthening competitiveness and attracting direct investment are prerequisites for enhancing the economy's extroversion.
But they are not enough.
A coherent export promotion policy is needed, compatible with the restrictions set by the EU and the World Trade Organisation.
To this end, the following are foreseen:
What is changing in policies to promote exports:
- Concentrating our efforts on the productive sectors where we have a comparative advantage (e.g. tourism, shipping, agricultural products, financial services, food industry, insurance, health services, etc.).
Exploiting our comparative advantage and quality are the spearheads of our country's international specialisation.
- Strengthening of the OPE and creation of permanent promotion of Greek products, Greek tourism and culture in major foreign markets.
- Staffing the consular authorities with the appropriate personnel and providing the necessary means for the promotion of Greek products, the country's business and investment opportunities and for the exploration of cooperation opportunities in foreign markets. -
Strengthening the organisation in the Chambers of Commerce, Industry, Industry and Trade of a special service to support enterprises in their export efforts (information, procedures, etc.);
- Encouraging enterprises to use new technologies
and electronic commerce for export.
- Cooperation with expatriates to set up importing businesses for Greek products in their new homelands.
- Implementation of a special programme in Thessaloniki and in Northern Greece in general, in order to take advantage of its favourable geographical location for exports and economic cooperation with the Balkan countries and Turkey.
In particular, it is foreseen that: Establishment of a branch of the OPE in Thessaloniki, strong incentives for the creation of Transit Trade Centres in Northern Greece, more effective use of the Thessaloniki International Fair Organisation, improvement of transport and cross-border connections with neighbouring countries.
Education has as its overriding purpose the formation of free, responsible and democratic citizens.
Citizens who are creative, sociable and responsible, but also intellectually, emotionally and aesthetically cultured.
Education is the foundation and promotion of humanistic culture, the spirit of enquiry, knowledge and skills.
In this way, social integration is achieved and the citizen's contribution to the cultural, social and economic progress of the country is strengthened, within the framework of a free and peaceful, but highly competitive world.
Education is an inalienable right of the citizen and its provision is a duty of the State.
Only high quality education provided by the state ensures equality of start for all young people, regardless of their economic situation.
Because education without quality, such as that provided today, is undemocratic and mainly affects the economically weakest.
A nation's Education is the general product of the ideals, beliefs and values that govern its life.
Education must safeguard the main elements that make up our national identity: language, history and the Greek Orthodox tradition, both in the context of the United Europe and in the rest of the world where Greeks live and create.
Language is the foundation for our intellectual development and the safeguarding of our cultural identity and the main means of expression, thought and communication.
The national dimension of Education requires a policy without partisan agendas, with clarity and stability of goals and objectives, freedom of choice and sufficiency of resources, people and facilities, in an environment of creative competition.
Educational policy choices must be characterised by consistency and continuity, not inspired by party unilateralism and must be widely accepted.
That is why, during the change of parties in power, all the positive achievements of the previous government policy must be preserved and any changes must be made responsibly and without unnecessary surprises and experimentation.
The basic aim of educational policy is to contribute to the democratisation of citizenship.
This objective should embrace every form of educational activity, making the individual an active and responsible citizen who respects the rights of others.
The success of this objective is a key factor for social cohesion, mutual understanding, intercultural and inter-religious dialogue and solidarity, and contributes to the defence and development of a democratic society.
The educational process should be characterised, above all, by effort, fair play and meritocracy.
That is why the State has a duty to inspire all the actors of Education - teachers, students, parents, social and productive actors - to participate in the educational process with a deep sense of responsibility.
At the same time, evaluation must run through the whole education system.
All stakeholders and all members of the educational community must be evaluated, so that evaluation can serve as the necessary feedback mechanism for improving the educational system.
The structure of the education system should provide outlets for all and the educational process should be considered a "lifelong" function.
Lifelong learning is a fundamental principle of education and training systems and can only be achieved by providing a solid theoretical basis, which also facilitates the necessary and continuous adaptation.
This is why premature over-qualification should be avoided.
Compulsory education, in particular, is a basic core of lifelong learning.
In the era of globalisation and in a knowledge and information society, the use of modern technologies is absolutely essential for a modern and effective education system.
New technologies are radically changing the landscape of education: the way of teaching and learning, the way of studying, but also the way of research and evaluation.
The permanent link between education and the production process and the labour market must be at the heart of curriculum design.
The above principles run through the comprehensive proposal for Education presented by the New Democracy, in the conviction that only a comprehensive view of the problems of our educational system, based on specific axes, can ensure continuity and stability in the rules governing its operation.
This preeminent national issue must be addressed without further postponement, with deep cuts, but also with the prudence and consensus that such large and complex issues require.
We believe that this is the only way to overcome many problems that plague Greek society.
The changes that we are proposing essentially address and provide solutions to problems that have been discussed for years, without daring to tackle them radically and courageously.
All our proposals for Education are based on a common vision: the formation of the Greek citizen who will live in a United European Community, the Greek citizen in a Europe without borders.
A citizen who must be characterised by a sense of responsibility, a citizen with a free and integrated personality, a citizen who thinks democratically and critically, a citizen who is dynamic, cultured, cooperative and at the same time capable of competing on equal terms with citizens of other Community countries.
The New Democracy, always a pioneer, as it was during the three years 1991-93, on education issues, will promote with its education programme the strategic goal set by the European Union to become by 2010 "the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world,
capable of sustainable economic growth with more and better jobs
and greater social cohesion".
In this effort, the following six (6) main axes have been set:
- New basic knowledge for all.
- More investment in human resources.
- More investment in human capital.
- Innovation and innovation in education and training.
- Review of guidance and counselling.
- Education closer to home.
The reforms we propose seek to upgrade the education provided, expand opportunities for the vocational rehabilitation of young people and adopt incentives to improve educational services.
They cover the entire education system at its most crucial points and are closely interlinked.
That is, they complement each other and, above all, they are organically integrated into a single and complete qualitative reform programme.
They are not fragmentary or conflicting, as is usually the case with proposals and measures that have not been studied in their entirety.
Finally, our proposals are elaborated and specific and, above all, directly applicable, far from vague and generalities.
Education always reflects the cohesion or, on the contrary, the disintegration of a society.
In our country, admittedly, we have been led into a crisis of values that is at its peak in education.
The governing of the country by the PASOK, for almost twenty years, led Greek education to a deep and multifaceted crisis, resulting in its degradation.
This is a serious blow to the social fabric and undermines the country's present and future.
In the education system, the amateurism and opportunism of educational policy is obvious.
A characteristic manifestation of this phenomenon is the successive and mutually contradictory "reforms" and "anti-reforms" with huge negative effects on our youth.
The most characteristic is the one of 1997-98, which almost forgot - during the relevant legislative regulation - that there is also vocational education (!), a fact that "got in the way" by creating the TEE as an offshoot of education, since they were characterized by official ministerial lips as schools for second-class students.
At the same time, the high school has ceased to have an autonomous institutional and educational role, since there is a fragmentation of cognitive subjects and a fragmentation of educational fields.
Moreover, it has turned into an examination minefield, which increases the anxiety of students and parents and encourages over-education.
The tutoring of schools has a catalytic effect on the economic, social and educational level of our people and works to the detriment of small schools, especially in deprived areas.
Some features of the present situation that are injuring education are:-
The fact that the whole educational process lacks rivalry and motivation for greater effort on the part of teachers, while critical knowledge and the ability to synthesise are not cultivated.
- The opaque criteria and the partisan choices of education officials.
Partisan choices that were seen in all their glory during the recent unqualified selections of executives, which caused the indignation of the educational world, regardless of party affiliation.
On the contrary, we as a government in 1991-1993 applied a meritocratic - and this was recognised by the educational community itself - system of selection of educational executives.
With this system, if it had not been subsequently dismantled by the government of the PASOK, the deadlocks caused mainly by the institution of the tenure of education officials would have been removed.
This fact has a catalytic effect on the functioning of schools, but also does not allow any evaluation system to be implemented.
Because party-selected education officials can only be objective evaluators;
- The evaluation of all education stakeholders, which is one of the most basic parameters in any educational system, is almost completely absent from the educational process.
Meritocracy, also, at the level of procedures (where it exists) is severely affected by partisanship and corporatism.
- The institution of tenure in the administration and supervision of schools, which in practice nullifies any system of evaluation.
- The lack of teacher training.
It is inconceivable that there is no compulsory and continuous training of teachers and even more so compulsory induction training for newly appointed teachers, many of whom are appointed after many years, after they have graduated from university.
In particular, many teachers who are not pedagogical graduates are appointed to education without any pedagogical training!
- Primary and secondary school textbooks are outdated, since most of them have been in use for more than twenty years.
- The national examinations in the B' grade of high school and the excessive number of subjects tested in the B' and C' grades of high school remain.
This creates stress for students and parents and erodes family finances due to the sharp increase in under-education.
School and para-education do not give a child the free time he or she needs.
Very importantly, it is also the case that para-education and substandard schools affect the children of low-income families, where the education system does not guarantee the constitutionally enshrined principle of equality.
- The situation of the schools attended by children with special educational needs is far from what one would expect from a State that is sensitive to these children.
- Institutional chaos is increasing.
One after the other NPIs are created, such as for educational research and training, which are institutionally covered by the responsibilities of the Pedagogical Institute.
- The effectiveness of the Vocational Education and Training System has been nullified in practice.
The T.E.E. with their fragmentation and degradation do not fulfil their objectives as vocational education schools.
The I.E.K. have lost their objectives, since they do not follow the real needs of the labour market and have degenerated due to the unreliable system of certification of their studies.
- Nothing significant has been done to improve the standard of T.E.I.'s, except renaming them on paper.
- The Greek University is lagging and suffering and is moving away from the European Academic reality.
The result is what counts and characterizes the magnitude of the failure of the government's education policy.
In most educational indicators we are the tail end of Europe:
- Public spending on education amounts to only 3.5% of GDP and is far below all EU countries (where the M.O. is 5.46%), even compared to those countries that are in the process of accession.
Expenditure on education in Greece is almost the same as in Bulgaria and Romania, countries much poorer than Greece.
In addition, under PASOK governments, there is, on the one hand, absorption of Community funds for education by smaller ones and, on the other hand, waste of public money on unfortunate or amateurish educational applications (see, for example, additional teaching aid in high schools).
- The government, while doubling the number of admissions to A.E.I. and T.E.I., significantly reduced the expenditure per student!
The Ministry of Education spends only 40% of the EU average per student, while Spain, the second last, 69% and Sweden, the first, 167%.
This policy undermines every effort to make Greek universities competitive in the Single European Knowledge Area.
- The percentage that Greece commits for research and development expenditure is only 1/3 of the corresponding average percentage of the EU countries!
- Individuals spend more than the state spends in order to have a substantial right to education.
Eight out of ten high school students take tutoring.
- The market for foreign language education in Greece is worth Tt 880 million (300 billion USD) per year.
Nobody thinks that they can learn foreign languages in public school. -
Greek students studying abroad (63,000) in proportion to the population hold the world record and the annual private expenditure reaches 300 billion (T 880 million);
- One of the most reliable international indicators of mathematical performance, the PISA of the OSCE, ranks Greek students at the bottom of the league tables in mathematical ability and language processing.
- According to a SEB survey of large Greek companies, there are huge training gaps in a large number of specialisations related to the new production process.
Most of them said that they have difficulty finding staff at all levels of education who can meet the job needs for "cutting-edge specialities".
These and more are the elements that make up the reality.
Unfortunately, however, instead of addressing the problems, the government is trying to obscure the truth with communication tricks and, thus, exacerbates the situation even more.
The New Democracy programme responds to all these issues with a comprehensive and well thought-out and above all qualitative educational reform, proposing to the Greek people a modern and competitive Education.
Compulsory education is the basis of the whole education system within the broader field of "lifelong education", which is increasingly promoted at international level.
Rapid technological developments are in fact rendering early specialised knowledge useless.
They require a breadth of basic knowledge and ways of thinking based on a solid infrastructure to be effectively adaptable to new developments.
We believe that we need to strengthen the basic knowledge of all students.
We extend and integrate it into compulsory education and high school, in order to achieve a wider range of knowledge for all students and broaden their scope of thinking.
Moreover, this way the crucial choice of studies and profession is not made at the third grade but at an age and with knowledge that ensures more maturity for choices.
Moreover, the number of pupils who finish compulsory education today and do not continue their studies at secondary school or at TEE or discontinue their studies at secondary school is in the range of 6-7%.
Most of them belong to population groups with special problems (gypsy children, foreigners, etc.).
It is imperative to "keep" these children at this sensitive age with special programmes and interventions, in school, which is a place of learning and a place of education.
After all, with the types of high school we are creating, every student can find a pathway according to his or her aptitudes and potential.
The high school should be designed as a school of general and humanistic education that prepares with the knowledge it provides both for the continuation of studies in higher education and for the smooth and successful integration of graduates in the workplace.
So we need a modern school that eliminates social inequalities and prepares the student to integrate smoothly into society and the productive process.
A school that cultivates judgement without dogmatism and that develops personality without artificial egalitarianism.
A school that helps the child to develop his or her aptitudes and individual abilities, but, above all, teaches the student "how to learn".
What we need, after all, is a better school, but one that is more demanding for students and teachers, one that cultivates critical thinking and the student's ability to synthesise.
It is also necessary to move away from the "statute" of the single Lyceum, but also to upgrade vocational education at the high school level by creating the Vocational Lyceum and abolishing the TEs, which provide an admittedly inferior education.
This will be achieved by the structural reform of the high school, so that it will primarily serve its purpose as a school of general education and equal opportunities, but also so that each type of knowledge will find its place in the curriculum of some type of high school.
Because it is characteristic of democratic education that the different types of education are offered to all citizens, to citizens who have the right to choose.
Significant improvements are also needed in the higher education admissions system.
To date, many systems have been tested with advantages and disadvantages.
But the worst thing was that the next one actually cancelled the previous one.
We are not coming to overturn the system, but to change those parts of it that will relieve the high school, the students and the parents from the current problems.
Our goal is for high school seniors to be ready for career choices and specialized knowledge that will lead them to the science and profession they are interested in.
So we are clearly talking about reforming the qualitative elements of education.
- We are extending compulsory education to 12 years, i.e. pupils must attend compulsory education not only in primary and secondary school but also in high school.
- A single curriculum in 11 years of schooling for students.
From the first grade of primary school up to the second grade of secondary school, all students follow a common class curriculum, with the exception of students who will choose the vocational direction and whose special course starts from the second grade of secondary school.
Students in high school, in addition to general education, will be prepared either for continuing studies in higher education or for training in the arts and professions.
For this reason: -
We establish two main types of high school:
a) the General Lyceum
b) the Vocational Lyceum*.
T.E.E. are abolished and replaced by vocational lyceums.
Thus, vocational education is upgraded to high school level.
Moreover, the TEEs today provide an admittedly substandard education.
- In the third grade of the General High School there are fields of cognitive directions that the student can choose as follows:
- Theoretical Studies,
- Physical and Technological Studies,
- Economic and Social Studies.
- The first two grades of the General Lyceum have a common curriculum, the subjects are examined in-school, but the subjects of the written promotional examinations will be taken from a central bank of subjects.
In the Vocational Lyceum the special course programme starts from class B.
- We are redesigning the Music and Theatre Studies, Sports Skills and Ecclesiastical Education lyceums, while a few Classical Studies lyceums will also be opened.
Our aim is for students to have a pathway to higher education, but also to be able to cultivate aptitudes and skills.
In the fanaticism of the implementation of the so-called "unified Lyceum", apart from the TELs, the Music, Sports and Ecclesiastical Lyceums were sacrificed, since their students are obliged to attend a programme that reaches, for example in the music schools, 45 (!) hours per week.
These learning conditions, apart from being uneducational and exhausting, also prevent most students with special gifts, e.g. in music, from attending music high schools, with the result that they decline.
- The Panhellenic examinations in the second cycle of secondary school are abolished and become purely inter-school examinations.
- Panhellenic examinations are held only in the third grade of high school in 6 subjects (out of the 9 currently examined), in order for students to be admitted to higher education.
The subjects are selected by a Central Examinations Committee and the papers are marked in special marking centres by specially trained secondary school teachers.
Knowledge, critical and creative thinking, analytical and synthetic skills are assessed.
- In addition to the six (6) courses examined in the national examinations, students in the third grade of high school are required to take four (4) courses, one of which is optional.
These four subjects are examined in-school.
- The method and system of determining the credits for the admission of candidates to higher education is maintained.
- During the first implementation of the new system of admission to higher education, transitional measures will be in place for the retention of graduates from previous years.
- Special incentives are foreseen for teachers serving in secondary schools, in particular for those teaching in lower secondary schools.
- The Greek education system is being modernised.
- High school is made compulsory for all pupils (thus reducing the risks for children due to early school leaving).
- Pupils and parents are freed from the suffocating grip of the Panhellenic examinations of the B' lykeio, while the lykeio regains its educational mission and dynamic as a school of general education. -
The number of examinations in the national examinations is reduced from 9 to 6 and the total number of courses taught in the third grade from 15 to 10.
The many courses not only distract interest and limit basic knowledge, but also disturb the students, filling them with anxiety, especially in a class preparing for admission to the A.E.I.
At the same time, the reform of the content and mode of examination of the general examinations of the third secondary school will minimise the influence of known negative factors (rote learning, poor grades, luck, etc.)
- Vocational education and training is upgraded and equality of opportunity and equivalence of studies at secondary level is ensured.
- Everyone is given a pathway to either the sciences or the professions, and the crucial choice of studies and profession is not made impulsively, and often untimely, at the end of the third year of secondary school, but on completion of secondary school education, which ensures that choices are made wisely and maturely.
- This results in a better preparation of candidates for academic studies by making use of the teaching time of the third grade, and better links between secondary and higher education.
- By reducing the number of lessons and at the same time with new curricula and modern textbooks, the almost non-existent free time of the student who is running to catch up with the demands of school and para-education from the first grade onwards is increased.
- Finally, parapideia, which, especially with the present system of admission to higher education, is combating and limiting as far as possible, and is eroding the finances of the Greek family.
Kindergarten is a key place for the emotional, intellectual and social development of our children.
That's why:
- We will seek to meet the needs of all infants in kindergarten for at least one year.
- We will improve the full-day kindergarten programme with the aim of upgrading and enriching the content of education and school activities.
- Particular emphasis will be placed on the identification, treatment and education of children with special problems, as well as children with special aptitudes and talents.
- Continuous training of kindergarten teachers.
- Relocation of kindergartens that are housed in shops in blocks of flats with no yard space.
- Equipping the kindergartens with modern equipment, libraries and audiovisual material, with particular emphasis on the aesthetics of the premises.
Primary school is the first and basic level of compulsory education and aims at the all-round, harmonious and balanced development of the pupils' intellectual and psychosomatic powers.
All-day schools could be a modern and responsible response to today's educational and social needs.
Unfortunately, the Ministry of Education, despite its repeated promises, has not proceeded with the expansion of this very important institution (today only 28 full-day primary schools operate).
Instead of the full-day school, it has gone on to create extended-hour sections, which serve a limited number of students and even different classes, so it is very difficult for the teacher to offer substantial work.
Already teachers have aptly described them as "parking" children.
We believe that the schools that currently have extended hours classes offer some social work, but they should be developed into truly all-day schools.
That's why we plan:
- the expansion and qualitative strengthening of the all-day school.
- The operation of extended hours classes with the appropriate infrastructure, equipment and teaching staff until they become full-day schools.
They must operate with a programme that will meet the needs and interests of the students and with a reduced number of students per class, so that their stay is fully utilised in pedagogical terms.
In the context of improving the quality of the education provided, a wide-ranging qualitative internal reform is being carried out, which concerns all parameters of the educational process and more specifically: -
The content of studies and educational resources
- The teacher
- Basic training and further training
- Evaluation in education
- The administration and supervision of education
- The infrastructure
- The functioning of the executive, research and administrative bodies.
- Reform of curricula in primary and secondary education.
It should be stressed here that in an organised system of education, the aims, objectives, educational goods and the writing of textbooks are formulated through the curricula.
The new programmes will take into account:
the unity of compulsory education and, therefore, the avoidance of overlaps and unnecessary repetition that currently plague teachers and students.
- The extent of the curriculum must be in full harmony with the total teaching hours planned per subject, so as to ensure that the whole subject is taught.
- The implementation of common educational curricula in certain subjects, in the context of the convergence of the education systems of the United Europe.
- Systematic organisation and strengthening of school activities (environmental education, theatre education, school and museum, health education, etc.), which we established in 1992.
In this way, we will achieve the widest possible cultural and aesthetic cultivation of our pupils.
Our goal is a new type of school, where through enjoyable forms of expression, initiative, creative imagination, the development of a spirit of cooperation, self-discipline and self-esteem will be developed.
- Writing textbooks, at least two for each subject (multiple textbooks), in order to abolish the monopoly of one book which is suffocating the educational process.
The teacher will choose at his/her discretion a textbook from a list of approved textbooks.
This will allow the development of initiatives by both the teacher and the pupil with the main aim of developing the pupil's judgement and, above all, to learn "how to learn".
- Programmes and textbooks will be evaluated and revised periodically to respond to developments and needs.
This will put an end to the unacceptable phenomenon that we see today, namely that most primary and secondary school textbooks are outdated, having completed at least twenty years of teaching.
- Restructure the distribution system for textbooks so that they reach pupils in good time.
In this way, the unacceptable phenomenon that is observed today, i.e. many books reaching the hands of students and teachers in October, sometimes even in December, will be addressed!
- Reduction of the maximum number of students per section.
This will substantially help the pedagogical and educational process in schools, creating the conditions for a closer cooperation between the student and the teacher and better assimilation of the material.
In exuberant classes, such as those that exist in schools today, it is almost impossible to implement methods of active - participatory process. -
Making full use of the new possibilities offered by the application of technology in education (digital materials, etc.);
- Connecting all schools to the Internet.
- Gradual operation of a digital library in all secondary schools.
- Restructuring and upgrading of the institution of model experimental schools.
- Expansion of the institution of all-day primary schools.
- Support for special education schools.
- Reform the system of supplementary teaching.
We implemented this institution in 1993 but then it was left to its own devices and did not meet its objectives.
Therefore, a substantial reform of the system is needed so that pupils with learning difficulties are helped in school and overcome them in time.
Such teaching programmes will be implemented mainly in the first grades of primary school, but also in secondary school.
Particular emphasis will be given to schools where, for social and other reasons, learning problems are acute.
- Measures to minimise the percentage of pupils leaving compulsory school early.
To this end, relevant research will be carried out and educational and social measures will be adopted.
- Organisation of specific activities for the smooth transition of pupils from the sixth grade of primary school to the first grade of secondary school and their adaptation (cognitive, social, emotional) to the latter.
A fundamental factor in raising the level of education is to staff it with prestigious teachers, with a good education and pedagogical training, but also fully aware of their mission.
At the same time, the upgrading of the status and social role of teachers is required with the assistance of the State and the efforts of the teachers themselves.
The State must not only recognise the specificity and importance of the work of teachers, but also show in practice the affection with which it surrounds them.
This recognition should also be manifested in the provision of satisfactory working conditions and better pay.
At the same time, education is a profession, for the successful exercise of which the following is needed:
- full pedagogical and scientific training of the teacher before assuming his/her duties
- introductory and periodic training during his/her service
- continuous evaluation of the educational work and the teacher
- permanent and correct system of administration and supervision of education
One of the most serious issues for the educational system is that graduates of many higher education departments lack basic training and education in the field of education.
This is a serious obstacle to the effective exercise of the teacher's function.
For this reason:
- The Universities in cooperation with the Ministry of Education will develop a six-monthly programme of scientific - teaching and psycho-pedagogical training courses.
The specific nature of the whole programme will be studied in cooperation with the educational community and universities.
- This programme will be followed after the degree and will lead to a certificate.
- This certificate will be compulsory in order to be appointed in education for those who obtain their degree after the introduction of this programme.
The training complements the basic scientific and pedagogical training of the teacher with new knowledge and informs him/her about the current trends and directions of the sciences.
It also informs him about the changes introduced in the country's education system, as well as the changes to the timetables and curricula.
Today, unfortunately, training, which is essential for the educational process, has degenerated.
We had implemented in 1992-1993 a complete and organised system of compulsory and voluntary training, which, if it had been maintained and improved, would not have been required again.
Our training programme was highly appreciated when, unfortunately, the ruling party replaced the statutory compulsory training with optional seminars of a few hours for a few teachers.
That's why:
The current situation requires a radical change in the training system, so that it is functional and effective, ensuring a satisfactory level of initial training, but also the continuous periodic training of all teachers.
- Mandatory induction training will be introduced for newly appointed teachers and periodic training for existing teachers.
- The training programmes that we propose are of appropriate duration and content, in order to meet the needs of teaching and the administration and supervision of schools, without creating problems in the educational process. -
The training system we will apply includes the following forms:
a. compulsory training (introductory, periodic, accelerated)
b. optional training (annual training, self-training, refresher training).
In addition to training programmes, an increased number of educational permits for postgraduate studies (masters, doctorate) will be granted through transparent and merit-based procedures.
More specifically, the training system that we will implement provides for:
a) Introductory training:
it concerns teachers to be appointed and takes place before they take up their duties.
It takes place between February and May.
It is compulsory for teachers who, based on the results of the ASEP competition, are expected to be appointed in the next two years.
It mainly covers the following subjects:
Pedagogical and social role of the school - Methodology of science teaching - Educational evaluation - Teacher and pupil - Administration and organisation of the educational system and the school unit.
The introductory training lasts four months, is organised and implemented by the Regional Training Centres (RTCs) in two ways depending on the teachers to whom it is addressed:
- For those who are not working, the training takes place in the RTCs in the "traditional" way ("face-to-face" training).
- For those who work either in education (substitutes) or elsewhere and cannot travel to the PEK headquarters, there is the possibility of distance training (using telematics etc.) at the Training Support Centres (TSCs).
The CSOs will be organised in a dense network to cover the whole territory.
An hourly allowance is provided to each trainee.
b) Periodic Training
Periodic training:
- concerns appointed teachers and takes place every 6-7 years.
- is carried out either in the PEK ('face-to-face' training) or in the CSEs by means of distance training, so that the teacher can be trained and carry out his/her teaching duties at the same time.
- is carried out outside teaching hours and lasts approximately 100 teaching hours spread over three three-hour periods per week.
To train more teachers there will be two cycles:
the first will run from 15 September to December and the second from 15 January to April.
- covers scientific issues of any subject, teaching, education administration, etc.
Each trainee will be provided with an hourly allowance.
A certificate of attendance will be issued for the introductory and periodic training.
However, any teachers who wish to do so will be able to take part in a certification process, which will be carried out at the PEK and will lead to the award of a corresponding certificate.
c) Accelerated training
Includes:
- short (20 to 40 hours) training seminars.
They take place particularly in the first twenty days of September.
They aim to inform teachers about new curricula, new textbooks or lessons.
- informing education staff on organisational and management issues.
2.2.2.2 Optional training
a) Annual training
- This training is attended by teachers after examinations and for this purpose there are two schools (Athens and Thessaloniki).
- At least 400 primary and secondary school teachers will be trained each year.
These schools will be organized in cooperation with the A.E.I. and will operate under the supervision of the P.I.
- The graduates of these schools, apart from being able to develop into education executives, will staff the PEKs as trainers and will assist school counsellors in training seminars.
b) Self-training
Teachers serving in schools in remote areas will be able to attend special training programmes using special educational software and other media (video tapes, etc.) while participating in exercises, assignments and examinations under the guidance of School Counsellors and special trainers.
Each training qualification will be rewarded in the selection process for training staff.
Evaluation is one of the most important parameters in the educational process.
Everyone and everything in education must be subject to the evaluation function.
And the unfortunate thing is that the only country where this principle is not applied is Greece.
It is unthinkable that what is happening in our educational system today, that is, that only students are evaluated, and not diagnostically but mainly in a declarative way.
But if we want to build an efficient and modern education system, it is necessary not only to set objectives, but also to check whether the outcome meets these objectives.
It is therefore necessary to analyse and evaluate the results of the educational work carried out, to identify the deviations of the result from the objective and to look for the causes, in order to take the necessary corrective measures.
Evaluation, therefore, is a necessary process across the whole spectrum of education and for all those involved in it.
It is carried out at four levels:
- Evaluation of the educational system
- Evaluation of the educational work per school unit
- Evaluation of the teacher
- Evaluation of the pupils
This evaluation concerns the curricula, methods and means of teaching.
This evaluation is designed and carried out by the Pedagogical Institute.
For this purpose:
a) the work of the school unit is planned at the beginning of each school year by the teachers' association in cooperation with the School Counsellors and
b) this work is evaluated by the teachers' association at the end of each school year, in order to identify weaknesses, to improve the planning of the following year and to make relevant proposals to the competent bodies.
The evaluation of the individual contribution is a natural function in any society.
No citizen of a country can be exempted from this self-evident rule, much less the officials of Education, to whom the State has entrusted the most delicate and responsible task, the task of educating its citizens.
It is logical that this work should be subject to continuous evaluation and improvement in order to achieve the best possible results in an area that directly affects the future of the country.
There are two ways of evaluating teachers internationally:
a) by education officials who are meritocratically selected and accepted by teachers and b) by external evaluators.
The second way, however, cannot be applied and be effective in our country, because it does not fit the characteristics of our educational system.
That is why the attempt to impose such an evaluation in the past by the ruling party was in practice cancelled by the educational community.
We as a government designed and institutionalised the 1993 system of teacher evaluation and we had issued the implementing Decree, which the government of the PASOK suspended - and even telegraphed - to abolish it, leaving education without evaluation for two decades.
Recently, the ruling party has established an evaluation framework which, however, provides for procedures that once again refer the evaluation to the courts.
A characteristic example is the example where in the procedure foreseen for the selection of a position of an education official, the evaluator and the person being evaluated will be co-candidates!
That is why this evaluation remains on paper until today, since it is unthinkable to implement an evaluation system with alternating roles of the person being evaluated and the evaluator, as is necessarily the case when there is the institution of tenure for education officials.
According to the teacher evaluation system that we will implement:
- The evaluation of the teacher's work is a process that primarily aims to strengthen the teacher's self-awareness of his/her scientific constitution, pedagogical training and teaching aptitude.
It is not linked to his/her salary progression nor to his/her placement in a school unit.
- The results of the evaluation will be one of the criteria for the merit-based selection of education staff.
Meritocracy in all activities of society, but especially in education, is what is needed.
- The evaluation of the teacher will be carried out by the School Counsellor and the Headmaster of the school. The evaluators themselves should be primarily the supporters, inspirers and guides of the teacher and at the same time the evaluators of the teacher's work.
- The systematic analysis and study of the data of the evaluation of teachers' work will serve as a feedback mechanism for their training at regional and national level. -
Evaluation is mandatory for all teachers and is carried out every four (4) years, and in order to make this possible we will increase the number of school counsellors.
a) Evaluation of the teacher by the School Counsellor
Evaluation is carried out with a view to improving the teacher, increasing his/her efficiency, encouraging him/her to make more effort.
Therefore, the evaluator's observations will be discussed with the teacher after each evaluation process and the results of the evaluation will be communicated to the teacher.
The School Counsellor evaluates:
- The teacher's scientific training and
- The teacher's pedagogical - teaching ability
In order for the School Counsellor to draw up the Evaluation Report, in addition to other things, he/she also attends at least two classroom lessons on different days, and always in consultation with the teacher.
b) Evaluation of the teacher by the School Director
The School Director is the main coordinator of the school unit's work. He is also the teacher himself and therefore the most appropriate person to evaluate the performance of the teachers in his school.
The School Director evaluates:
- The consistency of service, responsibility and the development of initiatives by the teacher.
- The cooperation - communication with teachers, students and parents.
c) Evaluation of the work of the School Director A
similar evaluation is also provided for the work of the School Director:
a) By the School Counsellor in his/her field of specialisation.
b) By the Director of the Office or Directorate with regard to the same elements on which the teacher is evaluated in his/her work by the School Director, and in addition with regard to his/her organisational and leadership skills and the implementation of educational legislation.
c) By the Teachers' Association of the School concerned on the climate of cooperation and communication in the Teachers' Association.
d) The work of the Director of the Office or Directorate, the School Counsellor, the Regional Director of Education and the Regional School Counsellor will also be subject to evaluation by their hierarchical superiors.
Secondary Evaluation
All candidates have the right to submit an appeal which is decided at a secondary evaluation.
The assessment concerns the cognitive, emotional, psychological and organisational world of the child.
It is a continuous educational process which develops the student's mechanism of critical knowledge.
And here we want to note that the mechanism of the student's critical knowledge is not developed in the second and third grade of high school by turning the school into an examination centre, as the so-called reform of 1998 (and what is left of it) sought to do, but by training the student in written and organised speech from primary school onwards.
The purpose of assessment should be to push the student towards a correct "self-concept", as well as to provide feedback on teaching and learning.
Therefore, assessment must be primarily diagnostic in nature and this is the direction in which the oral and written examinations in the day's lesson, but mainly the summative examinations, operate.
With the written exams the student: -
learns to compose, to create, to perform,
- gains an overall overview of the material taught,
- monitors his/her progress so that he/she can improve.
The teacher, again, will see the progress of the students and will be able to make improvements.
Thus, we will introduce written summative examinations twice a year from grade E through grade 3 of primary school.
A measure that we had also applied in 1991, since until then the student reached the end of the first grade of high school without having been asked to record his knowledge on a piece of paper, with all the consequences that this entailed.
The above measure proved to be generally accepted by students, parents and teachers.
However, the PASOK abolished it, keeping only the high school exams at the end of the year.
The assessment of students will be carried out in primary and secondary school in two ways:
- By written summative examinations at the halfway point of the school year and in June, starting in the first grade.
The questions will be taken from the material taught in the previous quarter and half of them will be critical questions.
- Examinations will be given periodically and on limited material, so that the student will repeat and assimilate cognitively a limited amount of material corresponding to a relatively short teaching period.
- Through daily teaching practice and performance.
- With questions of a new type and quality (half of which will be critical), we will help the student from primary school onwards to learn how to learn, to express himself well through the practice of writing, and to cultivate his abstraction, synthesis and critical faculties.
- A special examination allowance is being introduced for the additional work required of teachers to implement this measure.
- In secondary school, pupils will be assessed as at present, and there will be no need for intermediate written summative examinations, since pupils will have had sufficient practice in writing during their time at primary and secondary school.
Any system, and even more so the educational one, in order to function properly and efficiently, requires an administrative organisation structured in such a way as to ensure the guidance and encouragement of its main actors, the necessary corrective intervention for continuous improvement and the coordination of the educational work in general.
The lack of efficiency in the system of administration and supervision of education was dealt with institutionally, with objective criteria and procedures for the selection of executives in the three years 1991-1993, which were then abolished by the ruling party.
A party that insists on the partisanship of education.
The selection of education officials with rank and their development must be based on meritocratic criteria, and this possibility does not exist today, since, for twenty years, there has been no evaluation of teachers.
And we will not discover the gunpowder.
The rules and principles of teacher evaluation are known worldwide and apply everywhere, except in Greece.
The reasons that prevent the management system from being effective and the school from being a living and efficient organisation are, admittedly, the following:
- The institution of the tenure of education officials which leads to a constant change of roles.
This leads to a feeling of insecurity and avoidance of responsibility for the exercise of management.
- The cancellation of any internal evaluation system, which necessarily entails the rotation of persons in the posts of education officials, precisely because of the institution of tenure.
- the lack of effective powers at certain levels of the administration.
- the lack of a merit-based selection of staff, due to the vagueness of the selection criteria, which leaves room for arbitrary decisions.
This has been demonstrated in the recent selections of heads of education and school principals that have challenged the educational community.
- The lack of real incentives to run for headship and school board positions.
The above dysfunctions will be addressed by:
- The introduction of merit-based criteria for the selection of education officials.
- The abolition of tenure and the introduction of tenure for education officials at the prescribed grades (as is the case in most countries of the European Union).
- Provide powers and incentives (salaries, special working hours, etc.) to encourage the most deserving to take up a post as an education officer.
The selection of school principals and school counsellors is of particular importance, because the most competent of them, after being evaluated in their specific work, will become senior executives in the administration and supervision of education.
Tenure is judged once after a probationary period of the teacher, only in the first selection as a school principal or school counselor.
For directors, the opinion of the Teachers' Association will be taken into account to some extent.
Only serious disciplinary misconduct, provided for by law, constitutes grounds for the removal of a staff member from a permanent position.
Objective, transparent and measurable criteria, assessed by specific evaluation units, shall be established.
They are divided into four categories, which are:
- Service status - teaching experience.
- Scientific - pedagogical background and training.
- General composition of the candidate (interview).
The score of the interview will not exceed - in relation to the other selection criteria - 20% on a 100-point scale.
- Teacher evaluation (evaluation product, when available).
In the first phase of the implementation of the education management and supervision system and given the absence of evaluation data, the first three of the above elements are used.
The new management and supervision system will ensure the credibility, authority and continuity in the management and supervision of education, which is a necessary condition for its effectiveness.
Every beginning and difficult.
However, it is worth stressing that two of the fundamental issues, the management and supervision of education and evaluation, will be effectively addressed only if they are an internal function of teachers without external influences.
In the first phase of the implementation of the education management and supervision system, and given the absence of evaluation data, the first three of the above elements are used.
New Technologies are radically changing the landscape of education: the way of teaching and learning, the way of studying, but also the way of research and evaluation, education and training.
The challenge is for the Greek teacher and the student to be able to exploit the new technological possibilities within a global network of knowledge, information, communication and production process.
Information, information and knowledge provision in the web environment, videoconferencing, e-mail and Internet discussions are expected to become key tools for teaching and learning.
In 1992, we, among other things, opened the school to new technologies, establishing the field of Information Technology and appointing 1800 teachers in this field, and equipped almost all secondary schools with IT and H/Y laboratories.
Also, we introduced the course of Technology in secondary school.
For the use of new technologies, the main objective of our Programme is again:
- the "technological" educational modernization in infrastructure for the effective use of the possibilities of technology in learning,
- the training of teachers so that, apart from knowing how to operate H/Y, they learn:
a) the new teaching and learning possibilities offered by the new information technologies and
b) the ways in which software can be organized in the classroom and influence the learning outcome.
In order to achieve the above, the difficulties that exist regarding the logistical infrastructure and the relevant training as well as the prejudice that some teachers have for the use of H/Y in teaching practice must be addressed.
In the large family of peoples of the European Union, which is constantly expanding, in the context of the free movement of workers and the globalisation of the economy, in the knowledge and information society, language is an irreplaceable instrument of communication.
It is therefore the duty of the State to ensure equal opportunities and to support the proper learning of foreign languages by all our students, especially those from economically disadvantaged backgrounds.
In 1992 we introduced the systematic teaching of English from the fourth grade of primary school until the end of secondary school and, at the same time, the compulsory teaching of a second foreign language (French or German) in secondary school.
For the teaching of foreign languages, our main objectives are:
- With new curricula and textbooks, with modern teaching methods and tools, with relevant training of foreign language teachers, we will seek to improve the system of teaching foreign languages in public schools, so that students do not resort to tutorials.
- To implement an effective system of teaching foreign languages by level of proficiency, initially in all secondary schools and then in high schools.
School Vocational Guidance (SEP) is a process of particular importance which involves informing students about the various professions, as well as the qualifications and studies required for their practice.
In addition, its mission is to provide information that will help the student to make his/her own decisions about his/her career and life.
Today there are District Guidance Centres and School Offices for Vocational Guidance which are either staffed by untrained personnel or lack staff and are therefore not functioning.
Also, at school unit level, the implementation of the CPD is entrusted to teachers who are not specialised in this area.
They are simply supplementing their teaching time and as a result, the implementation is in most cases a failure and the educational world has the view that the "lesson" of CP is the "child's time".
Recognizing that today, due to the rapid changes in the technological and working environment, the EPP is becoming even more important, the ND strengthens and supports the institution with the following measures:
- Increasing the number of EPP Offices at a rapid pace.
- Increase the number of guidance centres and SEP Offices at an accelerated pace.
- Implementation of the EPP at school level by educational staff specialised in guidance and counselling.
- Development of the system of internet-based information resources and information and communication technologies and diagnostic tools, opening up new horizons for improving the range and quality of guidance and counselling services.
The Pedagogical Institute's main task is the scientific research and study of primary and secondary education issues and the submission of proposals for the formulation and design of educational policy.
It is also responsible for the drafting of curricula and the writing of textbooks.
Although it is the highest executive and research body of primary and secondary education, in recent years there has been a systematic downgrading of the P.I. and a reduction of its responsibilities with the establishment of parallel N.P.I.D., such as the K.E.E. and the O.E.P.E.K., whose responsibilities largely coincide with those of the P.I., resulting in dysfunctions in the entire educational system.
Therefore, the Pedagogical Institute needs to be re-established as a scientific advisory body to the Minister of Education and as a body of educational research-evaluation-training.
That's why:
- The PI will be re-established as an NPM. Its services will be restructured and reinforced with the necessary scientific and administrative staff.
- In accordance with the standards of similar institutions abroad, internal regulations will be drawn up for the operation of the PIU to ensure its flexibility and efficiency.
- The responsibilities of KEE and OEPEK, which are being abolished, will be incorporated into the PI.
- For the need to connect the PI with the school community, the good service of District School Counselors and School Counselors shall count toward the occupancy of a PI principal staff position.
For pedagogical and operational reasons, the school must operate only in the morning shift and cover an area with a student population that ensures its proper operation.
It must have its own building, with all the necessary laboratories and facilities.
The New Republic in the three-year period 1991-1993 successfully implemented a fast-track school housing programme, building 2,600 classrooms per year (by M.O.), almost double the average of the previous decade (1981-1990).
With the change of government, however, the programme faded away, with the result that the problem of school housing has not been solved for ten years.
Indeed, in large urban centres (Athens, Thessaloniki etc.) more than a quarter of schools operate in double shifts, sometimes even in triple shifts.
For the school building, our objectives are:-
Rapid construction of classrooms, so that all schools can be open in the morning within five years.
- Modern school complexes.
Particular attention will also be paid to the ancillary spaces (laboratories, recreation rooms, etc.);
- In the next five years, the ratio of pupils per classroom should be at least equal to the EU average.
The basic political choice of the New Democracy for the "re-foundation of the State", the radical reorganization and the real modernization of the Public Administration, is based on the realization and deep awareness that the present Public Administration is the main limiting factor for the progress of the country.
The course of the country towards the future is being sabotaged by a huge, wasteful, opaque and inefficient state.
An Administration that is inadequate to the circumstances and the challenges and in which corruption, partisanship and undue corruption abound.
This is what citizens see every day in many public services that, instead of serving them, they are inconvenienced and frustrated.
The administration is not friendly and the state is driving the citizen away, with the consequence that the citizen no longer trusts public bodies and institutions.
The causes of the administrative decline of the country are well known:
- clientelism and partisanship
- corruption and lack of meritocracy
- legalism
- inefficiency and bureaucracy.
All this adds up to the drama of administrative maladministration in our country.
A spirit of passivity and inertia, excessive centralisation, party and clientelistic logic of "accommodating" the daily workers prevails almost everywhere.
There is a lack of discipline, lack of motivation, egalitarianism and an aversion to rivalry and healthy competition.
This explains the spirit of defeatism and often cynicism that prevails in the country.
The Public Administration as it functions today is the big patient.
And it is the biggest obstacle to any effort for progress and development.
The state thus fails to fulfil its mission and instead of acting as a facilitator, it becomes a manipulator and an obstacle to the initiative of society and citizens.
This is the drama of public administration in our country today.
Citizens do not trust the state, There
are few institutions of the state for which the positive opinions of citizens outweigh the negative ones.
This is due to the fact that in critical areas of its competence the state is not fulfilling its mission to the letter.
The examples are many.
Typical examples are:
- The public services provided in the health sectors,
of education,
of the administration,
of social security
of justice,
transport, etc., are far from the requirements of the times and the needs of citizens.
- The state fails to control obscenity by strengthening competition and taking measures to ensure the proper functioning of the market.
- The state cannot offer citizens a sense of public safety.
Crime of all kinds increased to unprecedented levels;
- The state did not protect citizens from the so-called stock market bubble.
The competent control bodies did not care, resulting in hundreds of thousands of small investors losing their savings;
- The state did not prevent extensive arbitrary building with measures to encourage legal building and preventive controls.
The result of this policy is a heavy burden on the environment and the daily quality of life of citizens, but also on the quality and aesthetics of construction.
- The state and local authorities have not even been able to solve the elementary problem of waste.
Illegal landfills are countless in the country.
Garbage and rubbish are choking Greece, damaging the environment and tourism.
They expose the country internationally, while the EU is forced to impose penalties on us.
Greece is the country of the suffering of its inhabitants.
A citizen's visit to certain services or organisations to satisfy a request or fulfil an obligation often turns into a real odyssey.
The protagonists in the inconvenience of citizens are the Tax Offices, the IKA and other Insurance Funds, the Public Hospitals, the Planning Services, the MOTs.
Other central, or decentralized and prefectural services are not lacking in this dismal performance.
Bureaucracy, suspicion, long waiting time for service, inappropriate behaviour in many cases and irritation often characterise the relations between citizens and public services.
Citizens and civil servants are often crowded in inappropriate, aesthetically unacceptable, inhospitable and often polluted places, which exacerbates the unfavourable climate in State-citizen relations.
This unacceptable framework for the functioning of the Public Administration is the favourable environment for the incubation of corruption, which is unfortunately the norm in those services that cause the most inconvenience to the citizen or those that citizens "fear" the most.
But without an effective state, no policy can work and the country cannot meet the challenges of the 21st century.
In order not to become a laggard of developments, the country needs a modern state and an efficient public administration.
There is a national need to take immediate and drastic measures for the radical reform of the Public Administration, enriching it with new organisational structures and modern means, but also with executives with high-level skills.
It is imperative to address in the best possible way the chronic and structural problems that plague the administration of the country.
The main ones are the following:
PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION PROBLEMS
- The large size of the public sector and state over-inflation, which crushes and limits private initiative.
- The low quality of service delivery resulting in poor service and inconvenience to citizens and lagging productivity of the economy.
- The high cost of public services and goods and its incomplete valuation.
To cover these costs, the state with excessive taxation sucks the livelihood of the private economy and at the same time over-indebted itself.
- Poor organisation and centralisation of public services, with the main consequence of undermining regional development.
- The feeling of insecurity felt by citizens and the lack of trust in state services, public functions and institutions.
- The almost total lack of evaluation, unreliability, lack of control and sanctions and corruption, which undermine the authority of the state and the effectiveness of the administration.
The most important causes of the administrative misery of the country are the following:
- The intense state interventionism, which led to the over-expansion of the state and its involvement in almost every kind of business activity.
- The partisanship of the administration and the clientelism that has developed between rulers and citizens.
The tradition of bribery has been the basis of these clientelisms and has led to the unqualified recruitment of thousands of officials on purely partisan grounds.
Overt partisanship has led to the establishment of a regime of undignified and non-transparent government and the concealment of the true extent of unemployment.
- The absence of control and sanctions for violations of the principle of legality and good administration, which has led to corruption, opacity and illegal transactions.
This is the major issue in the public life of the country.
The state apparatus presents serious pathogenic features, such as:
- Absence of a clear and rational distribution of responsibilities among state institutions, whether centralized, decentralized or self-governing.
- A huge amount of chaotic legislation, which encourages situations of illegality, maladministration, opacity and corruption.
- Dependence of the administration on the party 'nomenklatura'.
Underestimation and mismanagement of the administrative apparatus, by a multitude of diverse consultants and systematic degradation of employees and executives to order-takers.
- Undermining of the moral mission of the state and absence of a spirit and mentality of responsibility of the state institutions.
- Lack of modern methods of organisation and management.
- Absence of an appropriate personnel policy, a system of fair evaluation and performance incentives.
As a result, inequalities flourish, the most competent people are not promoted and qualified executives are not used. -
Corruption is rife in many departments and levels of the administration, particularly in services that should serve the citizen directly (tax offices, town planning offices, road tax offices, MOTs, etc.)
- Inappropriate structures, large number of legal entities, high operating costs and low efficiency.
- Extremely slow rate of use of new technology (administrative information systems and cutting-edge technologies).
A recent report by European Central Bank officials shows that Greece leads the world's developed countries in public waste, corruption and the shadow economy, and is plagued by bureaucracy and poor quality of justice.
The problems of everyday life, the problems that Greeks see and discuss among themselves, are now proven by numbers.
According to this study, our country has the most wasteful state compared to other developed countries.
Every year it throws away about 10 billion Euros (3.4 trillion dollars).
This means that in Greece the public sector, based on its spending, could provide 35% more and better services to Greeks.
In other words, better education,
public administration,
pensions, health, social protection,
transport,
justice and other services.
According to the data of the study, the efficiency index of services provided by the Greek public sector is 0.65, while the average in the European Union is 0.78 and in the USA 1.
Without administrative convergence there can be no real and social convergence.
Greece also ranks first in the informal economy.
According to the same study, the so-called "shadow economy" in our country is estimated at 28.7% of Gross Domestic Product, while the average for the 23 developed countries of the world is 16.7%.
That is almost double the average.
The Concept and Content of "Re-foundation" -
The list (above) of problems in the organization and operation of the State and the Public Administration reveals the magnitude of the effort we must undertake to address them.
These problems are big, complex and serious.
A substantial improvement of the situation in the Public Administration is not possible through individual policy measures, occasional adjustments and interventions.
It requires a comprehensive and radical overhaul and reform of the public administration to such a degree and extent that it can be described as a "re-foundation of the state".
This does not mean that we will create the state from scratch.
But that the image of the State and the Civil Service we aim to create will be so different from the existing one and so improved that it will be in effect a "Re-foundation of the State".
The state and the administration must change radically before it is too late. This is the major challenge facing the country.
The reconstruction and the real re-establishment of the Public Administration is our strategic choice and priority, and is the most important task we foresee for our country in the coming years.
What everyone expects of the state today, and even more so tomorrow, is that it should be smaller in the economy, but better and more efficient in the services it provides or guarantees to provide.
Not to substitute and not to drive the economy, the productive classes and civil society.
We need a state that sets simple, clear and unambiguous rules and principles, which it first observes and implements, without "winking slyly" at interests and the powerful.
The state, in particular, today, must limit itself to what it is obliged to do and do it well.
To be a truly welfare state.
This is the meaning of the new idea of substantial, not pseudo-representational, modernisation and re-foundation of the state.
A leaner, more modern, more efficient state.
A state that means what it says and does what it says and applies it with consistency, determination and results.
A state that the citizen and society trusts, does not fear or despise.
We must move from the bureaucratic state of formalism and polygamy to the just state of democracy that deals with the problems of the People and the Land with wisdom and responsibility.
From the patronage state of the day, to the state and administration of meritocracy, neutrality, equality and impartiality.
To an administration that belongs to all Greeks and serves them all equally and effectively.
The country needs to make a leap from the stagnant state of centralisation and corruption to an honest and intelligent state that harnesses the knowledge and strengths of the country for balanced national development and prosperity.
The transition to the new state of increased capabilities is a key strategic choice of the New Democracy and the adoption of a package of specific and well-documented measures as well as the implementation of reform measures is foreseen.
The strategy of re-founding the state and administration in the 21st century presupposes above all a paradigmatic shift and a change in the relationship between the state and the market economy and civil society.
The change strategy we are planning goes beyond the institutional monopoly of state centralisation, promotes the reduction of state intervention in the economy and society,
combats bureaucracy in the administration and corruption, and
strengthens decentralisation, self-government,
efficiency, quality, transparency and credibility in the functioning of the Public Administration.
We are committed to and will put into practice the quantitative reduction and the redefinition of the limits of the state in the direction of less interference in the economy and
better services to the citizen and society.
We do not believe in the entrepreneurial state, but we believe in the state as a guarantor, regulator and promoter of healthy economic and social development and prosperity.
Reducing state intervention in the economy for us means rethinking and redefining the economic activities of the state and developing more efficient and effective ways of delivering them.
At the same time, it means clear and defined frameworks for the operation of public services and organisations, but also upgrading the control and regulatory activities of the state.
The re-establishment of the state means first and foremost a policy of consolidation of the public sector.
Our priorities are:
- Ensuring ethics and transparency in the action of the state and fighting corruption. CONTROL AND TRANSPARENCY EVERYWHERE.
- Evaluation at all levels, in the policies and actions of the State, in the units and persons.
- The promotion of efficiency and effectiveness in order to reduce the size and cost of the Public Administration's functions.
- Continuous monitoring of the effectiveness of expenditure.
- Restoring citizens' confidence in the institutions.
- The qualitative upgrading of public services, institutions and state functions with a view to providing high quality services and goods.
- The implementation of the principle of meritocracy and equal opportunities for all citizens as well as the provision of performance incentives and rewarding of managers according to their performance.
- The elimination of bureaucracy for the direct service of the citizen.
- Reducing centralisation and developing local and regional government.
- Eliminate polygamy and improve regulation.
- e-government and the use of information technology at all levels.
- Improve controls and establish independent authorities for procurement and public works.
The Public Administration must offer Greek citizens services comparable to those enjoyed by citizens of other countries of the European Union.
The state we are designing is a legal and efficient state, a responsible and determined state that is quick to anticipate, to anticipate, to act with flexibility and efficiency to address the problems of the citizen and society.
With our programme the state we seek to create is:
- A state smaller in economic terms, but better and more efficient in the services it offers or guarantees to the citizen.
- A state that offers equal opportunities to all citizens and treats them equally.
- A state that is democratic, modern and efficient, that measures and costs its actions, taking care to impose the least possible burden on society and the economy.
- A rule of law that respects the rules it sets.
- A state of social justice and solidarity, which manages contemporary social problems in a spirit of equality and justice.
- An efficient and decentralized state that orchestrates the national effort and utilizes modern knowledge and technology for the progress and well-being of society, within a humane and living natural environment.
- An accountable state that is conscious of its moral mission, alert, anticipating, mobilising and successfully tackling public problems.
- A state that is executive and strategically oriented, that is neither a merchant nor a businessman and that does not interfere excessively in the economy and civil society.
The role of the state that we seek is executive, regulatory and directive by defining clear objectives and framework rules.
It is also ancillary, supportive and audit-corrective.
The fair and impartial rule of law is a prerequisite for quality growth, equal opportunities and social cohesion.
Only in this way can the State and the Public Administration be put at the service of the citizen and not the citizen at the service of the State, as is often the case even today in our Land.
The reforms and measures announced rather than implemented by PASOK governments in recent years have not addressed the causes and structural problems of administrative maladministration.
Today more than ever, a bold proposal for radical reforms is needed.
To stop the Public Administration from being the "big patient" and the "Achilles' heel" in the national effort for growth, progress and prosperity.
The measures we envisage for the substantial improvement of the quality of our country's public services are the following:
- Government with fewer Ministries and collective operation
Reorganization of the government mechanism, with a reduction in the number of Ministries and members of the Government, with reorganization of the Ministries and clear definition of their responsibilities, in order to achieve policy unity and avoid dysfunctions and overlaps in the implementation of government action and public policy. -
Less state intervention in the economy and society
Instead of the overweight and hydrocephalic state with its huge volume and very limited capacity, we seek to create a flexible, less costly and executive state.
A state that does not intervene in the economy and society or in the lives of citizens, but only strategically and in a subsidiary way, when and where it is useful and necessary.
And we will achieve this by implementing an extensive programme of decentralisation and privatisation, so that the state is limited to its basic and inalienable tasks and obligations.
In this way we will unleash the creativity, freedom and dynamism of the economy, society and citizens.
- A brave transfer of resources and executive powers to the decentralised and self-governing units of the state.
Instead of the unnatural and quite unusual in developed countries over-concentration of almost all powers and activities in the water-headed capital, we envisage a generous transfer of resources and executive powers to decentralised and self-governing units of the state.
Only critical decisions of national scope, strategic planning, as well as the responsibility for ensuring the cohesion of the state and coordinating decentralisation and self-government are retained in central institutions and services.
We want the administration to be close to the citizen in order to provide services at the lowest possible level, where the real problems and needs are.
- Dignity, evaluation and more motivation for staff
Instead of the funnel of a civil service of hundreds of thousands of people who are not adequately paid and who operate in an environment of inefficiency and a total lack of evaluation and incentives for greater performance, we create an administration with better employees, who are selected meritocratically, who work hard, who are paid appropriately, who are trained and constantly updated, who are fairly evaluated for their work and who develop without partisan criteria only on the basis of their merit.
- Reduction of polygamy, simpler and fewer laws, their faithful application
We foresee the restriction of polygamy, because polygamy generally means malgamy and ultimately lawlessness.
Instead of thousands of complicated and often unnecessary and ineffective laws and regulations, a few good laws are needed.
Our aim is to remove unnecessary regulation and to drastically simplify and codify legislation by category.
A bold legislative and regulatory seismic shift, so that the citizen knows clearly his rights and obligations and the administration his responsibilities and powers. -
Empowerment of civil society
The self-limitation of the state that we are pursuing contributes to the effective empowerment of civil society, strengthening the movements and bodies of collective expression and initiative of citizens in the economic, social and cultural spheres. - A
modern model of management, oriented towards objectives and results
Above all, we are adopting a new system, a new methodology, mentality and philosophy of management and organisation, far from bureaucracy and legalism, passivity and inertia, corruption and hypocrisy.
The country needs a new method and practice of management based on objectives and results, economy of means, responsibility, systematic control and evaluation. -
e-Government and e-Administration
Instead of using outdated and anachronistic management systems, we foresee a substantial improvement and modernisation of the operational systems of administration, corresponding to the "digital age" and the "knowledge society".
The modern operation of administration is unthinkable without the use and exploitation of information technology.
"E-government", with the use of information systems in public administration, is the cutting-edge reform for the future. -
Public Administration neutral and impartial
Instead of centralisation and dependence of the Public Administration on party influence, we will impose meritocracy and neutrality of the Administration, which will be strengthened and ensured by the establishment of independent authorities to fight corruption, promote transparency and protect citizens' rights.
The modern democratic state must have continuity in its functioning, without party dependencies and influences, in order to serve the public interest in the long term and effectively. -
Transparency and control everywhere
Transparency as a prerequisite for the rule of law and a guarantee of the public interest is a basic principle which must govern all public life.
In order to implement the principle of transparency, we foresee, among other things, the establishment of an appropriate institutional framework, continuous monitoring with the imposition of sanctions, the reduction of the citizen's contact with the public through e-government and the introduction of objective criteria in the demands of the state from the citizen wherever possible.
What is called the "public sector" in Greece today is a huge in volume, cost, legal regulations and personnel political-administrative formation, whose productivity is generally negative and whose organisation is heterogeneous and bureaucratic.
There is no doubt that the public sector needs a bold, courageous and long-term reform breakthrough.
A breakthrough that puts the whole situation of the labyrinthine public sector on a completely new basis and direction in order to reduce its scope, better organize it, streamline its operation and increase its efficiency.
Today, the model of economic and social organisation based on the market economy and social justice has essentially prevailed worldwide.
Because it has been shown that only a free economy can ensure an increase in national wealth and only it can support the State in its important role and ensure a sustainable and effective social policy.
This is precisely the central core of our ideology: free enterprise combined with social justice.
The new delimitation of the public sector, the distribution of the work between the public and the private - business sphere of the economy, the definition of the supervisory, guarantee and regulatory role of the state, as well as the institutional framework for the operation of public benefit enterprises and organisations is a necessary parameter of the overall strategy for the re-foundation of the state.
The role and responsibilities of the state must be redefined in a clear and unambiguous way.
The role of the state is made up of the following functions:
- Those inherent in the nature of the state, which relate to the organisation of the state and the safeguarding of the general interests of the state and refer in particular to:
- public order and security, law and order,
administration and the administration
of justice
- external security, defence
and the country's international relations
- economic,
social
and cultural development
- safeguarding vital social goods,
social peace, cohesion and solidarity.
- Those relating to ensuring the full exercise of citizens' individual rights.
- Those relating to the direction of economic and social activities.
The State:
- It adopts clear, impersonal and stable rules, applied uniformly and objectively.
- It oversees the efficient and orderly functioning of the markets for goods, services, labour, money and capital to ensure that they operate competitively and in the interests of all.
- It provides modern infrastructure for economic, social and cultural development.
- It ensures an environment of economic stability and growth, under conditions of social justice and cohesion.
- It consistently promotes dialogue with the social partners, and consensual processes, in order to consolidate everyone's confidence in economic and social policy.
- It shall take all necessary action to protect the environment.
- The competence of the State includes:
- ensuring citizens' social rights, such as the organisation and provision of education services,
health, social protection and a high level of social security for all.
Also, the provision of information and entertainment services, cultural development, are important areas of care and protection.
For these functions, which consist in the realisation of citizens' social rights, the state cannot abdicate its responsibilities and powers, but it does not have a monopoly and exclusive prerogative in their exercise.
Consequently, private initiative and non-state activity cannot be excluded from this area.
The main responsibility of the state for this category of functions is that it must guarantee the quality of their provision either directly by itself or by private or non-state bodies and organisations of the market economy and civil society.
- The basic principle of our programme is that the state's provider and guarantor role dictates that, once the objectives and specifications of a project or service have been defined, their production may be contracted out to private parties if this (contracting out) achieves a better result and lower costs.
The state has a great influence on the formation of the country's economic figures and the development of the national economy.
Specifically, the state is:
- the largest employer, employing hundreds of thousands of people in its services and in state organisations and enterprises
; - the largest producer of goods and services
; - the largest investor in fixed capital investment (infrastructure, public enterprises, etc.)
; - the largest consumer of income generated mainly by others (private individuals).
- It is the state that lays down the rules by which the economy operates and monitors their application.
An efficient, modern and fair state within the framework of the market economy can be the most important promoter of the development of the national economy
and therefore of a meaningful and sustainable social policy.
In our country, unfortunately, especially in recent years, the state with its depressing presence and with its actions and activities harms rather than encourages the development of the economy.
State behaviour is often hostile to private initiative and entrepreneurship.
Our country is the last in Europe in attracting venture capital and productive investment from abroad.
The aim of New Democracy is to transform the state and the Public Administration from an opponent and obstacle to private business initiative to a key lever for the promotion and support of private investment and business activity.
That's why we predict:
- The state to withdraw from the exercise of public business activity which is part of the purely entrepreneurial and competitive sector of the economy.
This is not only allowed by the Constitution, but also dictated by the principle of subsidiarity, which is an essential part of modern political culture and the European acquis.
- The conduct of public business activities in areas of public utility will go hand in hand with the abolition of the privileges of public bodies and their exposure to market forces.
Respect for fundamental principles and rules can form a new, more correct and comprehensive framework, which will allow a policy of privatisation of the State's business activities to be drawn up in a completely clear and transparent manner, without reducing the guarantee role and character of the State.
- The key criterion for assessing whether a public undertaking or organisation should be privatised is whether it can be run more efficiently in the private sector, to the benefit of consumers, taxpayers, workers and the economy as a whole.
Our policy differentiates between those sectors and sub-sectors that are "natural" monopolies and those where competition can work.
- A. In natural monopolies (mainly network industries), where, due to economies of scale, the nature of the good produced and the size of the market, a single firm can produce more efficiently than two or more firms, the public character of the firms will be maintained.
- Β. In sectors that are not natural monopolies, privatisation will be substantial and management will be transferred;
- The State will ensure that in the privatisation process the public interest is served, that there are conditions of full transparency, that consumers are protected, that the principles of competition are respected and that jobs are safeguarded as far as possible.
- The State shall impose the relevant conditions on the private parties and monitor their consistent and effective compliance.
To this end, the inspection services shall be strengthened and organised so that they can carry it out effectively, and the penalties to be imposed in the event of a breach of these conditions shall be specified.
The Competition Commission is also strengthened and organised in a modern way to fulfil its mission.
The central pillars of our public sector policy are:
- the entrepreneurial role of the state is reduced to a minimum
; instead, its supervisory, guarantee, regulatory and control role is strengthened and upgraded substantially.
3.1 REORGANISATION OF THE CENTRAL ADMINISTRATION
The modern governance of the country needs an effective, executive and coherent Government, which operates collectively and in a coordinated manner, in order to deal with the major problems of the country and Hellenism in a comprehensive and planned way.
The main factors that limit the Government's ability to fulfil its mission as the primary decision-making and coordinating body of the country's governance are, in particular:
a) the large number of its members and the dispersion of related policy areas in many ministries, resulting in confusion, overlaps and conflicts
b) the use of the Council of Ministers mainly for legitimizing or symbolic purposes and not for policy-making
c) the violation of the unitary and collective character of the government and the Council of Ministers and their frequent substitution by other bodies and committees.
That's why we predict:
- Reducing the number of ministries while ensuring their executive role, so that they are better coordinated and operate more effectively.
- Clear responsibilities in each Ministry.
The concretization of the policy scope of each Ministry and the minimization of responsibilities, in order to avoid overlaps and conflicts.
- A four-year programme of abolition and mergers of legal entities and services and a privatisation programme to reduce the size of the public sector.
The aim is the smallest State in the economy and the best and most efficient State in society.
In the central services of the state there is currently an inflation of "responsibility" positions which in fact lead to the dispersion of competence, the fragmentation of operational unity, inefficiency and the inability to seek accountability.
In particular, there are about 90 General Directorates, 1,450 Directorates and 4,900 Departments in the Ministries.
In many cases the number of seats and sections is unnecessary.
Often these units not only lack clear and distinct objectives and responsibilities, but also lack even the minimum of suitable and necessary staff.
The inflation of fictitious positions of responsibility is the result of the flattening party-client logic in the administration of public services.
The consequence of this is the lack of meritocracy, the lack of evaluation and incentives and therefore the discouragement of competent and qualified staff.
Also unacceptable is the lack of correspondence between salary and duties, the almost non-existent differentiation of pay between junior and senior executives, with the result that the latter's pay is dramatically lower than that of their colleagues in the countries of the European Union.
The aim of our government programme is to redesign the structure of the Ministries based on their strategic programmes and policies.
In this context we foresee: -
the concretisation of the mission and the major sector or policy area of each Ministry
- the decentralisation of responsibilities to the executive bodies and local government
- the transfer to all hierarchical levels of appropriate decision-making powers
- the merger of services and their functional separation and differentiation into as few organisational units as possible, with an appropriate and sufficient scope of supervision.
As a rule, the supervisor should have no more or less than 5-7 subordinates
; - modern job design and job description
; - specification of responsibilities and related evaluation of results on the basis of operational action plans.
The modern model of state organisation must be governed by the principle of subsidiarity and the economy of the levels of administration.
The main objectives and axes of modern governance are:
- the strengthening of the institutions of decentralisation and self-government
- the service of the citizen to the fullest extent and at the level closest to him
- the assurance of balanced national development
- the rational organisation of the regional services of the state
According to the principle of subsidiarity in the action of the state, which is now an institutional acquis of the legal and political culture of the European Union, there is a double presumption of competence: - on the one hand, in
favour of the private sector of the economy and the free market for commercial, business and productive activities, from which the State must refrain and act only in a regulatory, monitoring and corrective capacity;
- on the other hand, in favour of decentralisation and self-government rather than central administration, which must now act in an executive, planning and coordinating capacity.
Decentralised and self-governing units take over almost all the executive activities of the state, while central services retain executive planning and control.
The executive nature of government means that central services are responsible for strategic planning, programming and supporting legislative work.
They also have the task of coordinating, evaluating and checking the legitimacy of the results of the decentralised and self-governing units' actions, without hindering their initiative and free action.
The evaluation of the course of the PASOK government in the field of local government to date leads to the following observations and findings:
- Institutional regressions and sloppiness that have damaged the authority and effectiveness of local government organisations.
- Lack of a comprehensive strategic plan for the administrative organisation of the country and a hostile attitude towards the prefectural administration. -
Disregard for the financial self-reliance and autonomy of local authorities, resulting in the inability to exercise effective and productive administration of local affairs, as well as the over-indebtedness of many local authorities
- Transfer of responsibilities and actions to municipalities from ministries and state agencies without the transfer of corresponding resources.
- The Government violates Article 102 of the Constitution and the current legislation and does not allocate to local government the institutionalized resources.
It collects on behalf of the municipalities but does not deliver the resources they are entitled to.
Local Authorities are currently owed 4.5 billion euros (1.5 trillion dirhams) and the Government has not delivered institutionalized resources of 3 billion euros (1 trillion dirhams).
Forced mergers of Municipalities and Communities without prior study and with party self-interest and expediency.
- Confusion in the distribution of responsibilities between the various levels of self-government and the absence of a clear definition of the executive responsibilities of each level of state administration.
- Inability to transform the EAPA into a real programme of support for local government.
The much advertised dowry of local government for "Kapodistrias" was not given.
The government does not respect the law it has passed and the programme is unilaterally funded by the local government
- Lack of interest in the development of local authorities in mountainous and island areas.
- Inability to make balanced regional development a top national priority objective and decentralisation of economic activities.
For these reasons, the view prevails that local government today is based on "feet of clay".
Our policy on decentralisation and self-government is inspired by new principles, is based on solid foundations and corresponds to the new spirit of governance of the country.
In this context we foresee:
- The creation of truly self-governing organisations, in order to reduce the gap between the citizen and the authority, to multiply the opportunities for active participation of citizens in the realisation of common goals.
In this way, citizens will not have the feeling that their affairs are handled by anonymous, remote and inaccessible bodies.
- The administration of local authorities should be based on transparency, legality, respect for citizens' rights and effective management of local affairs.
- The definition of the executive responsibilities of central services and the effective transfer of responsibilities for local affairs to the various levels of government.
The principles of decentralisation, subsidiarity and efficiency are the starting point for the process of any reform.
- No new powers without new resources.
Each new local government competence must be accompanied by the necessary resources, adequate staffing and necessary support mechanisms, after costing.
- No new law without an expression of opinion by the O.T.A.
No legislative initiative concerning the TA will be finalised without the prior expression of its opinion.
- Participation in all stages of Community programmes.
Participation of Local Authorities in the planning, programming and implementation of Community Programmes (CIPs);
- Local consultation for the organised and in-depth examination of local problems, involving civil society organisations and individual citizens.
At the end of the procedure, a report is drawn up and submitted to the City Council.
- Establishment of a National Council of Self-Government.
The establishment and operation of the National Council of Self-Government will give an institutional character to cooperation, consultation and coordination between the levels of self-government.
It will also be an institution of reflection for the formation of a political and social consensus on major issues of TA.
The National Council of Self-Government is convened by the Minister of Interior and Public Administration, who chairs it.
The President and two members of the KEΔKE Bureau, the President and two members of the ENAE Bureau, two representatives of the Presidents of the Regional Councils, representatives of the political parties in Parliament and two professors of relevant universities are participating.
- Establishment of an Institute of Local Government as a N.P.I.D. under the Ministry of Interior and Public Administration.
The mission of the Institute is:
- To conduct studies, research and training of the executives of local government and the continuous updating of its representatives;
- To provide advisory assistance and scientific support to local authorities;
- To formulate well-founded positions on the institution and problems of local government;
- To cooperate with foreign institutions, bodies and institutions of the European Union, in order to contribute to the effective participation of Greek local government in international activities.
- Strengthening the role of the O.T.A. in the battle for employment.
Cooperation and active participation of the local government in the fight against unemployment with organized employment observatories per prefecture or municipality and the creation of an information hub between local observatories, the National Employment Observatory, O.A.E.D. and other bodies that carry out employment surveys (G.S.E.E., S.E.B., etc.).
Support for local authorities to develop an e-government infrastructure and encourage consortia of local authorities to develop IT systems at inter-municipal level.
- Organising local government in island regions to fully adapt to the specificities of their geographical, economic and social characteristics and in such a way that each island has its own integrated and effective system of administration and self-government.
- Specific operational plans for mountain and island regions.
- Removal of the injustices and social tensions resulting from the forced amalgamations under the 'Kapodistrias' programme (by law or by local referendums).
- Enhancing the aesthetics of the town and village and protecting the environment.
- Inter-municipal cooperation in the form of 'co-cities'.
Incentives will be given to municipalities and communities to cooperate at inter-municipal level for certain functions (transport, municipal police, waste management, water supply), without wasting human and resource resources in order to achieve the best results.
- Metropolitan cooperation, modern operating framework.
Encourage and organize forms of "metropolitan cooperation" (Athens, Thessaloniki, Piraeus, etc.) for more effective problem solving and better quality service delivery at lower cost.
- Promotion of the expatriate villages programme, in cooperation with the Council of Expatriate Hellenes, enhancing the repatriation of expatriate Hellenes through self-government.
- Passing a modern Code of Municipalities and Communities after a meaningful dialogue with representatives of local government and political parties.
- Establishment of a new system of distribution of Central Autonomous Resources, which will ensure their fair distribution, contributing to local development.
- Timely and faithful allocation to local government of all statutory resources. -
Full implementation of the law on the Special Local Government Programme (SLP);
- The planning and programming of local projects must be carried out by the local authorities in whose area of responsibility they fall.
- Support municipalities in the implementation of civil protection measures.
- Setting up a Cohesion Fund for local authorities to support financially weak local authorities and local authorities affected by exceptional events or natural disasters.
- Strengthening the regular revenues of local authorities from the State Budget in order to ensure the financial independence and sustainability of local government.
- Ensure a stable institutional framework of decentralised and immediately collected funds.
- Provide OTAs (as will be regulated by law) with the possibility to appeal at the B level against decisions they deem as illegal administrative acts.
Our programme provides for specific interventions for the institution of the Prefectural Government.
a. Strengthening the programmatic role of the Prefectural Government in cooperation with primary local authorities and social bodies.
b. Strengthening the powers of the elected Prefect and removing the eight-year term limitation.
c. Increasing the regular revenues of the Prefectural Government from the State Budget and increasing the percentage of the MIPs for the Prefectural Programs.
d. Participation of the NPC as an advisory body on regional development issues.
According to the Constitution, there are two levels of local government.
New Democracy, as a B' degree, sees the Prefectural Government.
The county and the prefect are administrative institutions well established in the minds of the people.
Thoughts about the weakening or even abolition of the Prefectural Authorities, such as those heard from the government's side, find us absolutely opposed.
Because this way, proximity to the citizen is damaged and, by extension, the participation of the citizen is devalued, which is a basic prerequisite for local development and is the great virtue and guiding principle of Greek local government and the vision of the European Union.
At the same time, we recognise that the importance of regions has increased in Europe and will continue to do so.
The European Union places particular emphasis on the role of the regions as a driving force for development and as a factor in strengthening cohesion in the Union.
The importance of the regions in the areas of inter-county planning, in the implementation of the principles of subsidiarity and decentralisation, as well as in balanced national development, are all new challenges for the development of democratic structures.
Our aim is to reduce isolation and integrate the regions into the European area by developing a specific plan per region, with axes:
- The exploitation of local specificities and comparative advantages
- The creation of Regional Development Organisations in which local authorities and the productive classes will participate
- The strengthening of investments
- The improvement of the quality of life
- The strengthening of citizens' participation in the community, as well as the promotion of general national objectives.
We predict:
- An elected Regional Council with an elected President.
The general application of the principles of decentralised government and democratic representation, which will be implemented through the election of elected regional councils.
The President of the Regional Council is elected by its members.
- The President and the Regional Council shall exercise advisory, decision-making and supervisory powers to be determined by law.
- The allocation of the resources of the Region by the District Administration and the planning of development programmes and inter-county level actions shall be carried out by the Regional Council.
The above functions are based on a thorough study by the Region and on recommendations by the District Administrations based on proposals by the OTAs.
This is how Democratic Programming is put into practice and cooperation between the first and second tiers of local government is achieved.
- The decentralised body of state administration in the Region will be the Secretary General of the Region with a term of office.
The role and responsibility of the Secretary General of the Region will be:
- The supervision of the observance of the legality of the administrative action of the decentralized and self-governing units based in the region, which is judged by the legally competent bodies.
- The coordination of the regional public services based in the region.
- The exercise of State powers in the region.
- Responsibility for the implementation of inter-county development programmes.
We also provide in our programme:
Change of the electoral law for local authorities - Election on the first Sunday with 42% of the votes.
- The change of the electoral law concerning local government, so that its elected members are elected from the first Sunday with an election system that ensures a representative, but stable and viable, but with the requirement for the majority combination, at least 42% of the votes.
Double-entry accounting system in all local authorities.
- Implementation of a double-entry accounting system and publication of the budgets and balance sheets of the local authorities.
This will enable control of financial management and ensure transparency.
Prudential and ex-post control by the Court of Auditors.
- Mandatory subjection of local authorities to preventive and repressive control by the Court of Auditors.
Establishment of the institution of the Public Defender.
- Establishment of the institution of the "Public Advocate" to control maladministration and protect the rights of citizens.
Corruption in the form of bribery (passive or active) of senior civil servants and officials is a form of invisible crime, while few cases have been brought to justice.
Corruption is rampant in many public services and many citizens are convinced that without a "bribe" there is no hope for a successful outcome of their case or request.
Transparency, as a prerequisite of the rule of law and a guarantee of the safeguarding of the public interest, is a basic principle which must govern all public life in the country.
The implementation of the principle of transparency, however, presupposes the existence of an appropriate institutional framework with the necessary guarantees for its enforcement and observance in practice.
Today, not only have no adequate safeguards been put in place to guarantee transparency, but on the contrary, over the last decade, under the sole responsibility of the PASOK governments, regulations have been introduced that even provide an institutional basis for opacity in key areas of public life, such as public procurement, the media and the Stock Exchange.
But also with regard to the transparency of the finances of political parties, political figures and members of the government, there are now heavy shadows in the minds of citizens, which devalue our political system and the quality of democracy.
The control of the finances of political parties and political persons has been almost non-existent, mainly due to the inadequate composition of the competent auditing body.
In practice, the application of the "financial security" to political persons has been limited in a sham way only to "what is financial security" and not to "financial security".
And the Prime Minister's recent announcements on the "behind-the-scenes" are hypocritical and ineffective mainly because they do not establish effective control bodies.
The absence of effective control over the awarding of public works and procurement contracts, which ensures the conditions for awarding contracts to "daily workers", not only unfairly penalises capable Greek entrepreneurs, but also further distorts healthy competition, harms the national economy and the public interest and ultimately damages taxpayers.
The PASOK governments have created a vast dark field of opacity covered by corruption and corruption, which, among other things, poison the healthy social fabric of the country on a daily basis.
Indicatively mentioned are regulations adopted by the PASOK governments since 1993:
Law 2172/1993 Conversion of the crime of dishonesty into a misdemeanour.
Law 2446/1996 Entrusting the conclusion of programmatic agreements to the administrations of public utilities "in derogation of the provisions of the text", which allowed them to distribute supplies to corrupt interests at prices even twice as high as those prevailing internationally.
Law 2522/1997 Awarding public contracts, works, supplies and services to whomever the Government wants without the slightest sanction, since those who are wronged can simply appeal to the Justice to get compensation, while those who illegally took the project continue its execution.
Law 2576/1998 Introduction of the so-called "mathematical formula" in the selection of public works contractors, which has been condemned by the competent EU Commission.
Law 2843/2000 Removed the possibility for the Public Prosecutor's Office to carry out an inquiry, preliminary investigation or preliminary examination for suspected offences in stock exchange transactions only if there is permission from the Judicial Council.
Law 3021/2002 Legalisation of the interlocking of SME companies with companies that conclude public works and supply contracts through the "main shareholder".
The latest report by European Central Bank officials ranks Greece 1st among the world's developed countries in terms of corruption, the shadow economy and waste of public money.
While the report of the international organisation Transparency International, published about six months ago, ranks our country in 44th place in terms of transparency issues, after Uruguay, Tunisia, Costa Rica and Namibia.
The extent of corruption is such that it has left no area of contact between the state and the citizen or the businessman unscathed.
Never before has a Supreme Court prosecutor been forced to say that what is said about corruption "pales in comparison to reality".
Tax offices, urban planning offices, public works departments, forestry services are in the public's mind typical examples of corruption.
The reports of the Ombudsman, the Public Administration Inspectorate, surveys by IOBE, studies by the Hellenic Centre for Entrepreneurship and the report of the GRECO group of the Council of Europe, confirm widespread phenomena of corruption of public officials.
A recent report by European Central Bank officials is striking on corruption and waste of public money.
The New Democracy, considering transparency as a necessary qualitative element of democracy, a guarantee of the rule of law and a safeguard of the public interest, is committed to the principle of transparency in all its scope and manifestations, while at the same time fighting the sources of opacity and complicity.
It is necessary to take all institutional measures to ensure:
- The control of "political money".
- Control of the share capital of legal entities managing the media.
- Reform of the institutional framework for public works, supply and service contracts.
- Guarantees of transparency in stock exchange transactions.
- Remove all institutional obstacles to effective control by independent authorities and the judiciary of public procurement and stock exchange transactions.
- Combat all other sources of corruption and corruption.
In particular we foresee:
Political Money Control
We attach particular importance to the control of the finances of political parties and the "whereabouts" of political figures, but also of public sector executives in key positions for the management of public money.
Therefore, we plan to implement a grid of devices that can effectively address the problem.
Our proposals are realistic and workable.
They do not aim to simply sensationalize and cover up the problem with unworkable laws, such as the government proposal to apply the "past history" to hundreds of thousands of civil servants.
Specifically, we predict:
A commission is set up to control "political money".
The Commission will be composed of the President and five advisers of the Court of Auditors, who will be appointed by lot, the Secretary General of the Parliament and the Ombudsman.
In this way, transparency guarantees are ensured.
In order to fulfil its mission and to ensure that the audit is complete and reliable, the Commission shall be adequately staffed and equipped with the necessary powers and facilities.
This committee will control:-
The finances and expenditures of political parties and MPs, not only during the election period but also during the interim period.
It also monitors the election expenses of the candidates for Parliament.
- The "whereabouts" of all political persons, i.e. members of the Government, Deputy Ministers, Members of Parliament, Secretaries General of Ministries and Regions, Special Secretaries, Directors or Presidents of Public Organisations and Enterprises.
Prefects and mayors are also subject to control.
It will be continuous, thorough, will cover every change in assets and will focus on the "whereabouts" and not just the "whatabouts".
The verification of the "alibi" will be carried out for the entire period during which a person has the status of a political person.
- A special department for "alibi" is being set up within the General Inspectorate of Public Administration.
It undertakes the control of the "past affairs" of the general directors of public services, N.P.D.D. and O.T.A., directors and heads of departments that have exercised or are exercising responsibilities in matters of public works or procurement, urban planning, forests, taxation, subsidies, granting of permits and approvals that may be subject to transactions and corruption.
The audit also includes members of procurement or public works or design committees as well as the supervisors of major projects.
Here too, the check will be continuous and will include any change in the financial situation of the above-mentioned officials.
It will be extended on a sample basis to non-audited categories of officials when there are indications of corruption in the area they serve or manage.
In order for the control of the "past affairs" to be effective and for both the Political Money Control Commission and the special "past affairs" department to operate effectively, any secrecy (banking, tax or stock exchange) will be lifted, if necessary.
- Members of Parliament, members of the government and all governing bodies of the wider public sector shall be prohibited from engaging in financial transactions.
- Their stock exchange transactions up to then, and in particular those of the period 1998-2000, will be fully audited by the Audit Commission, following the compulsory opening of all kinds of codes of the politicians themselves and their relatives.
- Severe penalties for offenders.
The above proposals constitute a comprehensive plan to control political money.
But the key to the success of the project is to put an end to impunity once and for all.
The penalties for offenders should be severe and should go as far as the confiscation, always in accordance with the requirements of the Constitution, of assets that have not been declared or proven to have been acquired illegally.
Measures for the safeguarding of all the competences of the National Broadcasting Council under the Constitution, so that the current unacceptable umbilical cord that connects it to the Minister of Press and Media is completely severed, as well as measures for the effective exercise of these competences (financial means, logistical infrastructure).
- Full and continuous monitoring of the composition of the share capital of legal entities managing SMEs, up to the level of natural persons, in order to verify its origin and to exclude corruption.
- Prohibition of any kind of interference by foreign companies in the share capital of legal entities managing SMEs.
- Reduction of the percentage of the 'main shareholder' to the minimum possible, in order to close as far as possible this constitutionally established by the government 'backdoor' of the corruption in the media.
- Abolish any possibility of using surrogates, whether related or not, in the share capital and management of legal entities managing media.
The repeal would include the current perforated regulation that allows the use of such surrogates when they demonstrate alleged "financial self-sufficiency".
- Establishment of an Independent Authority for the supervision and control of public works, supply and service contracts, both in terms of compliance with transparency rules and in terms of compliance with the studies defining the framework of these contracts.
This body shall be composed of senior judicial officers and competent experts.
- Repeal of the unacceptable current institutional framework (Art. 2940/2001 which allows the formation of an oligopoly in the public works sector and the violation of any notion of free and healthy competition.
This article provided for the possibility for public works contractors to form consortia for the construction of a project undertaken by one or more of them.
This circumvents any notion of healthy and free competition by facilitating pre-coordination between the various contracting companies prior to their participation in the relevant tender.
- Replacement of the current 'formula', which hinders free and healthy competition in the award and execution of public works.
The "mathematical formula" will be replaced by a modern and transparent institutional framework based primarily on the axes:
Firstly, the preparation of complete and comprehensive studies and secondly, strict adherence to these studies.
- Abolition of the opaque provisions of Article 16 of Law 2446/1996, which currently establish broad and unacceptable derogations from the general procurement legislation.
Derogations that allowed a series of photographic and suspicious assignments of programmatic agreements.
In particular, henceforth, the programmatic agreements of the water, energy, transport and communications sectors will be carried out in accordance with the provisions of Law 2286/1995 and other general provisions on procurement.
- Abolish the provisions of Article 4 of Law 2522/1997, which constitute a "Trojan Horse" of opacity and corruption, as they allow the non-enforcement of even irrevocable court decisions annulling illegal public procurement contracts.
- Abolition of the current wide and unacceptable derogations from the legislation on public procurement (Article 16 of Law 2446/1996) so that the programme contracts of the water, energy, transport and communications sectors are also subject to guarantees of transparency and reliability.
Transparency in stock exchange transactions is a prerequisite for the preservation of the prestige of an institution as useful for the development of our national economy as the Stock Exchange and the protection of the interests of small shareholders.
In this context we foresee:
- The reduction of the Securities and Exchange Commission to a truly independent Authority, independent of government and party centres, in order to be able to control and prevent scandals, such as the major political and financial scandal of the Stock Exchange, which cost over 30 trillion drachmas to at least 1.5 million small investors.
Today, and since the latest dramatic developments in its field, the Securities and Exchange Commission is not only not an independent administrative authority, but acts as a proxy for the ruling party.
- The abolition of the provisions of Law 2651/1988 and Law 2843/2000, which were enacted precisely to constitute institutional barriers to the control bodies and judicial authorities, both in terms of controlling the legality of stock exchange transactions and in terms of committing criminal offences in connection with them.
The abolition of the unethical conversion of the crime of disloyalty of public officials and employees from a felony to a misdemeanor, which was made in 1993 (law 2172) in order to limit the statute of limitations for the ruling party's nomenklatura.
Unfaithfulness of public officials will be made a felony again.
- The establishment of special criminal divisions in the major Courts of First Instance and the Courts of Appeal of Greece (Athens-Piraeus, Thessaloniki, Patras, Larissa, Heraklion) to speed up the administration of justice in trials concerning transparency.
3.4 THE INDEPENDENT PRINCIPLES
The establishment of independent institutions and bodies is a better way to protect citizens' rights against arbitrary state action, but also to ensure the separation and balancing of powers, to fight corruption, and to restore greater transparency, efficiency and flexibility in the functioning of the political system.
A top parameter of our strategy for the reorganization of the state and the launch of a new system of governance of the country is the clear political commitment to the decoupling of the Public Administration from party influence.
The Independent Authorities are expected to play a key role in reversing the current situation, as well as in enhancing the efficiency, expertise and meritocratic neutrality of the administration.
Some of them have already been set up, but lack the staff and infrastructure to be able to fulfil their mission.
We envisage the establishment of five new independent authorities and the upgrading and strengthening of existing ones.
Specifically, we envisage the establishment of the following new independent administrative authorities:
- The Public Administration Council, with the task and mission not only to control the recruitment of personnel (like the current AΣEP), but also to develop an advisory and consultative role and competence on issues of organization and operation of public services.
- The Ombudsman for Health and Social Services, with the aim of combating maladministration in these sensitive areas.
- The Public Defender of Rights for local government issues.
- Committee for the Control of Public Works, Procurement and Service Contracts to combat corruption and ensure transparency in the sensitive area of public procurement.
- The Commission for the Control of "political money", with the mission defined in the text on transparency.
Finally, it is proposed to further upgrade, expand the role and better organise existing independent authorities and bodies, such as: - The
Citizen's Advocate and the institution of the Consumer Advocate
- The National Broadcasting Council, which guarantees the effective application of the principles of objectivity, equality and quality, as well as the principles of transparency in the field of broadcasting
- The Authority for the Protection of Personal Data
- The Capital Market Commission and the Competition Commission, in order to respond to their work and the needs of the new business environment.
1.1 The ESS's DEPENDENCE AND CURRENT CHALLENGES
Protecting health is a primary Social Responsibility.
The State must provide and guarantee to all citizens high quality health services.
It has the obligation to have all the necessary means to support an integrated health policy, in accordance with modern scientific data and the principles of ethics and the protection of human life.
Unfortunately, however, it is now a common belief that even today, Greece still lacks a reliable and effective Health System.
The so-called "National Health System", twenty years after its creation, has failed to provide Greek citizens with the health services they need and for which they are taxed and pay their insurance contributions.
The NHS is associated with images of shame that are certainly not appropriate in a 21st century European country.
Unfortunately, every day, in the public hospitals of our country, the dignity of the citizen dies.
High private spending: a source of social inequalities The
price of this failure is unbearable.
On the one hand, health - the most precious human asset - is not adequately protected and the level of services offered in this sensitive sector remains low.
On the other hand, citizens are forced to pay out of their own pockets to cover the deficits of government policy.
In the 20 years of the NHS's life, private spending has not only not disappeared - as promised by the system's promises - but has increased.
Today, according to data released by the OECD in 2003, only 56% of total health expenditure in Greece is public, while 44% is private.
The corresponding figures in the European Union are around 74% and 26%.
That is, for every 100 euros spent on health services in our country, the citizen pays 44 euros out of his pocket - while the corresponding expenditure of European citizens is about 26 euros.
Also, according to OECD data, in Greece in 2001, total public and private expenditure on health amounted to 9.4% of GDP, while the EU average was 9.3%.
However, health services in our country are at a very low level.
This is due both to the mismanagement of public expenditure and to the fact that the sum of private and public expenditure does not finance a well-organised health system in a coordinated way.
Of particular importance is that of the 44% of private expenditure, 90% is given for direct payments and the well-known "envelope" which are made while the citizen is receiving the supposedly free health services and not for his participation in the costs of medicines or private insurance.
According to the same survey, 2.5% of Greek households are financially ruined in an attempt to cope with a health problem.
The figure is eloquent for the overall picture and truly tragic, considering that the average in the European Union is 0.4%.
Thus our country is the first in the European Union in private spending on health care and the last in public spending.
But high private spending is a source of social inequalities.
This is because those who have money enjoy better care, while those who don't have money find it harder to access and use services.
What are the causes of the failure of the NHS:
The NHS failed inevitably, in its economically inefficient, socially unfair and scientifically outdated implementation process.
The causes of the failure of the NHS are many.
The PASOK governments sacrificed on the altar of political expediency the basic principles of a modern Health System, such as the right of free choice for the citizen, the possibility of direct and easy access to all levels of care and the provision of quality health services.
Also, that all these years the rulers have been mainly engaged in serving petty partisan interests and in rhetorical, supposedly "ideological", declarations that have never been put into practice.
In its two decades of implementation, the NHS has proven in practice to be not only inefficient but also wasteful.
The mismanagement of resources and stifling party interventionism, combined with the underground economy, have achieved a phenomenon unique in Europe: the maintenance at huge cost of an anachronistic and degraded "Health System".
Studies carried out at the University of Athens have shown that the cost of inefficient operation of the hospital system amounts to about 30% of the total operating system.
This means that without any financial burden the hospital product produced could be improved by 30%.
While in all countries of the European Union the increase in the cost of health services is the result of the application of the continuous development of technology and the improvement of services, in Greece the cost is increasing without improving either qualitatively or quantitatively the health services provided to the Greek citizen.
This is why Greece is the EU country with the lowest level of satisfaction with the health care system (Eurobarometer 2002).
What is the current situation:
Today the NHS is bounded by a mosaic of legislative regulations, which not only do not solve but further aggravate the accumulated problems in the field of health care.
The situation is well known:
- The hospitals, victims of mismanagement, are again sinking into deficits - just two years after the settlement of their previous debts, they already owe more than 400 billion dirhams to their suppliers.
- Citizens are suffering like residents of a third world country in outpatient clinics in the morning hours and on call days for the general public.
But in the same hospitals, in the evening hours, some doctors' private practices operate, which patients pay a high price for. -
The huge queues and waiting lists in hospitals force patients to resort to any means of obtaining care, whether orthodox or unorthodox (the well-known 'envelope')
- Many hospitals - especially in Athens and Thessaloniki - are old.
Across the country, infrastructure deficiencies are severe.
Twenty-year-old machines are still in use, while even the most recent ones are not well maintained.
Technology is not used efficiently, from purchase to maintenance.
- Many regional hospitals are totally inadequate to deal with cases of patients with serious problems, with the result that these patients have to be transferred to large central hospitals.
Athens currently receives patients from other regions at a rate of over 38% and Thessaloniki at a rate of 47%.
These percentages are even higher than in 1980!
- Moreover, it is well known that the ambulance system of the EHIC faces many significant problems, resulting in costs even in human lives.
- Citizens' complaints about public hospitals are very high.
As shown in the NPS survey, the negative opinions about their services are 47.6% on the level of dignity, 46% on the issue of timely attention and 63.5% on the evaluation of the environment.
- There are major shortages of staff.
According to the workers' federations and the hospitals themselves, there are more than 25,000 vacancies.
- Citizens are faced with an unacceptable situation in primary care.
IKA - for example - is characterised by inconvenience, long waiting lists, lack of basic specialisations.
The health services of IKA, and secondarily of other funds, have been devalued in the minds of the insured, resulting in a large drain of family income to the private market.
- Greece is the only country in the European Union where each insurance organisation chooses and implements its own inefficient and bureaucratic primary care system, with the result that the insured pay the bills.
The Greek phenomenon of the production of health services by the insurance funds themselves is unique in all EU countries.
This must stop!
Primary care is the biggest plague on the NHS;
- Health centres are severely lacking in both staff and infrastructure.
Their equipment in most cases has not been renewed in the last twenty years.
Our country is the only European country that lacks effective emergency care and treatment, resulting in the loss of lives.
- The system of training and retraining of doctors and nurses in the NHS is practically non-existent.
- The concepts of quality control and certification - necessary for a health care system to function efficiently - are unknown.
- Increasingly, Greeks are being forced to turn to the private sector, despite the problems it too faces.
For outpatient services, more than half of Greeks (51%) turn to the private sector, while 20% of Greeks choose to be treated in private hospitals, despite the high cost.
In other words, even many insured people prefer to pay for their care rather than use the free but low-quality health services provided to them.
All of this has led to a tragic impasse that is even troubling many who once supported the NHS with fanaticism.
The New Health Policy we propose:
It is therefore logical to ask the question that arises today:
Is the situation that has arisen in the health sector reversible or not?
We firmly believe that there are solutions.
These solutions, however, require thoughtful planning in order to form a comprehensive proposal and the political will and boldness to implement them.
The NHS is no longer amenable to a new simple beautification of its image.
Half-measures can offer nothing.
A radical overhaul is needed, with the main guidelines being the quality that has been so deprived and the avoidance of the waste that the Greek citizen has paid so much for in recent years.
Aware of the difficulties, we believe that it is possible to create the necessary conditions, both by creating the institutional framework and by appropriate financial planning, to ensure the resources needed for the gradual implementation of the radical changes and the implementation of the proposed measures.
A fundamental principle of the new health policy we propose is the creation of a modern Health System, in which health protection and not only disease management will be the priority and in which:
- equal opportunities for easy access to health services for all citizens
- free choice of doctor
These are for us a national and social vision.
In a modern democratic society, health policy must be characterised by respect for human personality and freedom of choice.
The state has an obligation to provide all citizens with high quality health services.
At the same time, however, private initiative can also be active, based on rules and standards set by the state, which supervises their implementation.
Our principles
A modern health system should be guided by the following principles:
- Prioritise health protection and not just disease management.
- It should be fair and ensure equal opportunities for all citizens to access health services.
- It should ensure the right to choose a doctor freely.
- It must be effective and combine the quality of the services it provides with the efficiency of the system.
- it must be flexible, capable of adaptation and continuous improvement, without being hampered by cumbersome, bureaucratic procedures
- be decentralised in terms of staff and services.
- Be integrated - including all levels - and utilize the entire medical profession for the benefit of Greek citizens.
- Ensure that health workers are provided with decent working conditions and satisfactory remuneration.
- To operate rationally, with responsible financial management and not with the current wastefulness.
Our goals
Based on these principles, our programme has the following key objectives:
- To ensure the right to health at a high quality level, both for each citizen and for public health as a whole.
- To guarantee in practice the right to free choice of doctor and to ensure easy access to all levels and functions of the system.
- Eliminate inequalities between the centre and the periphery through a new national programme.
To this end, a health map of the country is being created, which will record the human resources, the logistical infrastructure, the shortcomings and the needs of each region of the country.
Based on the health map, new health units are created where necessary, and medical and health professional staff are specialised and distributed.
- Modernise the health system by introducing a single electronic medical record for each patient.
This file will accompany the patient to all medical services and all levels of care, with all safeguards for the protection of personal data.
- To establish uniform operating conditions in both the public and private sectors, always in line with modern scientific standards.
- To establish a uniform framework at national level to ensure modern and high-quality training, further training and continuous education for doctors and health professionals.
- Ensure the continuous implementation of a system of evaluation, quality control and certification of the health care system and each facility.
Also ensure the continuous assessment of the medical and health professionals.
The selection and development of doctors and health professionals should be based on substantive meritocratic criteria.
- Create a rigorous and reliable control mechanism for all levels of the health system.
- Fully protect the rights of the citizen against state arbitrariness in the sensitive area of health care.
That is why we envisage the establishment of a new Independent Authority, the Health and Social Services Ombudsman. -
Quality everywhere
- Free choice of doctor
- Easy access to all health and welfare services
- Equal access for all citizens
- Health map, new national planning
- Elimination of inequalities between centre and region
- Single electronic file for each patient
- Single conditions for the operation of the public and private sectors
- Education, training and further training, training ofdoctors and all health professionals
- System of evaluation, quality control and certification of each unit and human resources
- Continuous evaluation of medical staff and health professionals
- Selection and development of staff according to essentially meritocratic criteria
- Strict and reliable control mechanism
- Health and social services advocate
As is well known, health services are divided into three levels: Primary, Secondary and Tertiary Health Care Services.
Primary health care is defined as all health services of a preventive, diagnostic and therapeutic nature for which the patient does not need to stay overnight in a hospital unit.
Primary health care includes two tiers of services, which are not always distinct from each other:
- Primary preventive health care or primary health care.
- The primary provision of diagnostic and therapeutic health services or primary care.
The principle and priority of our programme is to protect health - and therefore to invest in preventive medicine.
Primary Care - Prevention is clearly more efficient and cost-effective than disease management.
After all, everyone agrees that it is better to prevent than to cure.
Unfortunately, this is not the case in our country today.
The truth is that Primary Care - Prevention works poorly.
Its services operate piecemeal, without coordination and guidance, some of them are under-performing due to a lack of necessary staff, and not all of them cover all subjects.
There is a need to establish a national framework of Primary Care and Prevention, which essentially covers the health protection needs of the Greek population.
The Primary Care - Prevention System covers mainly:
- The fight and effort to eliminate the causative factors of the disease (primary prevention) and the early and timely diagnosis of the disease (secondary prevention).
- The practice of preventive medicine and health education of the population.
- Medico-social and epidemiological research.
- occupational medicine, with the specific aim of improving hygiene conditions and minimising occupational diseases and accidents.
- Provision of pre-school and school health services.
- Informing the public on family planning and eugenics, as well as on diseases threatening humanity, such as AIDS.
- Control of environmental pollution.
- Health education. - The
- The provision of Social Care Services in order to address socio-economic and psychological problems observed in individuals or groups and at the same time the protection of people belonging to the so-called vulnerable groups of the population (elderly people, people with chronic diseases, disadvantaged people, drug users, etc.).
- Oral health education and the practice of preventive dentistry through the regular examination of the population, as this will prevent significant health complications, especially in younger age groups, and of course avoid costly treatments that place a significant burden on the insurance system.
For the Primary Care - Prevention System to be effective and integrated, a national planning, radical reorganization and significant strengthening of the services involved in Primary Care - Prevention is needed.
- A General Directorate for Primary Care and Prevention is being set up within the Ministry of Health and Welfare, with the task of national planning, guidance and supervision of the regional units, as well as the creation of their operational framework.
The General Directorate cooperates closely with the relevant departments of the Medical Schools and TEI, the National School of Public Health and the relevant scientific bodies.
- At the regional level, a Directorate for Primary Care and Prevention shall be established.
This Directorate is well organised and staffed with appropriate personnel.
It coordinates the county units and develops a mobile unit for the needs of the region.
- In each county, the services dedicated to Primary Care - Prevention are radically reorganized and fully staffed.
Most Greek citizens experience an unacceptable situation in the field of Primary Care: low quality health services, at IKA - for example - inconvenience, long waiting lists, queues, lack of basic specialties, both in polyclinics and in Health Centres.
The health services of IKA - and, secondarily, of other funds - have been devalued in the minds of the insured, resulting in a large drain of family income to the private health market.
As the situation stands today, this is perfectly normal:
Citizens are deprived of the right to freely choose a doctor, and the deteriorating health services lead those insured with IKA and OGA to resort to private doctors, at their own expense.
The suffering becomes greater when there are emergencies and, ultimately, the lack of an organised system of emergency primary care, unfortunately, even costs human lives.
Each insurance organisation decides its own primary care system to implement, within the framework of a purely insurance-centred primary care system.
Thus, over time, a phenomenon unique in all the countries of the European Union has developed in our country, with the insurance funds producing health services on their own.
In all these countries, the principle applied is that insurance funds buy health services from a system organised and supervised by the state.
The state, responsible for health policy, while it should have defined an institutional framework of obligations for the insurance institutions, is limited to covering the deficits created by the decisions of the insurance funds.
It should be stressed here that the problems, distortions and shortcomings in Primary Care have a strong and negative impact on Secondary Care as well.
The result is low quality health services at very high costs, both in primary and secondary care.
What is changing in Primary Care:
This current situation is no longer working.
What is needed is a radical and comprehensive response to the pathogenesis of the system, not piecemeal measures.
Our programme envisages a new Primary Care system, the basic principle of which is the patient's choice of doctor.
After all, this right is guaranteed, differently in each country, throughout the European Union.
The aim of our programme is: to give all Greeks the freedom to choose their doctor and to make use of the country's entire medical and dental potential.
This is also required by the principle of respect for the free will of every citizen.
To achieve this goal we foresee:
- The establishment of a national collective agreement under which private doctors who accept it can provide their services to those insured by IKA, the State, OAEE and OGA.
The same applies to any other funds wishing to join the scheme.
- The national collective agreement, which is supervised by the Ministry of Health, is signed by all doctors who wish to participate in the system.
Only doctors who do not have any employment relationship with the State, insurance organisations and the wider public sector are entitled to sign.
- Each patient can choose a doctor from the contracted ones.
- The terms of cooperation of doctors, their obligations and their fees are jointly decided by the State, the Panhellenic Medical Association, the Panhellenic Dental Federation and the insurance organisations.
- The establishment of the remuneration of contracted doctors per medical visit and practice.
- Establishment of an electronic medical record for each patient, which is updated under the responsibility of the patient and the doctors who attend and accompany him/her to each medical visit and operation.
Special care for the protection of personal data.
- It is only natural that a rigorous and effective control mechanism must be in place and fully organised in every insurance fund.
- IKA, State, OAEE and OGA insured persons will have the right to freely choose a doctor
- Establishment of a national collective agreement between private doctors and insurance funds
- Any private doctors who wish to do so will be able to sign the contract and participate in the system
- The terms of cooperation are co-decided by the State, the Panhellenic Medical Association, the Hellenic Dental Federation and the Insurance Organizations
- The insured person chooses freely from the total number of contracted doctors
- Establishes the remuneration of contracted doctors per medical visit and per practice
- The entire medical and dental workforce is utilised
- Electronic medical records are introduced for each patient
- A strict and effective control mechanism is organised in each insurance fund
It should be particularly emphasized that the radical change in the system of primary care services with the possibility of choosing a doctor requires a pilot implementation, time for adaptation and, of course, a series of conditions that do not exist today.
That's why we predict:
- Recoding of all medical procedures based on current European and international standards. Complete prohibition of their practice by non-physicians.
- Definition of the necessary medical operations (accompanying operations) included in the medical visit of each specialty and which will not be paid separately, but included in the fee of the visit.
- Costing of medical visits, but also of procedures not included in the visit.
These two measures are considered necessary since, according to current practice, only a quarter of the expenditure in the public sector relates to the cost of visits, with the remainder coming from accompanying operations which are not always necessary.
This can help to achieve a more efficient allocation of resources, reduce costs and improve the remuneration of medical visits.
- A clear description of the obligations of contracted doctors.
Among other things, they are obliged to work "minimum hours" and to be on call regularly, either in emergency centres or in their surgeries, depending on their speciality and the particularities of each region.
They are also required to have home medical visits when necessary.
- Establishment of urban health centres, which are part of the National Health System, operating on a 24-hour basis, mainly to deal with emergencies.
Their mission is also to provide services to special vulnerable groups, the chronically ill, the needy and the uninsured.
They will mainly result from the evolution of part of the current polyclinics of IKA and will be spatially distributed, after a study, in order to meet their mission.
Urban health centres will fill the gap that currently exists in emergency care, but at the same time they will make a decisive contribution to decongesting hospitals, acting as "filters".
This will stop us seeing the familiar images of shame, especially in hospitals on duty.
Most importantly, it will save lives.
Their operation will significantly upgrade not only primary, but also secondary care.
- Upon completion of the implementation of the system, those IKA polyclinics that have not been transformed into urban health centres will no longer be needed and will cease to operate.
Of the IKA doctors, others will opt for the national collective agreement, a significant number will join the National Health System with the labour relations of the ESY doctors for the operation of urban health centres and some will cover the other activities of the insurance institution.
- In the second and final stage of implementation of the system, the institution of the family doctor will also be introduced, who will not be remunerated per medical act, but according to the number of insured persons who choose him/her.
The family doctor will be a general practitioner, a paediatrician or a medical specialist.
The obligations of the family doctor include monitoring the patient's health, guiding the patient and coordinating - whenever necessary - with specialists.
Also, in collaboration with the patient and other doctors, he/she is responsible for updating the electronic medical record.
This is precisely the modern perception of the concept of the family doctor within the needs and the already formed conditions of today's societies.
At this final stage, primary care will be provided equally to everyone, regardless of the insurance provider they belong to.
- All these changes are radical by Greek standards and cannot, of course, be made overnight.
A well thought-out timetable for implementing reforms is needed, but one that is resolutely adhered to.
First of all, the pilot implementation of the selection of a doctor for one year in a county with an urban, semi-urban and rural population is required.
The operational and financial results of the pilot implementation are studied and any corrective changes are made, so that the state can proceed to a universal implementation of the system.
- The pilot implementation will, among other things, lead to the creation of a grid of specific incentives and disincentives for patients and doctors to avoid abuse of the right to choose a doctor.
When there is misuse in the exercise of the right, this will result in the patient sharing the costs and the doctor incurring a financial burden and the termination of the contract for a significant period of time.
Accordingly, incentives for the good use of the right will be introduced.
- Each insured person will be entitled to a certain total number of visits for all doctors of his/her choice, determined on the basis of international standards and the results of the pilot implementation of the system.
If additional visits are needed, the insured person's gradual participation in the cost begins.
This restriction does not apply in cases of chronic or incurable diseases, for which special arrangements are made.
However, all insured persons are not limited in the number of visits to the family doctor, urban health centres, health centres and rural health centres.
A modern Health System must effectively take care of the oral health of citizens, both preventively and therapeutically.
In our country, the planning of dental care was done without any planning and improvisation and sloppiness prevailed.
In the public, OAEE, OGA and IKA insurance organisations, the insured either have no dental care at all or very low quality dental care.
The result is that the vast majority of those insured in these organisations are forced to turn to private care.
Specifically:
- Those insured by the OGA only have primary dental care that is provided in health centres.
- Those insured by the OAEE only for children up to 16 years of age and only for therapeutic procedures.
- People insured by the state have the right to freely choose a dentist, but they are only formally entitled to dental care.
Given the long-standing termination of the relevant contracts by the Dental Federation - combined with the reduction of the prices of dental procedures to unacceptably low levels - this right has effectively been rendered useless.
- IKA policyholders are the only ones who have dental care, albeit usually of poor quality, at the expense of their insurance organisation.
Today, the dental departments of the polyclinics and the orthodontic, paedodontic and prosthodontic units of the Foundation are covered in this field.
However, it is generally agreed that the services offered are of low quality.
According to statistics, only 20-25% use it and the rest prefer to turn to the private sector, at their own expense.
In the new system for dental care, we foresee:
- Insured persons of IKA, OGA and OAEE will be covered for dental care in the same way as today.
- Public health insured persons will have the right to freely choose a dentist for preventive and curative procedures, with a percentage share of the costs.
The free choice is made among dentists who have signed the national collective agreement.
The terms of cooperation of dentists and their fees per operation are jointly decided by the Ministry of Health and Welfare and the Hellenic Dental Federation, after recosting of dental operations.
In addition, directly insured persons will be entitled to an allowance for prosthetic work, which will correspond to a specific amount depending on the nature of the work.
This regulation also applies to those orthodontic cases that are judged by a special scientific committee to be in need of treatment.
- The right of free choice for preventive and therapeutic procedures and with a percentage of participation will be extended to those insured by the IKA, OGA and OAEE.
- In particular, the existing orthodontic, paedodontic and mobile prosthetics units and the relevant laboratories will be kept in operation for IKA insured persons.
- Insured persons of all funds will be able to visit urban health centres and health centres for the treatment of urgent dental cases.
- The ultimate aim is that, at a later stage, what applies to public sector insured persons will also apply to IKA, OGA and OAEE insured persons.
Which organisations will provide Primary Care services
Ultimately, health services in the new Primary Care system, when completed, will be provided by:
The private doctors and dentists who have contracted with the insurance organisations through the national collective agreement and for whom the patient's right of choice will apply.
The contract applies to insured persons insured with the State, IKA, OGA, OAEE and any of the other insurance funds that wish to join this system.
It should be noted that OGA insured persons have the right to choose a doctor for the specialties that are not available in the health centres.
- Urban Health Centres, which will operate on a 24-hour basis.
- The Health Centres and rural health clinics, which will be maintained under the new system. In the Health Centres, shortages of staff and equipment are covered.
- Mobile medical units, where the geographical conditions of the country make this necessary.
- Hospital outpatient clinics, which patients can only visit on referral from urban health centres, health centres, rural health centres or the doctor of their choice.
For the completeness of the system we provide:
- The complete reorganization of the EKAB, which remains an N.P.D.D., with the creation of modern units of rapid patient transport, fully equipped and staffed with the necessary specialized personnel.
- The creation of special mobile units for island and mountain areas.
Today, the situation on our islands is truly disheartening and not befitting a modern country in the European Union.
The picture is, more or less, familiar to everyone.
Hospitals and Health Centres, where they exist, have major shortages of staff and infrastructure and many of them are under-utilised, while the planned visits by doctors are fragmented and ultimately ineffective.
In addition, the system for transporting patients is suffering and, unfortunately, this has been demonstrated in the most dramatic way.
What is changing
In order to provide more effective health services in the island area, we provide:
- Full organization of hospital units in selected islands, so that transporting patients to Athens is not the only solution.
These hospital units will be staffed with the necessary personnel and equipped with the latest equipment.
They will develop all departments including an intensive care unit and a dialysis unit so that they will be able to meet all the needs of secondary care and treatment.
Additional incentives will be provided to staff these hospital units.
- Systematic use of telemedicine, by hospital units and health centres, whose potential is currently under-utilised, while it can be a valuable support for the efforts of doctors on the islands.
- Staffing the health centres with specialist doctors, the necessary nursing staff and providing them with modern equipment so that they can operate as small hospital units.
- Regular visits to the islands by special mobile units.
They will have doctors of various specialties and will be supported by mobile laboratories (microbiology, radiology, etc.).
These visits will be systematic and not piecemeal as is currently the case.
- An efficient system of patient transport, with a complete reorganisation of the ambulance service.
Strengthening the fleet of the EKAB with additional heavy-duty helicopters that can operate in adverse weather conditions that usually prevail in the Aegean Sea.
Secondary health care is defined as the set of diagnostic and therapeutic medical techniques, for the application of which it is necessary for patients to be hospitalised in the hospital - without the need for an overnight stay.
The operational unit of the secondary health care services is the Hospital.
Secondary health services are provided throughout the country by hospitals:
- State hospitals of the ESY, which are staffed by ESY doctors.
- University hospitals, which are staffed by academics and doctors of the ESY.
However, the President of the hospital, the Director of the Medical Service, the President of the Scientific Council and the Directors of the clinics and laboratories are required to be members of the Faculty of Medicine.
- Military, under the Ministry of National Defence, which are staffed by permanent and conscript doctors as well as civilian doctors, with special contracts as required.
- A special scheme which includes those not belonging to the ESY and not in the private sector.
They are staffed by doctors with special contracts, according to the hospital's organisation. -
Private sanatoria
For the more complete and effective organization of secondary health care services, we provide for:
- IKA hospitals shall be transformed into independent state hospitals or hospital branches.
In other words, they cease to be hospitals exclusively for those insured by this organisation, but are now part of the network of state hospitals.
- Two purely university hospitals are being created, one in Athens and one in Thessaloniki, which will offer health services, education and research work.
Today, the university clinics of the Medical Schools of Athens and Thessaloniki are housed in various hospitals that also have clinics of the ESY, while there is no complete university hospital (the Aeginitio and Aretaio are specialised hospitals).
In Athens, given that the Haidari hospital will be a university hospital, the issue is not urgent, although there will still be a need to create a pure university hospital near the Medical School.
But in Thessaloniki it is urgent, because there is no exclusive university hospital.
Either AHEPA or Hippokratio will be modernised and the necessary extensions will be made to make it a pure university.
In the other medical schools, there are already modern hospitals which were built from the beginning as university hospitals and which house all the university clinics.
The organisation of the modern hospital care system that we propose is based on the following main pillars:
- Hospitals will provide only secondary care - and not primary care, as at present.
- The hospitals will not only provide only secondary care, but only primary care and not primary care.
This will relieve hospitals of operations that do not correspond to them, improve the quality of services and reduce costs.
- With the implementation of the system of free choice of doctor, the insured person (in a fund contracted under the national collective agreement) can visit outpatient clinics or be admitted to hospital only when referred to it by a doctor under the new system or by urban health centres or health centres.
Excluding, of course, emergency cases, accidents, necessary re-examinations after hospitalisation, visits to special reference clinics, etc.
- The patient is always accompanied by his/her electronic medical record, in which his/her condition, symptoms and the need for referral or hospitalisation are described in detail.
- The operation of urban health centres, as mentioned in the chapter on primary care, will help to relieve hospitals of emergency cases.
What are the benefits of the changes
What are the benefits of the proposed changes?
With the implementation of the above:
a) The excessive number of patients for hospital outpatient departments is reduced
b) Chronic cases are no longer baptized "acute" in order to overcome waiting lists
c) Unnecessary laboratory tests and other medical procedures are reduced The
result is the decongestion of hospitals, the improvement of their efficiency and quality of services and, of course, the reduction of their operating costs.
Additional ancillary changes
For the better functioning of the Secondary Health Care Services, in addition to the above, we provide:
- Preparation of a new health charter, based on which existing hospitals will be renovated where possible and new hospitals will be built in the few cases where necessary.
In Thessaloniki, there is a need to build a children's hospital, since it is unacceptable that the whole of Northern Greece lacks a hospital of this category.
- Control of all hospital units in the country that are housed in buildings that are decades old.
Accurate recording of the current situation in terms of seismicity, fire safety, fire protection, as well as the necessary rules on radiation protection and general hygiene of the site.
Based on this inventory, the necessary interventions will be made to modernise the infrastructure of the hospitals.
Today, after all, there are still hospitals that are underperforming.
Hospitals that do not respect basic health and safety rules cannot continue to operate unless these problems are addressed.
Responsible health policy means achieving the greatest possible social benefit without wasting taxpayers' money.
The aim is to increase efficiency and improve the quality of services.
A prerequisite is, among other things, to make significant interventions in the operation and management of hospitals.
- That is why we foresee:
- Decongestion of hospitals from primary care cases.
This will be achieved through the radical changes we foresee in Primary Care and the new way of admitting patients to hospitals.
Thus, hospitals will function exclusively as secondary care centres, their efficiency and smooth functioning will be greatly improved and the third world ranch phenomenon will be eliminated.
- The hospitals will be subjected to continuous quality control of the services provided.
They are also subjected to a systematic and continuous evaluation of their financial management, based on objective cost-productivity criteria.
The aim is to improve health services while reducing hospital days.
The aim is to transform hospitals into healthy and efficient organisations, to make hospitals a high quality service for the citizen and, at the same time, to relieve the multiple indirect and direct burdens of the exorbitant public debt.
- Extend the institution of one-day hospitalisation to all hospitals with specific and clear specifications for the public and private sectors.
- Establishment of the institution of home hospitalisation and comprehensive development of the network of rehabilitation and recovery centres outside hospitals.
The systematic implementation of these measures, as well as the institution of one-day hospitalisation, will reduce hospitalisation time, with the natural result of serving more patients and improving the operation of hospitals. -
Creation of organised centres specialising in a specific subject, with the aim of becoming integrated units with a nationwide scope (e.g. a pneumology centre is being set up in an environmentally polluted area);
- Creation of trauma centres, properly spatially distributed.
In the first phase, at least two such centres will be established as a priority in urban hospitals along the highway.
- Strengthening of Dental Surgery in selected hospitals and creation of Slit and Oral Surgery Centres in Athens and Thessaloniki linked to the Dental Schools.
- Addressing, with priority and consistency, the thorny problem of the shortage of Intensive Care Units in our country.
The number and quality of the services provided by the NHS in each country reflects its level of health culture. Unfortunately, our country's achievements in this area are meagre.
This is why the shortfalls in logistical infrastructure and qualified staff will be rapidly filled.
At the same time, beds are being increased, so that we gradually reach the EU level, starting with those hospitals that have more than 200 beds, but also those in island and remote areas.
In addition, the implementation of a training programme will create the necessary nursing and paramedical staff.
In order to improve the infrastructure of hospitals, we foresee the gradual implementation of the following measures:
- Abolition of multi-bedded hospital rooms, so that each hospital has only 1 to 4 beds.
- Each hospital room should have the necessary medical and hotel equipment and air conditioning system.
- Large in-patient units should have an emergency department, intensive care and intensive care units, a complete radiology department with CT scanner, MRI scanner, ultrasound scanners and other equipment for the treatment of all cases.
- Emphasis is placed on cleanliness, functionality and improving the aesthetics of the premises.
Today it is a fact that the poor infrastructure of public hospitals, the level of their operation, their congestion and the low quality of their services force many insured people to resort to private hospitals at their own expense.
This trend must be reversed.
Public hospitals have both the medical technological equipment and the quality of the medical workforce that can support the reversal of this climate.
With the implementation of our proposals: the decongestion of hospitals, their proper functioning and the improvement of their infrastructure, the level of health services they offer will be greatly improved.
We also aim to make public hospitals competitive and to attract insured persons, exclusively or on an ancillary basis, from the private sector.
The current institution of Hospital Governors, and indeed the way it has been implemented, has proved inadequate, resulting in serious problems in their operation and performance.
We are introducing a new form of Hospital Management, because we believe that it is the only one capable and necessary to lead the Hospitals to the new requirements and to do so rapidly.
Based on all of the above, we predict:
- Coexistence of a small Board of Directors and a Health Manager who participates as a rapporteur in the Board but without voting rights.
Recommends issues to the Board and is responsible for operational planning and its implementation, in accordance with the decisions of the Board.
It has the executive powers defined by law.
Every two years, his work is judged and evaluated.
- Replacement of the current management boards by regular Boards of Directors, since it is unacceptable for the same persons to be auditors and auditees.
The Boards of Directors have 7 members.
They are composed of the President and four other members appointed by the leadership of the Ministry and elected representatives of the scientific staff and employees.
- The position of Manager will be filled by persons with high scientific qualifications and extensive experience, particularly in health care facilities in both the public and private sectors.
They will be full-time, full-time positions, with salaries commensurate with the capacity of the hospital.
- This we believe is the most efficient model of hospital management.
Over time and depending on the size of the Hospital, it may be necessary to recruit additional staff.
The distinction between the roles of the Board of Directors and the Manager is clear and is not far from the way in which the Boards of Directors of large organisations or those of Companies act and move.
What is today's reality
It is a fact that there is mismanagement and waste of resources, both human and financial.
The reasons are specific:
- There are significant staff shortages, particularly in the specialisations related to financial services and modern technology, and existing staff are not being used rationally.
- Procurement is often carried out either unplanned and without competitive tendering, or through 'photo' tenders.
- There is no correspondence between supplies and the actual needs of the hospitals and there is no control of the balance of supplies and consumption by patients.
- There is a significant number of unnecessary laboratory and clinical tests.
- The balance sheets are often fictitious, and no accounting is carried out in each hospital, so that it is not possible to draw even rudimentary conclusions about what the total costs are and how waste can be reduced.
And, of course, there is no comparative data that would allow us to check.
- In addition, the funding of hospitals is significantly delayed, with the result that supplies are ultimately subject to a 20-30% increase due to late repayment.
This is also an additional "window" for illegal transactions.
Ultimately, if the Ministry of Health is asked today what the real situation is in any hospital, it will not be able to answer.
For no hospital is there a complete picture.
This is an unacceptable situation which must be addressed immediately in order to save resources and at the same time improve the quality of services.
Characteristic of the situation prevailing in hospitals is that while their debt of 1 billion Euros (340 billion dirhams) was settled with medium-term bank loans after the adoption of a provision that legalized illegal contracts that had been deemed unpayable by the Court of Auditors, today, the new debts of hospitals have exceeded 1.2 billion Euros (400 billion dirhams).
And while the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Development (which is responsible for the planning of part of the hospitals' supplies) and the insurance organizations remain mere spectators, the hospitals' debts are increasing uncontrollably and the taxpaying citizen "pays the bills".
Studies carried out at the University of Athens have shown that the cost of inefficient operation of the hospital system amounts to about 30% of the total operating system.
There is no magic formula for dealing with this situation.
The system needs radical changes, which need to be made rapidly.
That's why we predict:
- A full inventory of the true picture of all hospitals in the area of responsibility of the Ministry of Health and Welfare. Systematic and diligent investigation of the causes of the waste of resources that led to the overcharging of hospitals.
- Final settlement of hospital debts.
- Full use of modern technology in the operation of hospitals.
New forms of organisation of hospitals, in particular of financial services, and the introduction of the integrated M.I.S. and L.I.S. systems.
Through modern technology, hospitals are connected to each other and to the Ministry.
This will provide a complete and continuous picture of the financial activities of each hospital and at the same time allow comparison between similar operations. -
Radical overhaul of all hospital financial services:
- implementation of a single accounting plan
- introduction of the double-entry accounting system
- compulsory preparation and publication of a balance sheet and specific accounting data each year, within the first quarter of the following year.
- Strengthen the financial services and the accounting, procurement and warehousing departments with appropriate human resources.
- Determine, on the basis of all the above and to the best possible approximation, the actual cost of daily hospitalisation.
The "closed hospital fee" which is currently paid by the insurance funds to hospitals is far below the actual hospital fee.
This system leads hospitals to large deficits and a constant deterioration of their services to citizens.
The important thing is that the actual public expenditure is not reduced by the deviation from the actual hospitalisation rate, because the amounts not paid by the insurance institutions due to the undervalued closed hospitalisation rate are then paid by the state years late.
But there is a need to calculate the real costs and to bring these two figures closer together in order to create the possibility of a real consolidation of the system.
On the way hospitals are funded we provide:
- In a first stage, replacing the current closed hospital fee with the introduction of a "new type of hospital fee".
The new hospital card retains the characteristics of the closed hospital card, but includes the basic modern diagnostic and therapeutic medical methods that are considered necessary in each case.
This will bring us closer to the real costs.
The result will be to clean up the system, since we will now know the real situation of the health branches of the funds, the necessary measures will be taken and their possible deficits will be covered by the state.
- Gradual implementation of the method of financing based on homogeneous diagnostic categories, (D.R.G.), e.g. cardiac surgery, orthopaedics, etc.
Thus, funding will be per disease and not per hospitalisation.
The method of financing with homogeneous diagnostic categories is being implemented and has been rapidly expanded in all European countries.
It has the advantage, among other things, that it is the most comprehensive method of evaluating the activity of each nursing unit and individual departments.
It is worth noting the current paradox: all insurance organisations, under the responsibility of the State, use this method of financing for certain conditions in the private sector, but not in public hospitals.
For example, a cardiac surgery in a private hospital is paid for by the health insurance fund at €10,000, while the same surgery in a public hospital costs €75 per day, i.e. a total of around €1,000.
- Immediate implementation in public hospitals of the method of financing//|s based on homogeneous diagnostic categories for the conditions currently in force in the private sector.
Gradually, the system will be extended to other categories of diseases.
What are the benefits of the proposed changes
With the change in the funding system, hospitals will both receive significant revenue, but some of this revenue will be distributed to the staff involved in the operation.
This provides an important incentive for efficiency and effectiveness.
In addition, the method of financing by homogeneous categories of diseases facilitates the conclusion of contracts with private insurance providers and the conclusion of transnational agreements for the hospitalisation of patients from other countries.
It is a common finding and has been acknowledged by both the political leadership of the Ministry of Health and Welfare and the Ministry of National Economy that there is a great waste of resources in the hospitals of the NHS.
Indeed, in the explanatory memorandum for the adoption of the last law on the procurement of health care units of the NHS, this waste was attributed to the following reasons:
Firstly, delay in the preparation of the procurement programme and delay in conducting the relevant tenders.
Secondly, the lack of clear and common standards and the existence of circumvention of the rules in tenders.
Thirdly, delays in paying suppliers, resulting in a large increase in the cost of supplies.
Fourth, exploitation of hospitals by suppliers who are oligopolies and "share" the market.
But this admission only told half the truth.
A bill was passed, of course, ostensibly to resolve the procurement issues in the health units, but all it did was to further widen the deficits in the hospitals and reinforce the various sources of waste, such as:
- The elimination of any form of control mechanism and effective control.
- The development of institutions of opacity at all levels of action.
- Impunity for those responsible and the political cover-up of irregularities.
- The maintenance of outdated accounting monitoring systems.
- Serious shortages of competent and experienced staff, particularly in the accounting, procurement and storage departments.
- Delays in the disbursement of state budget funds.
- Deliberate delays in the payment of suppliers in order to: on the one hand, force suppliers to 'trade' and, on the other hand, to eliminate certain 'undesirable' suppliers and ultimately discourage and remove them from tenders.
This creates closed supply circuits.
- The procurement of materials, either by awarding them by means of procurement fragmentation, or without new tenders, by extending old tenders, revisions, additions, etc.
To address all these problems, the procurement system is being changed.
That's why we predict:
The procurement of fixed items of medical, technical and hotel equipment and certain other items, which will be precisely defined in a ministerial decision, will no longer be carried out through local tenders, but by a central body through an international tender.
The hospitals remain responsible for the procurement of goods and services, which cannot be the subject of a general tender.
- A Central Procurement Committee is established at the Ministry of Health and Welfare, fully staffed with appropriate personnel and equipped with modern technology, and reporting directly to the Minister of Health.
- All hospitals in the country shall submit to the Ministry an annual needs plan, which shall be drawn up on the basis of their operating conditions and the previous year's report.
Under this programme, the Central Procurement Commission conducts the international tenders, as provided for by the decisions of the Minister of Health.
- These tenders will be based on clear specifications, will be public and international in nature and will be conducted in simple and transparent procedures in order to avoid circumvention of the tendering rules and any conditions of oligopoly.
What we gain from the new procurement system
With all the above, the procurement system is largely consolidated and, in addition, there is a clear picture of the actual needs of hospitals, which are obliged to rational planning and accounting.
It also facilitates comparison between hospitals and therefore their monitoring and evaluation.
What changes in the supplies that hospitals will carry out on their own
In terms of supplies carried out by hospitals, we foresee:
- Procurement will be carried out on the basis of a programme drawn up in good time and in such a way as not to delay the necessary tenders and to avoid outsourcing.
- Full organisation and strengthening of the accounting, procurement and warehousing services with the necessary staff and resources.
- All procurement should be carried out through transparent procedures and public tenders.
The tenders include the majority of certain items that part of the current hospital administration calls "micro-procurement", in order to stop the awarding of these so-called "micro-procurement" contracts, which currently cover a significant percentage of the hospitals' procurement programme.
This will be facilitated by hospitals by providing storage space for consumables.
- To address emergency and special needs, supplies of goods will be allowed without competitive tendering, but a specific limit (ceiling) per item and per quarter or year will be set.
The limit will be proportional to the number of beds or the total value of the hospital's supplies.
- Strict control to correlate the quantities purchased with the quantities administered - charged to patients.
- Audit mechanisms will be strengthened, and will examine and analyse the operating cost data of each hospital and each category of cases.
- The necessary credits will be secured and the money disbursed in a timely manner to avoid delays in repayment that result in price inflations.
In addition, this and a number of other measures will aim to create a climate of healthy competition and, of course, to encourage many more suppliers or agents to participate in the tenders in question.
- For laboratory reagents, which form a significant part of the hospitals' procurement programme, modern management procedures will be introduced.
(Such as, for example, contracts for the supply of equipment-analysts and reagents or consumables charged to the hospital per medical procedure performed.)
- The requisitioning of high-cost materials will be examined by a special department of the Central Procurement Committee and will depend on the number of patients using the material in question.
New Procurement Control System
In order to ensure the more efficient operation and control of the procurement system, we provide for:
- Creation of an information bank, at the Central Procurement Committee, where data on the acquisition prices of goods and the comparison of prices of the Greek market with international markets are collected from all hospitals.
- Utilization of the possibilities of modern technology (e.g. installation of a network) for the direct and continuous monitoring of the progress of each tender, the issuance of comparative data for the procurement of similar materials and, in general, the correlation of procurement with the budgets of the hospitals.
What is today's reality
The latest changes made in the ESY have been limited, in essence, to the creation of the costly PESYPs and the extension of full and exclusive employment to university doctors and the possibility for ESY doctors and university doctors to practise private medicine in evening clinics within hospitals.
The practice has shown that private clinics in hospitals in the afternoons violate their public character, create obstacles to their smooth operation and abolish in practice the equal access of citizens to them.
In addition, this measure leaves "windows" for circumvention, such as medical procedures in the morning which are deliberately moved to the afternoon, with a heavy additional financial burden on the citizen.
As far as the much publicised increase in hospital resources is concerned, in practice it turned out to be a "treasure trove".
The compulsory full-time and exclusive employment relationship for all hospital doctors not only did not serve the citizen, as initially claimed, but instead led to the commercialisation of health care and distortions and favoured the development of the informal economy of health care (the well-known "envelope").
Above all, it must be stressed that it is unacceptable for a favoured state to have what is happening with the working relations of hospital doctors.
The law is neither formally nor practically implemented and, unfortunately, this is happening with the knowledge of the leadership of the Ministry of Health.
The law remains an empty letter.
Today, neither full-time employment (most people work, unregulated, on a part-time basis) nor exclusive employment (many people run illegal private practices, which are not taxed).
This situation must stop.
There is a need for everything to finally be done transparently and according to rules.
Only in this way, not only will the right conditions for doctors to practice their profession be created, but also - ultimately - the quality of the services they provide to the citizen will be truly improved.
What is changing
For the labour relations of the medical workforce we predict:
- Evening private clinics within hospitals are abolished for both university and ESY doctors.
This measure, as well as the general organisation of the operation of Primary Care and its relationship with Secondary Care, as already developed in our programme, no longer leaves room for the hospital doctor to use the hospital for the practice of private medicine.
- Two categories of doctors and dentists in the ESY sector are established, with the possibility to choose their own employment relationship: a) full-time and exclusive employment and b) full-time employment.
Full-time and full-time employees do not have the right to practice private medicine and have additional obligations, which have the effect of increasing the operating time of hospitals for the benefit of the citizen.
For this reason, they have a higher salary than the other category.
Full-time employees are required to work full-time and participate in the on-call schedule.
They have the right to practice private medicine, outside the hospital and of course outside working hours, but they do not have the right to contract with the insurance organisations participating in the National Collective Agreement and cannot cooperate with private clinics.
- All the above applies to university doctors and they retain their training and research allowance.
- Compliance with the rules within the hospital, in particular the working hours, is the responsibility of the doctors themselves, the director of the clinic and the administration.
The timetable will be specific and must be strictly adhered to and its violation will result in sanctions not only for the medical staff, but also for those who are responsible for adhering to it.
In addition, severe sanctions will be imposed on private hospitals that collaborate with universities and doctors of the ESY.
- Depending on the needs of hospitals, the institution of associate doctors with special employment contracts is established. - The
remuneration of medical staff will be supplemented by:
- A productivity bonus calculated according to internationally recognised measurement indicators.
It is noted that this bonus will be given to all hospital employees.
- From additional payment for medical operations financed by private insurance.
The State has an obligation to provide all citizens with high quality health services.
At the same time, however, private initiative can also be active in the health sector.
However, since health is a social good, the private sector should operate according to rules and modern scientific standards, which the State is responsible for supervising and faithfully implementing.
Unfortunately, in our country these self-evident truths are still the issue.
The current situation has the following characteristics:
- The public sector, wasteful and inefficient, is the big patient.
As mentioned in the previous chapter, many insured people avoid public hospitals and prefer the private sector, at their own expense.
- The private sector is constantly expanding its activities, exploiting the gap created by the deterioration of the public sector. -
In terms of private spending on health care, Greeks are the first among EU citizens with a spending rate of 44% (OOSA 2003)
- Supervision and control are absent and there are no uniform rules and standards for the public and private sectors.
What is changing
In order to offer better health services to the citizen, health services in the secondary care of the private sector should be used, but with rules and control.
What is changing
- Modification and modernization of the legal framework referring to the logistical infrastructure, which will be uniform for Public Hospitals and Private Hospitals.
- Checking all private health clinics in the country to see if they meet the required hygiene and safety standards.
Private clinics that do not respect these protection conditions cannot continue to operate unless their problems are addressed.
- Establishment of a modern operating organisation for private clinics with a detailed record of their obligations and the number of medical, nursing and other staff.
- Continuous monitoring of the quality of health services and the operation of private clinics.
Our aim is for all private hospitals - including those that today give the image of clandestine nursing homes and "disability" pensions - to adapt to modern requirements, to operate in a complementary way to the public sector and to serve the community as a whole.
- Provide incentives for the conversion of private treatment centres into physical medicine and rehabilitation centres with specific standards.
This means that without any financial burden the hospital product produced could be improved by 30%.
That's why we predict:
The Agricultural Sector is not just an economic activity that is compared to other sectors of the economy.
The agricultural sector has a broader character, since apart from its economic dimensions it has a direct link with the natural, social, cultural and historical environment and with the way of life in most of the territory.
Ensuring a satisfactory level of development in rural areas and providing quality food in healthy conditions at affordable prices for the consumer requires radical changes in development strategy and food policy.
The accumulated problems in the agricultural sector in recent years have created an extremely unfavourable situation which is a burden on the economy and threatens the social cohesion of entire regions.
Our country urgently needs a new agricultural policy that will create a strong productive base in rural areas, capable of feeding the desired regional development, economic diversification and social cohesion.
The huge inflows from the EU were spent without any real developmental effect and the agricultural income is still based to an excessive percentage (around 45%) directly or indirectly on precarious subsidies and income support.
The biggest problem of our agriculture today is the lack of competitiveness and the loss of markets which means loss of income.
This is the reason for the continuous deterioration of the trade balance of agricultural products, which to the simple observer is evident from the dominance of imported products on the shelves of food stores and even in popular markets.
The situation would be even worse without the subsidies from the Common Agricultural Policy and without the cheap labour of economic migrants, which partially compensate for the weaknesses in the cost and technological level of production.
The future of the agricultural sector looks bleak if the unrealistic, contradictory and visionless agricultural policy of the PASOK governments continues.
Our vision is the reconstruction of the Greek agricultural sector driven by a dynamic agriculture, organised on a business basis, applying modern technology, both at the level of production and at the level of processing and marketing of agricultural products.
An agriculture attractive to investment initiatives, capable of competing in the internal and external markets.
Greek agricultural products should dominate the domestic market again and regain the lost ground in the EU and world markets.
The key to growth is the substantial improvement of the international competitiveness of our agricultural production and its adaptability to changing market conditions and consumer demands.
Our programme gives priority to the production of quality products, with high added value, safe for the health of consumers, using modern production methods.
Emphasis will be placed on the application of environmentally friendly methods (sustainable agriculture, integrated agriculture, ecological agriculture).
Greece has the necessary natural resources and suitable climatic conditions and therefore a comparative advantage in many high quality and value-added agricultural products, in which it can specialise internationally.
However, in order to get our agriculture out of the vicious circle of underdevelopment, the Greek farmer must be properly trained and become a modern professional.
The traditional form of organisation of production cannot survive in the fiercely competitive conditions of globalisation and European integration.
New technologies, adequate professional knowledge and skills, and efficient structures in the production, processing and marketing of agricultural products are needed.
Courageous measures are needed to target the core of agricultural production, i.e. the farm (enterprise).
Without competent farmers and without efficient farms, Greek agriculture will shrink.
We believe in individual initiative and have confidence in the abilities of young farmers and their will to create modern agricultural enterprises, provided they are properly trained and have the necessary technical and scientific support.
There are already several encouraging examples.
The main objective of the programme is to create an effective system of support for farmers, especially young people, in their efforts to establish, set up and operate their farms effectively on a modern business basis.
The support system will consist of a combination of public and non-public institutions and bodies, which will provide the farmer with the necessary means, knowledge, information, infrastructure and organisational structures.
The current reality is that the Ministry of Agriculture, with the administrative disorganization that characterizes the entire Public Sector, with its anarchy and partisanship, does not meet the needs of the farmer for the implementation of a modern development policy.
The entire mechanism of the Ministry, central and regional, is almost exclusively concerned with the distribution of EU subsidies and aid, without any other substantial work.
Thousands of remarkable geotechnical scientists have become inactive and have been turned into routine bureaucrats.
The same goes for the Agricultural Cooperatives.
After the party's frenzy and their over-indebtedness to ATE, most cooperatives fell into inactivity and the cooperative movement, as an institution, was badly wounded.
There are few cooperative organisations with significant productive activity today.
A new start is needed.
What is needed are new ideas, the reconstruction of the Ministry of Agriculture, the consolidation of cooperative organisations, but also new institutions to support farmers, free from the burdens of the recent past and the weaknesses of the public sector.
Today the National Democratic Party has the political will and a modern agricultural programme which, if implemented, will put the Agricultural Sector back on a growth track.
The basic principles and objectives of our programme are:-
Improving the agricultural income through the production of quality products, competitive in the domestic and international market.
- Achieving sustainable development by protecting natural resources and applying environmentally friendly production methods.
- Ensuring that consumers are provided with quality foodstuffs of high added value in line with demand.
- Ensuring social cohesion by actively tackling poverty and insecurity.
- Ensuring that the country's rural areas do not lag behind in terms of development and prosperity and that they become attractive places for housing, investment, economic activity and leisure.
After more than twenty years of implementation of the Common Agricultural Policy and despite the huge inflow of Community funds, Greek agriculture is in a state of stagnation and faces the risk of shrinkage and regression.
Agriculture has been the sector of the economy with the best prospects since our country's accession to the EOK.
According to reliable forecasts, before accession, the Common Agricultural Policy would have ensured higher prices and subsidies for Greek agricultural products and satisfactory income support for farmers.
Furthermore, the Agricultural Sector would be structurally improved and modernised institutionally and technologically with Community aid, in order to improve rural development and rural development.
Greek agricultural products, especially those characterised as Mediterranean, would find their way to the consumer markets of Central and Northern Europe and the trade balance of agricultural products would improve significantly, to the benefit of farmers and the national economy.
Unfortunately, these expectations were not met.
On the contrary, the agricultural sector is currently facing serious problems.
All the governments of the PASOK since 1981 until today bear full responsibility for this situation, since they have not exploited even in the slightest the enormous possibilities given by the EU for the restructuring of crops, the improvement of infrastructure and the technological modernization of Greek agriculture.
Fortunately, the PASOK's threat to pull the country out of the EOK was not carried out.
He forgot the slogans such as "Athens prices, not Brussels prices", "out of the EOK" etc. and dealt with the dissipation of resources by the Community for party purposes, without bringing about a developmental result in agriculture.
The farmers were misinformed and deceived into believing that the EOK would support them forever to produce products they did not need (landfills) or products with much higher production costs compared to other countries.
No one ever told them that this could not be done and that they would have to improve and technologically modernise their farms.
To produce products in which the country has a comparative advantage and which have better market prospects.
To improve the yields and quality of their products, as well as the way they are marketed, to reduce costs, to establish themselves in the domestic market and to conquer foreign markets.
The great opportunity for the modernization of our agriculture from the accession to the E.E. was largely lost.
- Rural income remains at half the EU average, while a significant proportion of the rural population lives below the poverty line. - The
regions of our country which rely mainly on the agricultural sector are among the poorest in the EU
- Gross agricultural product has been stagnating or declining for many years.
- The balance of trade in agricultural products has become heavily in deficit, reaching an unprecedented deficit of EUR 1,84 billion (GRD 627 billion) in 2002.
- The internal market is flooded with imported food and other agricultural products.
- Agricultural products of Greek origin are rarely found on European markets, while the cultivation of traditional exportable products has declined dramatically.
Finally, the structural problems of farms worsened, instead of improving, and institutions such as the Agricultural Cooperatives, which were the mainstay of agriculture, were diverted from their purpose, became overburdened and fell into inactivity.
The uprisings of farmers in recent years, which have been violently manifested by the occupation of national roads and other acts of protest, indicate the existence of a serious problem in Greek agriculture.
The problem is essentially a developmental and essentially income-related one.
In other words, agricultural incomes no longer provide rural households, as in the past, with a socially acceptable standard of living and the uncertainty about the future of subsidies is fuelling the crisis.
However, the essence of the agricultural problem is not only a matter of prices and subsidies, but a matter of institutional reconstruction, technological change, both to reduce costs and to increase competitiveness and adaptability to demand developments.
In addition, Greek farmers are now witnessing the loss of the last major opportunity for technological reconstruction offered by the 3rd CSF. Although the government has allocated insufficient funds for the Agricultural Sector, the absorption of these amounts is minimal.
Of the 36 measures of the "Rural Development-Rural Reconstruction" Programme, only 6 measures are currently showing substantial absorption, while the remaining 30 measures show no or minimal absorption, despite the fact that half of the Programme's implementation period has passed.
Similar problems can be observed in the Fisheries programme.
The loss of resources from the second CSF is well known.
The government has shown, over the years, an inability to defend Greek products in the EU with disastrous consequences, and an inability to exploit the opportunities for the reorganization of agriculture and the reconstruction of the structures offered by the European Union.
He understood the most important factor of any productive system, which is man, and the creation of human capital, which is the surest way to achieve a high rate of growth.
It sought to maximise the income from the Agricultural Fund and often encouraged corruption, which today has reached uncontrolled proportions.
It tried to blame the problems of Greek agriculture on third parties, the CAP, GATT and the EU, while carefully hiding its own weaknesses.
Even today it hides the real situation from the Greek farmer.
The present situation is characterised by:-
The dismantling of state services, the removal of agronomists from their role as advisers to the farmer, the dismantling of the mechanisms for transferring technology to the production units.
- The virtual abandonment of all forms of education, training and information for farmers.
- The production of products that do not meet demand and the lack of standardisation and certification.
- The production of low value-added products that do not exploit their quality characteristics, and a number of other major and minor omissions and shortcomings.
To all of the above must be added the long delays in the payment of subsidies and compensation.
Unfortunately, today we have reached a point where the scope for boosting agricultural incomes by demanding higher prices for products under the CAP and higher subsidies from the EU or from national resources is meagre.
It is certain that, with the revision of the CAP and the prevalence of international competition, the situation for many products will deteriorate. We are currently faced with a revision of the CAP which finds Greek agriculture unprepared.
The loss of time and resources to improve structures and restructure crops over the years is "criminal".
The core of the problem of Greek agriculture today is the lack of competitiveness.
There is a sharp deterioration in the trade balance, loss of markets and specialisation in low quality and value-added products.
The main causes of the problem, which require an immediate solution, are the destruction of support structures and technologically outdated structures.
In any discussion with farmers we find cries of anguish, for lack of information, support, orientation, education, training.
A systematic effort, with knowledge and arguments, is needed to support the interests of Greek farmers in the competent bodies of the EU.
In addition, resources from the Community Funds and from the third CSF must be used.
However, the solution to the agricultural problem is our national cause and will come from the reconstruction of institutions, technological change and integrated development.
The solution does not lie in higher prices and product subsidies, since the margins are small, but in the substantial improvement of competitiveness, through technological modernisation and structural adjustment of Greek agriculture.
The solution can come through the reconstruction of support and technological change structures, information mechanisms, which will enable farmers to be productive and take advantage of opportunities.
In this difficult effort the farmers need the active support and guidance of the State.
The increasingly competitive environment in Europe and in the world requires that the foundations be laid for a competitive agricultural economy, capable of supporting a strong development effort of the country, but also of achieving economic and social cohesion, especially in disadvantaged and sensitive areas.
The current revision of the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP), which was decided in December 2000 at the Berlin Summit, is in the final stage of discussion, under the pressure of the circumstances created on the one hand by the problems of the enlargement of the EU with the ten new countries and on the other hand by the preparation of the EU's positions in the negotiations on agricultural products within the World Trade Organisation (WTO).
The directions of the revision are mainly three:
- Gradual decoupling of support from the level of production.
- Strengthening the 2nd pillar of the CAP, i.e. rural development.
- Emphasis on product quality and consumer safety.
Our country cannot stop the process of revising the CAP, which is under constant pressure from internal and external factors (budget, enlargement, negotiations of the PDB).
However, with proper preparation of positions, it can influence the direction of decisions and ensure a smooth course for Greek products.
Unfortunately, the Government was not properly prepared, even though the decision for the review was taken in 2000.
Its inaction and inertia resulted in the loss of valuable time.
There is no doubt that the planning, programming and strategy for the development of the agricultural sector must be based on the CAP framework.
It is the government, however, that has the responsibility of proposing and handling the issue of the revision of the CAP.
It is also the government that is responsible for implementing a broader economic policy, including agricultural policy.
The government is trying to convince farmers that the impact of the revision will be minimal (assurances by the Prime Minister).
But this is wrong, because, among other things, the size of the revision for Mediterranean products is unknown at the moment.
The discussed strengthening of the second pillar of the CAP, i.e. rural development and the pursuit of product quality and safety, is a step in the right direction.
We believe, however, that the funding of the 2nd pillar actions should not only be at the expense of the 1st pillar, which is to support farmers' prices and income.
The Government made the mistake, firstly, of not reacting strongly in support of the above position and secondly, of dealing with the Committee's proposals for a partial revision of the CAP with lukewarmness.
That is, to do the review for the northern products and leave the Mediterranean products pending.
This is a mistake, because after September, when the summit of the POE takes place, the European Union is likely to be in a worse position.
It is also worth noting that the Commission's proposals include a significant reduction in the subsidy for durum wheat.
These proposals, combined with the Commission's proposals on oil and sheep and goat meat, will have a negative impact on our country, because they constitute a basic source of income for farmers who exploit mountainous, semi-mountainous and poor soils.
Regardless of the outcome of the revision of the CAP, however, it is imperative that we seek to create a competitive agriculture as soon as possible, whose products must have qualitative and commercial characteristics that make them competitive in the domestic and international markets.
The increase in agricultural income must come mainly from increasing the competitiveness and marketability of products and broadening the production base, with the production of high quality and high value-added products.
Our exports should not be the raw material that others use in their own exports, presenting them as their own products.
The main axis of our programme is the creation of modern, competitive farms, in an effort to produce high quality products that meet the developments in demand.
Improving the incomes of our farmers can come from increasing productivity and making high quality agricultural products available to the consumer.
Our aim is for our agricultural products to be marketed and exported in standardised, certified, high value-added and, where possible, with a designation of origin.
Today, more than any other period, deep cuts and structural changes are needed that will lead to sustainable economic and social development in rural areas.
Greek agriculture today lacks the endogenous forces to adapt quickly and effectively to the new conditions of the Common Agricultural Policy and international competition.
The most important negative factors are:
- Institutional disorganization, the most important being that of the Ministry of Agriculture.
Thus, important structures of information and technological change were weakened, because they became bureaucratic mechanisms of subsidies.
- The ageing of the rural population.
The old age of farmers is a barrier to technological change and entrepreneurship.
- The insufficient professional and technical knowledge of farmers is a major constraint to increasing productivity and restructuring of crops.
- The lack of integrated rural development programmes.
- failure to make use of the resources and opportunities offered by Community programmes.
The requirements of a modern farm in terms of professional and technical knowledge and management skills are much higher than those acquired by our farmers in the traditional way.
The formal agricultural education provided in our country is minimal, while efforts at vocational training in the workplace or in specialised educational institutions have been insufficient and without substantial results.
This does not mean, of course, that there are no modern and well-organised farms.
But the number of these farms is too small to change the overall picture, which is discouraging.
Greek agriculture alone cannot modernise and adapt to the new conditions and cannot expect substantial assistance from the existing state services for the implementation of agricultural policy in practice and from the other bodies supporting agricultural activity (Cooperatives, ATE, specialised organisations).
The question arises: is our agriculture doomed to succumb completely to the excessive forces of competition and to shrink significantly, or is there a way out of this impasse?
Our answer is unequivocal.
And of course there are.
Certain conditions are necessary for the exit of our agriculture from the current deadlocks.
These conditions constitute the basic guidelines of our agricultural policy, which permeate our entire programme.
In particular, it needs:
- Institutional and organisational restructuring.
The radical reorganization and modernization of the institutions and institutions supporting the rural economy and the Greek farmer play a central role in creating conditions for economic and social development in the rural area.
The priority is the reconstruction of the Ministry of Agriculture because no programme and no policy can be implemented if there is no effective state mechanism for the formulation and implementation of agricultural policy.
We are committed to creating highly effective institutional mechanisms.
- Organizational interconnection and cooperation between farms and enterprises in the wider agricultural sector.
That is, the enterprises that trade, process and export agricultural products and those that supply farmers with inputs and services of all kinds.
This cooperation is considered a crucial factor for rational planning, the conduct of the production process, the application of modern technology, the improvement of quality and the competitiveness of products in general.
It should also be noted that the technological, organisational and economic weaknesses and the inadequacy of the processing and marketing system for agricultural products have a negative impact on prices and the income of the producer.
This discourages efforts to increase production and improve quality.
For this reason, special emphasis and priority is given to the improvement and development of the processing and marketing system of agricultural products on a modern, competitive basis.
- Substantial improvement of the technology used in agricultural production and the information provided to farmers.
This will be achieved by improving the efficiency of the Farm Support System (vocational education and training, agricultural research, technology application and transfer, information and information).
To this end, the decentralisation of key functions of the farm support system to new non-state bodies is appropriate.
In this way, a rapid and substantial improvement in the professional and technical knowledge and business skills of farmers will be achieved.
The agricultural profession in modern agriculture is one of the most demanding in terms of professional knowledge and information, in terms of technology, institutions and market situation.
The main objective of the Farm Support System should be to transfer to farmers the necessary professional knowledge and to support them in making and implementing rational business decisions.
The most crucial factor for the development, modernisation and structural adjustment of our agriculture is the human factor.
Agriculture cannot survive without competent, skilled professional farmers.
- Implement integrated development programmes in rural areas.
In order to develop, the Agricultural Sector needs the necessary infrastructure, but also the support of other sectors in the rural area.
Furthermore, population retention in rural areas requires the creation of employment opportunities in non-agricultural activities and the provision of social services and quality of life for farmers.
The desertification of the Greek periphery is a major economic, social and national problem.
The participation and mobilization of the local population is the key to the implementation of our programme in achieving integrated, balanced rural development.
- Full use of the resources and opportunities offered by the CAP and the Community Support Programme.
Our main objective is to create the necessary infrastructure, as well as structural and technological adaptation to the new conditions.
We also seek to prepare our country's agricultural economy to face the problems and to take advantage of the opportunities arising from the enlargement of the E.U.
- Production of high quality primary and processed products of high added value, as well as safe for the health of the consumer. (strict application of the Community HACCP Directive);
- taking measures to achieve social cohesion and improve the quality of life in rural areas.
In addition to the horizontal policies mentioned above and developed below, policies will be implemented by sector of activity in the agricultural economy, in crop production, livestock, forests and fisheries.
These policies aim to solve the problems of the sectors and create the conditions for rapid growth.
The effective implementation of agricultural policy requires the existence and operation of a complete and reliable system of essential information.
Unfortunately, the various economic, social and ecological data necessary for decision-making and policy selection are scattered in a variety of sources and archives in different institutions.
There is an urgent need to organise them into a single information system for decision-making, in which the various registers are integrated.
It is also planned to complete the Farmers' Registers (Farmers', Oilseed, Vineyard, Grape and Raisin Registers) and to keep them up to date, so that they become useful tools in the implementation of agricultural policy.
The actions of our programme are structured along five axes, as follows:
- Organisational and institutional reconstruction.
- Improving structures - technological change.
- Specific policy measures in the individual sectors.
- Integrated rural development.
- Social cohesion and quality of life.
Eight directions for Rural Development
- Radical reorganization and modernization of the institutions and institutions supporting the rural economy and the Greek farmer.
- Organizational interconnection and cooperation between farms and businesses in the wider agricultural sector.
- Substantially improve the effectiveness of the Farm Support System (vocational education and training, agricultural research, technology application and transfer, information and information).
- Making use of the resources and opportunities offered by the CF and the Community Support Programme.
- Production of high quality primary and processed products of high added value and safe for the health of the consumer.
- Taking measures to achieve social cohesion and improve the quality of life in rural areas.
- Creating a reliable and meaningful information system for effective policy making.
Completion of the Registers (Farmers', Oil, Viticulture, Raisins).
Rural development and the modernisation of Greek agriculture is largely a matter of institutional and organisational reconstruction of the mechanisms of support and protection of the Greek farmer.
This reconstruction includes:-
The reorganisation of the state structures of the agricultural sector.
- The reorganization of the state agricultural sector.
- The reorganisation of rural credit.
- The organic linking of production, processing, marketing and consumption.
- The development of unbiased, economically sound cooperatives.
- strengthening producer groups and inter-professional organisations.
- pilot implementation of new support institutions.
- rational management of water resources.
The Ministry of Agriculture is restructured and renamed the Ministry of Rural Development and Food, under which:
- The strategy and policy for the integrated development of rural areas is designed and implemented.
- Food safety and quality, anti-fraud and consumer protection services are established and take on an important role.
- The services for the planning of development actions and the coordination of the central service with the regional and prefectural services are being redesigned.
- Emphasis is placed on the policy of rational management and utilisation of natural resources and environmental protection.
- A policy on foreign trade in agricultural products is planned and implemented.
- The subsidy management system is being modernised.
The aim is to ensure the reliability of the system and the timely payment of subsidies to beneficiaries.
The Ministry's mission is to create the institutional, economic and social environment and infrastructure for the manifestation of modern development action in the Agricultural Sector, as well as to protect consumers by ensuring the supply of quality products that are safe for their health.
For the success of the Ministry's mission, all its human resources play a decisive role, but especially the geotechnicians.
The state must not only recognise the importance of the work of geotechnical engineers, but must also show its interest.
This recognition should also be manifested in the provision of satisfactory working conditions and better pay.
Furthermore, the state must ensure the continuous training of geotechnical engineers to meet the new requirements of their work.
Professional support and information for Greek farmers is currently practically non-existent.
In important decisions concerning the type, quality and variety of products they will produce, the technology of production and its use in everyday farming practice, the state of the market for products and its prospects, our farmers have been left alone and helpless.
They know the state only through its bureaucratic presence and through the distribution of subsidies and income allocations under the CAP or other policies.
This shortage is one of the most important problems of the Agricultural Sector.
Therefore, priority is given to the reconstruction of the Regional Services of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food and in particular the Rural Development Offices.
Specifically:
- These Offices, which are currently under-functioning, are being reorganised into Local Rural Development Centres and staffed with the appropriate experienced scientific personnel.
The specialisation of their staff is relevant to the capabilities and problems of each region.
- The task of the scientific staff of the Centres is exclusively to provide professional and technological support and information to farmers.
The information concerns products, market prices, EU and government policy, etc.
- The Agricultural Development Centres provide on-farm training for farmers and link agricultural research with the practical application of its results.
- The scientific and technical agricultural staff of the Centres will be free of bureaucratic tasks and will have at their disposal the necessary financial resources and equipment needed to fulfil their mission.
We want agronomists and veterinarians close to the farmers.
An important institution for the rational planning of agricultural production and for the support of agricultural holdings in their production process is that of Agricultural Production Contracts.
The contracts are concluded between farms or producer groups and industrial processing and marketing undertakings for agricultural products.
In our country there are already successful examples with production contracts, as in the case of the Hellenic Sugar Industry, the milk processing industries, etc.
Encouraging and extending the institution of Production Contracts is considered an effective means for the development of the food industry, rational production planning, standardisation and quality improvement and for the development of exports.
- We plan to strengthen this institution by means of incentives and institutional and organisational measures.
- Producers must be provided by contractors with the necessary training and information, technical support and even critical technological inputs for the efficient conduct of production.
- The role of inter-branch organisations can play an important role in extending this institution.
In addition to taking initiatives, these organisations will supervise the implementation of the institution and arbitrate in cases of disputes and controversies.
The complete partisanship of the Peasant Cooperative Organizations by the governments of the PASOK and their use for allegedly "social purposes" diverted the Cooperatives from their purpose and led them downhill.
The results of this foolish policy were malpractice, mismanagement, corruption, huge deficits and indebtedness at ATE.
This led to the inactivity of most agricultural cooperatives of all levels, since very few Cooperative Organizations managed to maintain some activity without being financially indebted today.
"Unfortunately, a great historical institution, which has been a mainstay of the rural economy for decades, has been 'withered away'.
It is also true that in recent years there has been a tendency to approach from many sides on issues such as the detachment of rural cooperative organisations from the party embrace, but no substantial steps have been taken in this direction in practice.
Agricultural Cooperative Organisations, as a predominantly liberal institution, develop rationally only under freedom.
Interference by the party-state in their administrations and their decisions leads to their enslavement and ultimately to their decline.
In the recent history of the institution we have twice had, by law, the abolition of the elected administrations of the Cooperatives.
During the period of the dictatorship of 21 April and in the first government after the 1981 elections with the present Prime Minister as Minister of Agriculture.
We consider the institution of Agricultural Cooperatives to be an important and useful tool for the implementation of agricultural policy and a pillar of the farm economy.
Our aim is to create a truly unbiased and independent cooperative movement, at the service of the farmer, with cooperative organisations that will operate autonomously, responsibly and freely.
Despite the damage that this institution has suffered over the last two decades, there is still room to rebuild it so that it can fulfil its purpose.
Our main aim is for the Agricultural Cooperatives to become a living cell of the rural economy.
The Law currently in force on Cooperative Organizations is quite liberal and does not need significant changes. The ND will supplement this law where necessary to make the institution more effective.
It is necessary to support every effort for the consolidation and self-sufficient economic presence of cooperatives, as well as their transformation into viable economic units by taking measures such as:
- The promotion of the idea of cooperativism through the operation of a modern and stable legislative framework, based on internationally accepted principles, which will create the conditions for the autonomous and responsible operation of cooperatives.
- Supporting the efforts of cooperative organisations to consolidate and become financially self-sufficient.
- Staffing them with experienced scientific and technical personnel, depending on their activities, and improving their staffing levels through continuous education and training.
To this end, OAED programmes and resources from the CIP will be used
- Strengthening the operational structures and expanding the activities of primary and secondary cooperative organisations.
These two important institutions were established and are funded by the EU to strengthen the bargaining position of farmers in the market, to expand their production capacity and for fruitful cooperation with professionals in the wider agricultural sector.
Unfortunately, they have been little used so far in our country.
In particular, the institution of Producer Groups, which is the oldest, was used formally with the intervention of the state, for the collection of Community aid and not actually to strengthen the position of farmers in the market.
In fact, the fact that in most cases existing Agricultural Cooperatives, with their well-known problems, have been christened Producer Groups testifies to the failure of this institution in our country.
- We foresee the full utilisation and support of these two institutions in order to give them a substantial content in their action and operation.
To this end, rational use will be made of the resources provided by the E.E.
This will effectively address the fierce competition in the agricultural products market, which is characterised by monopolistic - oligopolistic situations and which is to the detriment of farmers and consumers.
- Producer groups will be given an organisational structure and infrastructure to enable them to function effectively and not just be 'rubber stamps'.
They thus become a useful tool in the hands of producers:
- for the rational planning of production, in accordance with market possibilities
; - for the acquisition of the necessary infrastructure (packing plants, cold stores, warehouses, means of transport, etc.)
; - for strengthening their negotiating position on the market.
- Interbranch organisations (IOs), which are currently practically non-existent, are being given an appropriate organisational structure and structure.
The IOs can focus either on important agricultural products at national level or in large geographical areas or on all important agricultural products of a smaller region.
The use of the Agricultural Bank by the governments of the PASOK to achieve party aims, as in the case of the Agricultural Cooperatives, resulted in ATE suffering enormous damage and today its financial stability is in danger.
Despite the fact that numerous debt settlements have been made in the past, ATE's non-performing loans are close to 3 billion euros (1 trillion dirhams), as the Minister of National Economy admitted.
About 40% of these debts are owed by farmers and the remaining 60% by Cooperative Organizations, agricultural industries and enterprises of the non-agricultural sector.
ATE's entry into the Stock Exchange and its expansion into the commercial credit sector did not contribute at all to its operation according to private-economic banking criteria, but continued to be an extension of the party state.
The inefficient organisational structure of the Bank has resulted in a number of ambiguities and overlaps in the responsibilities of the service units.
Furthermore, the situation is aggravated by the unreliability and partisan choices in the staff.
Finally, the situation of ATE's portfolio is aggravated by its participation in loss-making agricultural industries and other companies outside the financial sector.
ATE entered the stock exchange showing fictitious profitability at a time when it had a real loss of 128 billion dirhams, by building a subsidiary (ATE SYMMETOXON).
In short, it lost more than 1 billion euros (340 billion dirhams) in the regime games of the stock exchange and is now in an extremely precarious position.
We seek the final consolidation of the Agricultural Bank so that it can operate competitively and profitably in the Greek banking market and fully serve the needs of the rural economy in terms of credit instruments and other banking services.
To this end, the following are foreseen:
- Maintaining the public character of ATE (in the sense that the State retains the majority shareholding) and operating it on private economic criteria.
- Substantial organisational and operational modernisation of the Bank, and consolidation of its portfolio in order to ensure the necessary funds for the timely and adequate financing of farmers and rural development in general.
- Brave and definitive settlement of arrears.
The settlement will be different for farmers than for other debtors.
Specifically:
The settlement of debts to be definitive for a new beginning will be brave for farmers and the commitment of the N.D. that in the problem of "panotokoi" the charge to the debtors will not exceed three times the value of the original loan will be put into practice.
- ATE's gradual disengagement from its involvement in non-financial businesses, which are burdensome and detrimental to its core mission.
- ATE's interest rates for professional farmers will be reduced by the amount of the State subsidy, compared to the corresponding market rates, and not as is currently the case.
The subsidy is 2 points for short-term loans and 1 point for medium-term loans.
- Substantial organisational and operational modernisation of the Bank in order to strengthen its position in the competitive banking market.
In particular, it is foreseen that:
- Establish a sound loan approval system, free from external interference, to avoid the mistakes of the past.
- Abolition of loss-making units, improvement of the quality of staff and their continuous training and merit-based selection to positions of responsibility.
- Establishment of Departmental Directorates and development of a flexible system of unit evaluation.
- Strengthening the role of ATE in credit coverage of the needs of programmes to create employment and income-generating opportunities in non-agricultural activities in the regions (rural tourism, alternative forms of tourism, rural crafts and cottage industries, small commercial and service enterprises, rural housing, etc.).
It is a given that, in addition to other things, of great importance for the development and modernization of our agriculture, firstly, the provision of farmers with the necessary technical and professional advice and information and secondly, the interconnection of agricultural production with the marketing and processing of agricultural products.
In our programme we foresee the restructuring of the Ministry of Agriculture, the consolidation of the Agricultural Cooperatives and the use of Community institutions (Producer Groups, Interprofessional Organisations).
However, the weaknesses of the Public Sector and the shortcomings of the existing institutions are well known, and as a result, the above important objectives are not achieved.
To this end, we foresee the pilot implementation of two new institutions, which will complement the existing institutions, in order to achieve full support for farmers and improve the competitiveness of our rural economy.
These institutions are the Chambers of Agriculture and the Accredited Agricultural Advisers.
The contribution of the Chambers of Agriculture to the agricultural economy of the countries in which this institution operates is significant.
In our country, where the needs for all-round support of farms are enormous and the functional interconnection of production with markets is practically non-existent, we believe that the Agricultural Chambers will be able to effectively cover these shortcomings and contribute to the social and economic upgrading of the agricultural profession.
- We envisage the pilot implementation of this institution, starting with agricultural regions with significant potential for rural development.
- The basic mission of the Chambers of Agriculture will be to promote cooperation between farms and businesses in the wider agricultural sector, particularly those processing, marketing and exporting agricultural products.
This cooperation is seen as the most crucial factor for rational production planning, for improving competitiveness, for clearing the market from illicit trade and for the development of agriculture in general.
The dynamic relationships that will be formed within the framework of the Chambers of Agriculture will enhance the adaptability of agriculture to new conditions and market demand.
This will give the rural economy the dynamism it needs to escape the stagnation and regression of recent decades.
- The Chambers of Agriculture, in addition to their purely chamber functions (representation, registers, expert opinions, information, etc.), will also carry out the functions entrusted to them by the Ministry (education, training, applications, etc.), with significant benefits for all their members.
- The members of the Chambers of Agriculture in each region will be all full-time and part-time heads of agricultural and livestock holdings, heads of fisheries and forestry holdings, private and cooperative enterprises engaged in the marketing and processing of agricultural products.
Also, enterprises engaged in the marketing and production of agricultural inputs and, finally, freelance scientists providing services in agriculture (agronomists, veterinarians, etc.).
Consequently, the Chambers of Agriculture will also function as Interprofessional Organisations.
- The operating costs of the Chambers of Agriculture will be covered by various sources, such as: a subsidy from the State for the responsibilities assigned to them, fees for services provided to their members and third parties (expert opinions, quality controls, certifications, etc.), income from the implementation of EU programmes (particularly as regards inter-branch organisations, since the Chambers of Agriculture will operate as such), and contributions from their members.
These contributions will be graduated according to the economic size of each member, while small producers will be exempted.
In certain agricultural areas with severe structural problems, but also in areas with significant untapped potential for rural development, the pilot implementation of the institution of Accredited Agricultural Advisors (AACs) is envisaged.
The AACs will be private agronomists and other scientists, with specialisations according to the needs of each region.
They will have organised offices and the necessary laboratory and IT equipment.
- The task of the Boards is to assist the services of the Ministry in the implementation of the restructuring and development programmes of the agricultural economy of the region and to provide information, training and technical support services to farmers. -
Priority is given to the implementation of programmes to develop the production of organic and ecological products, the production of quality products with designation of origin and the replacement of declining crops or crops that will be affected by the planned change in the CAP.
- A special Law regulates the issues of accreditation by the State and the operation of the Boards and determines the way in which they are paid by the Ministry for the work they are to be entrusted with and the services they are to provide.
Their work is regularly evaluated to renew their accreditation.
Agricultural development is inextricably linked to irrigation and water resources management in general.
It is known that irrigation covers about 85% of total water consumption.
This means that any improvement in the operation of irrigation networks prevents the huge waste of water that is currently taking place and leads to savings of millions of cubic metres of water.
In addition, the implementation of large and small irrigation projects has been almost abandoned in recent years and a large part of the water potential remains unused, while many areas are at risk of over-pumping and inappropriate use of water resources.
But also the protection of water resources from pollution is practically non-existent.
Groundwater and surface water are polluted by the excessive use of fertilisers and pesticides, as well as by the uncontrolled disposal of industrial and municipal waste.
The phenomenon of waterlogging in coastal and island agricultural areas has reached great proportions.
Also, the risk of reefing and other large areas (even far from the sea) is visible.
The competitiveness and sustainability of Greek agriculture depends to a large extent on the rational use of water resources.
Productivity and cost reduction are directly linked to production technology, which in turn, among other factors, is highly dependent on irrigation.
The rational management and use of our country's water resources is a prerequisite for sustainable development, for the improvement of the quality of life and, in general, for the protection and preservation of the environment.
The integrated management of water resources (development-utilisation, use and protection) in the most rational way is therefore an absolute priority.
The climatic changes already taking place on our planet and in particular in the Mediterranean basin, make the water factor even more critical.
Recognising this critical role of water, our programme gives immediate priority to the water resources factor, taking all necessary measures for proper management.
The main objectives of our policy are water saving combined with the protection of water and soil resources and the natural environment.
In order to achieve these objectives, the following measures are envisaged:
- Preparation of an integrated programme for the rational management and use of water resources.
- Reorganisation of the institutional framework for the maintenance and operation of irrigation projects and incentives for the implementation of irrigation systems that contribute to the reduction of water consumption and water saving (closed system, drip irrigation, etc.)
- Modernisation of the existing irrigation networks based on the experience gained and new technologies (reduction of waste, rational use, control of quantities, full compliance of users with the network's operating programme).
- A systematic and controlled licensing system for new boreholes and effective control of the operation of old ones, in direct relation to the enrichment (natural or artificial) of underground aquifers and the avoidance of waterlogging.
- Accelerate the completion of major irrigation projects and exploit surface water, with priority given to areas of waterlogging and over-abstraction.
- Construction of small irrigation projects in mountainous, semi-mountainous and island areas (construction of small dams and reservoirs).
These projects are multi-purpose, as they ensure irrigation, the utilisation and ecological conservation of abandoned land and also contribute to the water supply of small mountain settlements, the protection of the environment and forest areas, as well as the development of livestock farming and tourism.
- Construction of numerous mountain hydrology projects to control torrents, stabilise soils and protect them from erosion.
- Provide effective incentives for the implementation of small-scale rational water resources management projects by individuals, groups of individuals, cooperatives or OTAs.
These projects can be combined with the creation of hydrological forests to prevent disasters caused by heavy rainfall.
- Effective use of the International Conventions on transboundary waters to increase and improve water resources in Macedonia and Thrace. -
Continuous training of the staff of the competent bodies and popularised information for users on the rational use of irrigation water, soil and agrochemicals (fertilisers, insecticides, etc.);
- Finally, and very importantly, the creation of the National Water Resources Management Agency is envisaged.
Its main mission is the integrated management of water resources (development - exploitation - use - protection) in the most rational way.
This body is a body of executive and coordinating character and recommends to the government the formulation of the appropriate water policy at national, interregional and transnational level and is responsible for its implementation. At regional level, the objective is to manage water resources by Hydrological Basin or Hydrological Basin Systems.
- Implementation of integrated development programmes in rural areas.
The world around us is changing very quickly.
It is a world of new challenges and opportunities.
A world of new visions for greater cooperation,
Development
and security.
But also a world with problems and new threats.
A world of rivalries, contradictions and differences.
The task of New Governance is to exploit the opportunities for Greece and its citizens and to maximise the dividend of progress offered by the new era.
At the same time it will minimise its negative dimensions.
The New Government is implementing a national foreign policy that will bring Greece, through the use of its European participation and other international bases, to the centre of decision-making.
A policy that will offer security and prosperity to all Greeks.
A foreign policy with a vision and a clear programme at the service of the citizen.
For us, foreign policy is not detached from the internal reality of the country and the need to improve critical sectors such as the economy, agriculture, shipping, tourism, the promotion of Greek culture and education, etc.
The New Government will implement a dynamic foreign policy of peace and cooperation.
A foreign policy with its eyes on the world and its thoughts on the Greek citizen.
These commitments have the stamp of our consistency and credibility.
The New Democracy has proven that it knows and is capable of conceiving national visions, planning strategies and achieving national strategic goals that change the fate of our country and strengthen its international position.
Greece's accession to the European Union is the great historical achievement in the modern course of Hellenism and is an achievement of the New Democracy and its founder, Constantine Karamanlis.
And these great and great things, which today have the acceptance of the overwhelming majority of Greeks, took place at a time when other political forces, and especially the PASOK, saw our country in the Third World.
Characteristic examples are the attitude of the now mutant PASOK towards Greece's accession to the European Union and its
relations with Turkey.
The issue now is to look forward, based on the credibility and clarity of the New Governance agenda.
With the clear foreign policy of the New Democracy, Greece can:
1. To safeguard and promote with determination and effectiveness its national interests, while offering security and prosperity to the citizen.
2. To gain and maximise its credibility, prestige and influence in the European Union.
3. To continue to be a strong factor for peace and progress, a reference point and a model in its wider region.
4. To offer its practical support to the Greeks in the diaspora, all over the world, making use of their own contribution and love for the homeland, for the progress of all.
5. to use every opportunity and occasion to promote and promote Greek culture - from ancient to modern - worldwide as a timeless message of respect for man, democracy, peace and moderation.
6. To promote to the international environment the enormous and untapped potential of Greek entrepreneurship, which, due to the pioneering spirit of the Greek entrepreneur, can gain a prominent position in international markets.
7. To participate with authority and credibility in the wider group of the most progressive, powerful countries of the world and at the same time to promote and support the right of the less powerful of the world to development, progress and democracy.
8. To assert and safeguard its rights and honour its obligations arising from its bilateral, multilateral and allied relations.
9. To have an active presence and develop initiatives within international and regional organisations, in particular the United Nations Organisation, which has the central role in promoting world peace, security and progress.
10. To play a leading role in initiatives undertaken within the framework of international legitimacy for the respect of human rights
the fight against terrorism and the proliferation of Weapons of Mass Destruction,
protecting the environment,
the fight against poverty,
social exclusion and problems that know no borders,
like organized crime,
human trafficking,
drugs, etc.
A visionary policy for Greece's position and role in the 21st century presupposes the corresponding tools for the future.
Fundamental pillars in this effort will be:-
Ecumenical Hellenism
A second Greece, almost equal in number to the Greek population, is spread over 140 countries of the world.
It is time for Greeks to come closer together.
Let us join forces.
Coordinate our efforts.
To develop a new relationship with the communities, the communities of Greeks all over the world.
In this effort we support the SAE, we support the expatriate organisations. - National
consensus
National consensus and unanimity are the basis for increasing the effectiveness and influence of Greek foreign policy.
The New Democracy is committed to proceed with a policy of the broadest possible consensus in Parliament, but also with the effective and not merely formal operation of the National Council for Foreign Policy.
We also activate the Council of Political Leaders under the President of the Republic, when circumstances require it. - A
Greece of culture is a strong Greece internationally
A Greece of education and culture is one that can occupy a prominent position in the new Europe of the 25.
It is our country's obligation to spread the rich values of the Greek spirit and the Greek language abroad, without exaggeration, but on the basis of moderation and the desire to contribute to the universal human heritage. -
Reliable and rational defence A
reliable force to deter any attack on national sovereignty and territorial integrity is a dominant instrument for the effectiveness of our foreign policy.
The same applies to orders for the country's armament programmes from abroad.
The New Democracy is committed to a modern, reliable, but also rationally structured defence, with the best use of the recruits and with respect for the Greek taxpayer's savings. - A
dynamic and outward-looking economy
Greece needs to promote the appropriate reforms in order to become a competitive country at all levels, not only in its wider region but also within the European Union.
A modern foreign policy is directly linked to the promotion of the country's international economic relations and the maximisation of national development. -
Coordination and upgrading of the executive role of the MFA
Beyond traditional diplomacy, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has to perform the crucial coordinating role of the Greek presence in the European Union.
The efficient operation of a modern Ministry of Foreign Affairs requires the utilisation and upgrading of its competent staff.
In addition, it is vital to attract the young and capable executives of tomorrow, by providing them with substantial incentives for career prospects and the necessary remuneration to fulfil their mission. -
A new era for civil society
The strengthening of civil society and non-governmental organisations promotes the spirit of solidarity of modern Greece.
The aim of the New Democracy is to achieve a consensual coordination for humanitarian, food and development aid, through the implementation of actions and programmes of non-governmental organisations.
Our central goal is an ambitious Greece in a strong and united Europe of solidarity.
To achieve this, it is necessary for us as a country to move from being the laggards we are today to becoming part of the group of pioneers.
Despite its more than two decades of membership of Europe and the many tens of billions of euros of Community aid, our country has not managed to catch up economically and socially with the rest of Europe.
Today, per capita income in Greece remains the lowest in the European Union and our performance in many areas is disappointing to say the least.
Greece must move forward.
From being the underdog to joining the group of leaders.
Our goal is to create a Europe of security and prosperity for all.
A strong and reliable European Security and Defence Policy is a key priority of our European policy.
The inclusion of a substantial solidarity and mutual assistance clause in the European Constitution will strengthen Greece's position within the European security and defence system.
It has become clear to us that a strong European Security and Defence Policy is not antagonistic and a factor in weakening transatlantic ties, but a complementary effort that strengthens stability and peace on an international scale.
The accession of Cyprus to the European Union is a truly historic milestone in the tragic history of the island.
At the same time, it is a starting point for a better tomorrow of peace, stability and prosperity for all Cypriots, Greek Cypriots and Turkish Cypriots.
The New Republic is working and will continue, as a Government, to cooperate with the Republic of Cyprus to achieve a European solution to the Cyprus problem for the benefit of all sides, Greek Cypriots and Turkish Cypriots.
This solution must be fair, viable and workable, in accordance with the decisions of the OHE, European values and the acquis communautaire, while respecting the rights deriving from the status of an EU Member State.
The settlement plan proposed by the UN Secretary General is an acceptable basis for negotiation by the Republic of Cyprus and the international community.
The strategy of "no solution", which has been followed so far by the Turkish side, is to the detriment of the entire Cypriot population, to the detriment of Greek-Turkish relations and to the detriment of stability in the region.
We hope that with the new process that has already started, a European solution will finally be reached.
A solution that will guarantee Cypriot citizens the same rights as other Europeans. We hope that both the role of the Secretary General of the OHE and the active contribution of the European Union will contribute in this direction.
Another major strategic objective is to secure a leading position in our wider region.
The Balkans, mainly because of their rapprochement with the "25" Europe, will enter in the coming period a process of fundamental changes.
The great challenge for our country in the next decade is to play a leading role in the process of these radical changes.
Our strategic goal is to improve the overall landscape around Greece's borders.
By taking initiatives, an area of cooperation must be created in the region, based on good neighbourliness, inviolability of borders,
peaceful resolution of disputes
and respect for human rights,
democratic values and the rule of law.
We all want to change our neighborhood together.
To transform the Eastern Europe into an area of stability, cooperation, progress and prosperity for all.
This is why, among other things:-
We are promoting a network of bilateral "European Partnership" agreements.
- We seek the establishment of an International University of Thessaloniki, as a meeting point for the cultures of Eastern Europe.
- We implement a credible policy of international development aid, on the basis of a rationally formulated and effectively implemented programme.
As far as our relations with Turkey are concerned, the positions of the New Democracy are characterised by vision, realism and credibility.
Thirty years after the Cyprus tragedy and the projection of Turkish claims in the Aegean, Turkey's effort to join the European Union creates more favourable conditions and also strengthens our position.
The New Democracy has always been the political force that has worked for the normalization of Greek-Turkish relations, because it believed and believes that this will be to the benefit of the Greek and Turkish people, but also of the entire region.
This normalization leading to stability and peace can only be achieved through dialogue and not through threats, tensions and unilateral claims in violation of International Law and International Treaties.
However, in order to be constructive and not to lead to dangerous deadlocks, the dialogue with Turkey must be based on the following principles and conditions:
- Respect for territorial integrity and sovereign rights
- Absence of the use of force or threat of use of force
- Respect for the rules and requirements of International Law and International Treaties, such as the Law of the Sea.
It goes without saying, of course, that there can be no substantial normalisation in Greek-Turkish relations without a just, viable and functional solution to the Cyprus problem.
A solution that should be in line with OHE decisions, the acquis communautaire and European principles.
A fundamental objective of the policy of dialogue with Turkey is the "demilitarisation" of Greek-Turkish relations.
This means that the Turkish government will have to prove that it really wants a peaceful solution to the problems.
That it does not look forward to conflict and threats.
That it wants to put an end to the dead-end and dangerous practice of massive violations of Greek airspace, threats of violence and the invocation of the infamous "casus belli".
Within this framework of positions, principles and priorities, our support for Turkey's European perspective becomes a lever for peace and a vision of hope.
We support this prospect because we believe that this will be an additional and strong incentive to solve the problems and to establish a climate of stability, mutual trust and cooperation in our wider region.
Like the one that prevails between European states.
At the same time, however, we have stressed many times that Turkey's European perspective - the pace of its European progress - depends on Turkey itself.
It must successfully meet the criteria and conditions set by the European Union for all its candidate members.
Turkey is making significant efforts and steps in this direction with the Erdogan government.
But the introduction of legislative reforms must be followed by their effective implementation, in a way that develops and consolidates democracy and respects human rights.
Moreover, Turkey's international behaviour must be that of a European country.
Without territorial claims, threats and violations and with respect for international legitimacy.
The December 2004 milestone, linked to the decision of the European Union to open accession negotiations with Turkey, offers the neighbouring country the opportunity to handle the issue in a new constructive spirit.
As the government of the country, the New Democracy, within the framework of these principles and conditions, will promote and systematize the Greek-Turkish dialogue.
Beyond a climate of mutual goodwill and understanding, a decisive political impetus is needed.
For this reason we believe that a Greek-Turkish Cooperation Council should be established at an appropriate time.
The Greek-Turkish Cooperation Council will meet at the level of Prime Ministers at least once a year in order to examine the course of relations between the two countries and to strengthen Turkey's course towards the European Union.
In this context, regular meetings of the Foreign Ministers will be foreseen, complemented by meetings of other relevant Ministers, so that bilateral relations develop in parallel with Turkey's European progress.
The United States of America is today the strongest democratic country in the world.
Its political, economic and cultural influence on the international scene is great and its military power is a given.
Greece has traditionally enjoyed friendly and cooperative relations with this country in a wide range of areas.
A dynamic, successful and prosperous Greek diaspora that has offered much to both allied countries connects us with the USA.
Of course, these relationships were not always fruitless.
They experienced transitions and difficulties.
The New Republic believes in developing relations with the USA in all areas - bilaterally and multilaterally - always on the basis of respect for the principle of equality, sincere dialogue and mutual benefit.
In such a relationship of continuous and sincere cooperation, Greece must and can:
- promote with credibility and determination its interests, priorities and perceptions;
- exploit the great opportunities offered by its traditional relationship with the USA at bilateral and multilateral level, especially in NATO and the OHE;
- promote the image of a modern and creative Greece in the USA, following a well-prepared, consistent and coherent promotion strategy.
Russia is gradually returning to the forefront of international developments.
This trend is also reinforced by the closer relationship of cooperation that Russia now has with both the European Union and NATO, which makes it a factor of balance and stability.
The New Republic believes particularly in the stabilising role that Russia can play in the regions close to Greece.
The further development of historical ties and friendly relations between the two peoples in all areas is our main objective.
These positions are inextricably linked to our special interest in the wider Black Sea and Caucasus region.
A region coming out of international isolation and looking forward to the European Union.
A region with a strong Greek presence, which is a strong bridge of friendship and cooperation.
In recent years, Greece's bilateral contacts with the countries of the Eastern Mediterranean and the Middle East have deteriorated.
At a time when the economic interests of all countries are on the alert, Greece is practically absent and does not take new initiatives.
The New Democracy plans the systematic reactivation of Greece in the wider Mediterranean area in various forms, the main ones being:
- The immediate reactivation and strengthening of bilateral political and economic contacts at governmental level with the Arab states and Israel, so that there is a balanced Greek presence in the area.
- The conclusion and expansion of bilateral economic cooperation agreements.
- The active participation of our country in the formulation of EU policy towards the Mediterranean countries.
The coordination of our efforts in the region, with Cyprus.
Today, the priority in the Middle East is to end all violence and to ensure the conditions for a viable solution to the Palestinian problem.
A solution based on the recognition of a Palestinian State and, of course, on the guarantee of Israel's security.
The upgrading of Greece's economic, political and cultural relations with China and the other important markets of Asia and Oceania must be an important priority for our country.
Beijing's hosting of the 2008 Olympic Games brings two ancient civilisations to the forefront, and can be the trigger for an upgraded political and diplomatic cooperation.
On this basis of fundamental directions, choices and priorities, the New Intergovernmental Government:
- Is committed to a new credible foreign policy of ambition for Greece.
- It is committed to a foreign policy of national self-confidence.
- It is committed to a foreign policy with a vision and a programme.
- It is committed to a foreign policy that looks to the world and thinks of the Greek people everywhere.
- It is committed to a foreign policy at the service of the citizen.
The government programme of the New Democracy for Defence and Security responds to Greece's security needs for the 21st century.
Reform of our country's Armed Forces is a national necessity in order to make them capable of dealing not only with current but also with future threats.
We are proceeding with a reform, taking into account the new conditions prevailing in today's Greek society, which are different from those prevailing 60 years ago, when the conscription system was introduced, which is still in force today.
But the threats, too, are significantly different.
In their direction, quality and type.
The members of the Armed Forces are currently facing challenges that require a special approach.
At the same time, the procurement regime for defence equipment needs a radical overhaul.
To be able to meet the real defence needs of the country, to support the development of the national economy and the domestic defence industry and to ensure transparency.
The existing security problem facing Greece obliges us to move towards an arms policy which will ensure our ability to defend ourselves effectively against any threat.
The hypocrisy of the PASOK governments in the field of armaments is characteristic.
They are securing the country's economic future by signing arms purchases worth 51 billion euros through opaque procedures, scandalous contracts with offshore companies, "black money", judicial investigations of Greek and foreign judicial officials.
And then, after they proceed with the assignments, they make proposals for arms reduction.
They are not interested in the defence armour of our country, but use public money for national defence in order to support a closed circle of businessmen, to whom they have entrusted the money of Greek taxpayers, in exchange for the support of the government.
With specific measures and interventions and with a focus on human resources, we are proceeding with the reform of the Armed Forces of Greece.
The axes of this reform concern:
- The gradual reduction of the term of office to six months and the creation of a new institution, the Highly Qualified Reservists.
- The stimulation of local communities.
- To solve the problem of foreign conscripts.
- Upgrading the organisational and operational functioning of the troops.
- The elimination of partisanship.
- The creation of a new army, smaller in number, more powerful, more flexible, more responsive, better trained and more ready, as a key factor in deterring and guaranteeing security.
With specific measures and interventions and focusing on human resources, which faithfully and tirelessly serve the defence and security interests of the country, to whom the State owes a lot.
- Solving the financial problems of the military and civilian personnel of the Armed Forces.
- Strengthening transparency in the procurement of defence equipment.
In our Armed Forces reform plan we foresee the reduction of the troop ceiling.
The new features of our troops will be a smaller number of conscripts, better training, and staffing with 25,000 Professional Soldiers, fully upgraded.
Gradual reduction of the term of office to 6 months
As the recruitment programme for the CSOs evolves and the security conditions in our region evolve, the term of office will gradually begin to be reduced from 2005 onwards, down to the minimum possible limit of six months.
The reduction of the term of service will be the result of the reform we will implement and will not undermine the defence capacity of our country.
At the same time, it will also have a positive social impact, since it will result in financial relief for the families of soldiers, who currently spend more than 3,500 euros for a member serving twelve months of service.
New institution: high readiness reservists
In order to ensure the full manning of the front-line units, we are creating the institution of high readiness reservists (H.R.E.S.), which will involve about 100,000 men from border areas, aged up to 35 years old.
Those who participate in this new institution will be able to be productively linked to the country's security organisation with a Professional Soldier's salary.
We are giving a way out to young people who are currently working seasonally and then joining unemployment schemes.
We can include up to 100,000 men in this programme.
They will join the army for several months of the year, will be paid during their period of service at the same rate of pay as their permanent peers, and will receive special training in the various schools of their specialty or rank.
The benefit will be twofold.
On the one hand, thousands of families in border areas will be "relieved" economically, and there will be significant savings from the restriction on the recruitment of permanent staff.
And on the other hand, we will have a combat-ready and well-trained force of high readiness, readily available, in places where, potentially, we can face a security problem.
Emphasis on the development of local communities
All non-operational auxiliary activities (cleaning, building maintenance, garbage collection, maintenance - repair of certain means of transport, etc.) will be contracted out to small local companies or natural persons with regularly renewable contracts following competitive tendering, so that the new Armed Forces will function as an integrated security mechanism and not as uniformed civil servants performing a parergroup.
At the same time, there will be significant economic benefits for local communities by channelling these activities off-site.
A solution for the disaffected
We settle the question of the disaffected once and for all.
Under the new arrangements we are promoting, after they reach the age of 35, and after serving the required period of basic training, they will be able to redeem their service, with an amount equal to their EPO salary for the months of service in force at that time.
Until the final regulation of their obligation, they will be able to visit the country freely for 30 days each year, without the required permission of the Minister of National Defence, as is currently the case.
Ethics - Discipline
Morale and discipline are the cornerstone of a well-organised and efficient army.
To this end, the following are foreseen:
- The complete elimination of partisanship from the ED, in order to restore unity, conscious discipline, a proper hierarchical structure and collegial solidarity.
- Remedying injustices and establishing meritocracy at all levels, so that staff feel secure in their professional development, based on their substantive and formal qualifications, their personal performance, their selflessness and their commitment to duty and legality.
- Restoring the prestige of the Armed Forces and active and retired members of the Armed Forces and enhancing their social status.
Modernization in the organization and administration of the army
The reform we are promoting aims to operate the army in a way that will meet its mission and the new security requirements of our country.
This is the framework within which we will proceed: - The
return of operational competences to their physical bearers (Chiefs of General Staff), the exclusion of extra-institutional interventions in the functioning of the Armed Forces and the organisational modernisation of the Armed Forces;
- The establishment of a single interdisciplinary headquarters.
- The implementation of a technological infrastructure programme for the 'soldier of the future'.
- The creation of an Environmental Protection Directorate to function as an environmental management system.
- A radical overhaul of the system of training and development of reservists.
- The full activation of the gender equality office.
- The participation of representatives of the Officers' Associations in the bodies that decide on matters concerning them.
Better pay for military personnel
We are adopting a new pay scale which provides for:
- An increase in the basic salary of the Lieutenant to 860 euros (from the current 720 euros).
- The normalisation of the rates to a ratio of 3 to 1 between Lieutenant General and Lieutenant Commander.
- The introduction of a new pay scale for the A/CG, A/CG, Army Chief of Staff, A/CS, A/CS, ATA and the Army Inspector.
- The extension of the application of Law 2838/2000 to all demobilized personnel and the immediate abolition of the deductions imposed on salaries and pensions by article 8 of Law 2084/92.
Better living conditions
Armed Forces personnel are entitled to better housing and living conditions.
And in order to put them into practice, we are promoting:
- The modernisation of the plants' facilities.
- The improvement of the living and working conditions of the staff.
- Solving the housing problem of active and retired military personnel.
- The improvement of the quality of life of the families of personnel in the units by establishing day nurseries for their minor children.
- Offering part-time jobs to unemployed spouses.
- The compulsory co-service of spouses.
- The right to cumulative use of service exemptions.
- The full operation of military staff welfare offices.
Upgrading health services
In our reform we provide: -
The maintenance of the current status of the military hospitals and the NIMTS;
- The upgrading of the care provided.
- The operation of new hospital units within them in order to make full use of the scientific staff and upgrade their hotel infrastructure.
Measures for Civilian Personnel
Our reform also provides for specific interventions for the civilian personnel of our Armed Forces.
Measures such as:
- The modification of the organisation, with the aim of redressing the injustices done to deserving executives, restoring meritocracy and using them in positions of responsibility.
- Solving their financial problems.
- To ensure that civilian personnel are served by military pharmacies without exception.
- Recognition of previous service in the private sector.
- The regulation of the allowance for unhealthy and dangerous work.
For the Training of Executives
The Armed Forces we need require highly trained personnel capable of dealing with the new complex threats to our country's security.
For the better training of our military personnel we provide:
- The upgrading of training at the ASEI, the SETHA and the Transatlantic War College.
- The possibility of recognising their degrees as postgraduate qualifications.
The defence industry in a new role
There can be no reliable security mechanism if the operation of our modern Armed Forces is not supported by a modern domestic defence industry.
For the New Democracy, the priorities are:
- The reorganization and modernization of state industry.
Cooperate on an equal basis with the private sector to create a dynamic and competitive domestic defence industry.
Transfer of research and development programmes to domestic defence industries and their participation in joint European and other programmes.
- Long-term planning of research and technological development for strategic partnerships. -
Maximum participation in the implementation of armaments programmes and full utilisation of AOs in the areas of infrastructure, know-how, research and development and the achievement of high real ERA;
- Establishment of a Register of Manufacturers and Sub-Manufacturers and the establishment of a Defence Equipment Export Promotion Agency.
Transparency in defence procurement
The New Democracy is committed to ensuring transparency and conditions of healthy competition with strict compliance with the legal framework for the procurement of our Armed Forces.
We want every euro that the Greek citizen pays for the security of our country to pay off.
As part of this commitment we are promoting:
- The creation of an independent procurement control authority (the College of Financial Auditors).
- The abolition of the General Secretariat for Financial Planning and Defence Investments (GSOΣAE) and its departments and the transfer of responsibility for the planning of armament needs to the General Secretariat for Defence.
- The creation of a body for the implementation of arms programmes and related policies under the YETHA.
- The introduction of the institution "Investment appraisal, development and implementation of an Equipment Quality Management System".
- The full utilization of the financial facilities provided by NATO, the EU and the appropriate utilization of the Defence Funds of the Branches and the National Defence Fund
It is common knowledge that the slowness of the administration of civil, criminal and administrative justice borders on denial of justice.
When it takes about 2-3 years for a final decision, 5-6 years for a final decision and 7-8 years for an irrevocable decision, it is a confirmation of the truth.
In the criminal justice system, impunity is maintained in some cases.
Example: When an Attorney General, when he is investigating a case and during his examination he encounters the responsibility of government officials, then according to the Constitution and the law on the responsibility of Ministers, he submits the case file to the President of the Parliament for the majority of the Parliament to decide on its further investigation.
Such cases, 15 in number, have been pending in his office for the last 4 years.
The majority of the House does not allow further investigation with the aim of extinguishing the statute of limitations once the relevant time limit has expired.
Nor does the majority in Parliament of the ruling party (XAA - Land Registry - Loto, etc.) allow commissions of inquiry to be set up.
The former Prosecutor of the Supreme Court, Mr Krostallakis, said that the illegality, rot and corruption exceeded all imagination.
If we consider that our country has the unfortunate privilege of occupying the first and most prominent position among all EU countries, and not only in terms of corruption, one can understand the extent of the problem.
The quality of justice is an indicator of culture and democracy.
Today, the institutions of justice do not have the infrastructure or the means they need to perform their function as they would like.
Citizens are inconvenienced in the courts.
Decisions are delayed, to the extent that they often negate much of their value.
And this is perhaps the number one problem of justice in our time.
Greece needs a justice system that is independent, swift, fair, rigorous, strict, inspiring confidence, hope and certainty that it will defend the law and the legitimate interests of the citizen, even against his economically and politically and socially powerful opponent.
A judiciary unaffected by party interference and with the personal and functional independence of judges guaranteed.
There is a need to instil in our people a climate of confidence in the judiciary and its free and independent judgement.
For this reason it is envisaged:-
To stick to our well-known proposals during the revision of the Constitution in 2000 as regards the selection of the leadership of the Judiciary and until the revision of the Constitution.
Selection on the basis of seniority and merit and after a simple opinion of the Plenary Sections of the Supreme Courts.
Our aim is for the judges themselves to choose their leadership.
- Upgrading the Supreme Judicial Council with increased powers to better ensure the independence of the judiciary.
- Redefine the organisational posts of judges and court officials on the basis of the number of cases being heard and compared to the number of those that existed when they were appointed to basic organisational posts.
- Establishment and operation of an Administrative Court of First Instance in each county seat.
- Computerisation of courts, judges and bar associations, use of new technologies and monitoring and information on the progress of cases via the internet.
- Establishment of a Judicial Police under a Senior Judicial Officer, accompanied by forensic experts, accountants, economists, social workers and psychologists to facilitate the work of judges and speed up the work of the criminal justice system.
- Decriminalisation of offences, with the exception of those of particular social value, and a review of many other offences in the light of decriminalisation and the imposition of administrative sanctions.
- Establishment of new penitentiaries, with particular emphasis on establishments for drug-dependent persons, with modern living conditions for prisoners and their allocation to them according to the level of the sentence, gender, age, type of offence, etc., and implementation of modern measures and methods of anti-crime and penitentiary policy. -
Addressing the problem of the difficult operation of the first instance courts in Attica following a broad dialogue with all the stakeholders in the judiciary on the establishment of 2-3 new first instance courts near the METPO stations;
- Taking measures to speed up the administration of justice (civil, criminal, administrative) with the aim of issuing a final decision within one year and a final decision within two years of the filing of the opening brief. -
Adoption of legislative measures to put the State and the NCAs on an equal footing in procedural and substantive terms with private litigants (abolition of presumptions, interest, enforcement of judgments, proof, etc.);
- Ensure that judicial officials receive real salaries commensurate with their work and resolve all their financial and institutional problems and remedy the injustices they have suffered so far.
- Address, after a frank dialogue, the problems of lawyers, notaries, mortgage officers and bailiffs.
- Upgrading the role of the Court of Auditors to make it the main body for monitoring transparency and good governance of the wider public sector and all those who administer public money.
The protection of the life and property of the citizen is a basic obligation of the state.
In the new era with the rise of international terrorism, organised crime, illegal immigration, drug trafficking, money laundering, the obligations of the Police are increasing.
Organized states are forced to develop new policies so that the Police Services can fulfill their mission without being diverted from their purpose, without harming the freedoms of citizens.
Today, more than ever, there is an urgent need for a more rational anti-crime policy.
Each of us should contribute to this from our own position and according to our own capabilities.
All of us together - the State, the Security Forces, Science, the Media - should work together in harmony to achieve our common goal:
a better Greece with security for all Greeks.
The insecurity of Greek citizens has never reached the current alarming levels.
Greeks are proving to be the most insecure citizens in Europe and the unprecedented increase in crime and the inability to deal with it are the main reasons for their insecurity.
- The increase in most indicators of crime in Greece has been dramatic over the last ten (10) years.
- Greece ranks second in Europe in terms of the rate of increase in serious crime.
- Over the last 10 years, the increase in all general felonies in Greece has exceeded 750%, the increase in homicides has exceeded 400%, robberies have risen by 700%, juvenile crime has increased by 120% and child crime by 160%.
- Thirty (30) times more deaths - mainly of young people - were caused by drugs in our country in 2003 than in 1985.
- Greece appears as the first country in the European Union's black list of deaths from drug use.
- Thefts, robberies and burglaries are the new nightmare of Greek cities, according to the latest report of the Ministry of Public Order.
The PASOK governments have failed miserably in the field of public order and security.
After a long and careful study and analysis of the country's anti-crime policy over the last decade, we come to the following conclusions:
- The manpower of the Greek Police is distributed irrationally in the various regions of the Greek territory.
There is no criterion whatsoever for the distribution of the forces of the EL.AΣ. in the individual geographical areas of the territory.
- 50% of the police are engaged in other tasks.
- The abolition of the departments has had a negative impact on the security of the cities.
The creation of the Multipurpose Departments has failed miserably.
- The Greek countryside is unprotected.
The Greek borders do not have even basic security.
- Criminal investigation is inadequate and not supported by the State.
- Greece remains the only Member State of the European Union which has no scientifically documented data on the quantitative and qualitative development of crime.
The State lacks a strategic planning of a long-term and rational anti-crime policy.
- The logistical infrastructure of the CPS is at a particularly low level in relation to the modern crime it is called upon to deal with.
- The theoretical training of Greek police and firefighters, as well as the training of police officers in weapons, is still rudimentary and anachronistic.
- There is no coordination and cooperation between the Hellenic Police and the other public order and security bodies under the jurisdiction of other ministries (e.g. the Coast Guard, the Financial Crime Unit).
The State is obliged to give a decisive response.
But this is not done by falsifying data, as the government has repeatedly tried to do.
In the New Governance, the security of the citizen and respect for his/her freedoms are top priority issues.
The New Democracy - after a dialogue with Greek society and institutional bodies - presents a new proposal for a new anti-crime policy with People at its centre, the main axes of which are:
Valorocracy and transparency in the security forces
- The reward of merit.
- The consolidation of meritocracy at all levels.
- The fight against partisanship.
- The effort towards de-independence from political interventions of all types.
- The fight against corruption.
Restructuring of the services of the Hellenic Police
- Adaptation of successful international policing models to the needs and specificities of the Greek case.
- The radical changes in the organisation, structure and operation of the Hellenic Police, with emphasis on strengthening the Assecurity sector.
- The rational allocation of the human resources of the Hellenic Police Force based on the needs of each Police Directorate for policing.
- The creation of special sections of the CPS specialising in particular crimes.
- Recruitment of scientific staff.
- Strengthening the institution of foot patrols.
- Intensification of the protection of the countryside.
- Establishment of a Rural Security Service with the task of policing the countryside.
Upgrading of training and intensification of the further training of police and firefighters
- The creation of the University of Police and Fire Studies.
- The creation of chairs in the individual subjects.
- Recruitment of permanent scientific staff.
- The creation of training manuals specifically adapted to the training needs of Greek police firefighters.
The creation of the University, in combination with the creation of chairs in individual subjects, the recruitment of permanent scientific staff and the creation of educational manuals specially adapted to the needs of trainees, will form the most solid basis for building the modern and effective public order and security that we envision for Greece in the 21st century.
Modernisation of the logistical infrastructure and monitoring of new technologies.
- Renewal and modernisation of the logistical infrastructure of the security forces.
- Equipping the services of the CPS with new technologies.
Cooperation with the trade unions of the Security Corps on institutional problems and demands.
- With regard to the demand of the trade unions of the Security Corps for the recognition of their profession as hazardous and unhealthy, the ND recognises the risks that Security Corps personnel run in the performance of their duties.
- The PD recognises that Security Corps personnel should be given appropriate remuneration, the amount and form of which will be determined after a dialogue.
Upgrading the pay and status of staff
- Increasing the pay of Greek police officers.
The new pay scale to which we have committed will soon become a reality.
- The basic salary of a B-police officer - Antigua is increased from EUR 720 to EUR 860.
- Extension of the provisions of Law 2838/2000 to all security forces pensioners.
- The adoption of effective measures for the protection of police officers and their families.
- Launch an extensive public information campaign on the role and achievements of the police.
- Involvement of the Police in the formulation of the State's social policy, so as to present the Police as a helper of the citizen.
- Finally, emphasis should be placed on the area of public relations and the image of the police officer and the police.
Greek police officers should once again feel proud of their mission, feel safe and protected by the State and live with dignity for themselves and their families.
Reconciliation of Greek Citizens with the Security Bodies
It is necessary to restore relations of trust and cooperation between citizens and the mechanisms for the prosecution of crime.
Upgrading and strengthening of the Fire Brigade
- Supply of the necessary equipment with the latest technology.
- Recruitment of around 3 000 firefighters to fill the existing vacancies.
- Seasonal firefighters will be rewarded with extra points if and when they wish to be recruited to a permanent vacant post and meet the qualifications set out in the relevant call for applications.
The study of the real dimensions of crime
Greece is still the only member-state of the European Union that does not have an Institute of Anti-Crime Policy.
We hope that we will soon cease to have this negative specificity at European level.
The immediate priorities of the ND are the following:
- The study of the real dimensions of crime.
- The establishment of the Institute of Anticrime Policy.
- Establishment of the Institute for Judicial Studies and Penitentiary Policy.
The State does not support research at any level.
If the research on crime had been supported, today we would know much more and at the same time the budget would have been paid back many times over and we would have avoided many mistakes as a country that expose us internationally, create panic among the public and squander without planning large sums of money from the taxation of Greek citizens.
Complementary policies:
- The elimination of the dysfunctions observed from the trichotomization of the Hellenic Police, due to the institutionalization of the special Police Services of the Border Guard and special guards, with simultaneous consolidation and upgrading of their professional development.
- The development of a rational and long-term immigration policy.
- The fight against organised crime.
- Changing the policy on drug use and trafficking.
- Ensure coordination and cooperation between the various public order and security bodies under different Ministries.
- Change the legislation on the use of weapons by police officers.
- Accelerate the pace of criminal justice.
- Radically reform the penitentiary system.
Man has finally realised that he is not something separate from the environment, but an integral part of it.
Therefore, when the environment "suffers", man himself suffers.
The realisation of this simple truth was the prerequisite for the activation of every human society to prevent actions that harm the environment, to adopt and implement rules for the protection and improvement of the environment and to take measures to repair the damage that has already occurred.
Sustainable environmental protection is now recognised as a fundamental human right, alongside the rights to life, liberty, freedom, work, justice, equal treatment, etc.
Article 37 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union states that: "A high level of protection and improvement of the quality of the environment must be integrated into the policies of the Union and ensured in accordance with the principle of sustainable development".
The New Republic fully recognises the human right to a sustainable, healthy and safe environment that is fit for life and conducive to the well-being of the population.
For this reason, the environmental policy of the New Democracy is harmoniously integrated in all the sub-sectors of its governmental policy (Agriculture, Industry, Tourism, Public Works, etc.).
An essential component of the ND's policy on the environment is the activation and strengthening of civil society, raising public awareness and encouraging it to take initiatives, in cooperation with the competent authorities at central, regional and local level.
The recognition of the human right to sustainable environmental protection implies the imposition of individual and collective duties and responsibilities in order to make the right a reality at the political, moral and legal levels.
Only in this way can we protect and improve the environment, the "home of humanity".
Despite the allocation of huge amounts of money, amounting to around €600 million from the CSF and the Specific Programmes, for projects and actions of environmental interest, environmental problems remain largely unsolved and the country's environmental image is deteriorating.
This is due to the absence of political will to implement an effective environmental and spatial policy.
On the other hand, our country is being referred to the European Court of Justice for breaches of Community law.
The most important problems are:
- The smog after Athens and Thessaloniki extends to large provincial cities and is enriched with new toxic and carcinogenic pollutants.
- The areas of burnt forest are increasing, reforestation is being reduced to a minimum and forest land is being given away to trespassers.
- Desertification tends to cover one third of the country, due to deforestation and soil erosion.
- The absence of a water policy is evidenced by the disasters that occur either in periods of heavy rainfall or in times of drought, while groundwater saturation threatens large coastal areas of the country.
- Urban wastewater treatment is not completed.
According to the E.E., our country is ranked in one of the last positions.
- In the solid waste sector, the lack of planning and the deadly solutions of landfills (XYTA) have exacerbated rather than solved the problem.
- Failure to address the huge problem of treatment and disposal of toxic and hazardous liquid and solid waste.
- Habitats and ecosystems are degraded and endemic fauna and flora are threatened.
- Greece, alone among the 15, is increasing rather than decreasing its use of natural resources in relation to its GDP.
Under the present conditions of the current level of development of science and technology, the environment is a key factor for the well-being and development of present and future generations.
Environmental policy is complemented by the protection of renewable natural resources and the rational use of non-renewable resources.
The New Republic embraces and incorporates in its Environmental Programme the internationally accepted principles of environmental policy.
The first basic principle of our environmental policy is to ensure citizen participation in the formulation and implementation of environmental measures.
Other key principles of our environmental policy:
- Principle of prevention.
It is infinitely better to prevent than to deal with this degradation after it has already taken place.
- The precautionary principle.
In many cases, environmental disasters are foreseeable.
It is therefore necessary to take precautionary measures in areas at risk.
- Principle of origin.
Environmental problems are most effectively tackled at source.
- Principle of integration.
According to this principle, environmental policy is harmoniously integrated into all other government policies.
- The 'polluter pays' principle.
Whoever pollutes the environment bears the cost of preventing or eliminating pollution.
- The 'non-polluter pays' principle, which means providing incentives, prizes and other distinctions for companies that apply clean technologies.
- The principle of efficiency (cost-benefit).
Environmental Policy Bodies The
coverage by the public administration of environmental policy making and implementation issues is inferior to the importance currently attached to these issues.
Our country, despite its promises, is not implementing a sustainable development policy in practice, as the basic planning is missing.
The low effectiveness of the significant amounts allocated to our country by the EU for environmental protection projects and actions is largely due to the inability of the state to invest these funds properly and to use them rationally.
We envisage: the administrative upgrading, staffing and strengthening of state services responsible for the environment.
- Organization and staffing of regional, prefectural and municipal environmental services and provision of the necessary financial and technical resources.
- Establish uniform rules for environmental controls and ensure that they are implemented in a uniform manner.
- Organise the participation of non-governmental organisations, private bodies, in environmental policy making at all levels.
- Strengthen applied environmental research and develop Regulations and Codes of Practice for the implementation of measures imposed by legislation.
Safeguarding the health of the population The
overarching objective of the environmental policy of the ND is to protect the health of the population.
All measures to protect and improve the environment are designed and implemented according to their contribution to achieving this overarching objective.
In addition, we predict:
- Strengthening epidemiological study programmes to identify environmental factors and substances that have an impact on the health of the population.
- Cooperation and transfer to our country of the relevant technology from the competent services of the EU and individual Member States.
- Systematic information to the Community on the protection of health and the creation of the conditions for the development of environmental medicine.
- Take measures to prevent and manage the situation in the event of major industrial accidents.
Spatial planning and environmental protection To
a significant extent, environmental problems are fundamentally spatial and arise from a lack of proper planning and implementation.
This often leads to the development of incompatible activities on the same site or the establishment of activities on sites that are not suitably equipped.
Many of the environmental protection projects and many of the expenditure and actions to prevent or remedy damage to the environment would not be necessary if there was a proper spatial policy.
We give priority to the correct spatial distribution of various productive, investment and other human activities with two objectives:
(a) the protection of the environment and
(b) the improvement of the efficiency of the national economy and society.
To this end, the ND will complete the National Spatial Plan at a rapid pace and will specify it at regional and local level.
Economy and the Environment The
sustainable policy of the ND, as it is developed and planned to be implemented, will in no way negatively affect the rates of economic growth that we seek.
In many cases, environmental policy measures and projects will make a positive contribution to creating employment opportunities and income generation.
In the development we are pursuing in all sectors (agriculture, tourism, manufacturing, energy, etc.), the rational environmental policy we apply always has the criterion of sustainability.
Our criteria are competitiveness for the economy and effectiveness for measures to protect the environment and especially natural resources.
Public Information - Environmental Education
The effectiveness of environmental policy measures depends significantly on the degree of participation of the population in the design and implementation of environmental protection measures.
Many environmental problems would not exist or would not be as intense as they are today if people had more environmental information.
The New Democracy will seek the active participation of citizens in the implementation of environmental policy.
This will be done by any appropriate means, such as:
- General information programmes of popularised knowledge of environmental issues.
- Cooperation with MMEs to become, on a daily basis, "sponsors of communication" on environmental issues.
- Specific information programmes in areas where projects with an environmental dimension are to be carried out.
- Introduction of environmental protection at all levels of education.
Atmospheric Pollution The
intensity of air pollutant emissions in Greece is still particularly high as a consequence of the implementation of fragmented measures to tackle air pollution.
The average per capita emissions of pollutants are higher than the Community average for many pollutants.
Our Programme foresees harmonisation and compliance with European directives and international obligations within the timeframes foreseen.
Priority is given to large urban centres (Athens, Thessaloniki, etc.), but also to other areas where the health problem of the population is high.
We predict:
- Rational use of energy and promotion of alternative forms of energy.
- Environmental traffic management.
Use of anti-pollution technology in public transport.
- Intensify controls in industry and on all sources of pollution.
- Creating green spaces in urban centres and in the suburban environment.
Solid Waste Management
The absence or failure of the environmental policy of the governments of the PASOK is clearly visible in the field of solid waste management.
Waste and solid waste from industry and other sectors of the economy are choking our country.
Without exaggeration, we present a picture of a third world country.
Greece is the only country that has been punished by the European Court of Justice for the unacceptable disposal of municipal solid waste.
Today there are around 1,300 uncontrolled landfills.
The N.D. aims to address the serious problem of solid waste management in a realistic and integrated way.
Specifically, we foresee the following:
- Implementation of an integrated urban waste management system.
- Adoption of an integrated urban waste management system.
- Promote rapidly the sorting and recycling of recycled materials.
- Organise and modernise the system of temporary storage, collection and transport and strengthen source separation.
- Rehabilitate uncontrolled waste disposal sites.
Liquid Waste Management A
major problem is the fact that many of the existing wastewater treatment plants are not functioning at all or are not functioning satisfactorily.
There are also many sewerage and wastewater treatment projects in sensitive areas still to be done.
The measures envisaged:
- Completion of sewerage and biological treatment projects, with priority given to areas where there is already a serious problem.
- Manure to ensure that biological treatment plants operate effectively.
- Intensify controls to tackle the uncontrolled disposal of toxic liquid waste.
Soil Resources
One of the most important problems that the Greek environment has been facing for decades is the continuous degradation of soils due to soil erosion, waterlogging and the indiscriminate use of fertilizers and pesticides.
Because of the enormous importance of our land resources, for present and future generations, our Programme gives absolute priority to soil protection measures.
Our Rural Development Programme contains many agricultural policy measures relating to soil protection.
In addition to these, we foresee the following:
- Rational use of fertilisers and pesticides, information of producers and intensification of controls.
- The adoption of measures to protect soils from waterlogging.
- Implementation of environmentally friendly farming techniques.
- Reinforcement of plant cover on sloping and mountainous soils.
- Use of agri-environmental measures and programmes provided for by the CAP.
Water Resources The
New Democracy, with its Programmes for the Environment and Rural Development, emphasises and gives priority to measures for the protection, improvement and rational use of the country's water resources.
To this end, the following are foreseen:
- Utilisation of the National Water Resources Management Agency, whose task is to implement an integrated programme for the rational management, protection and utilisation of water resources.
- Standard specifications for new wells and control of pumping.
- Exploitation of surface water in areas at risk of waterlogging and implementation of aquifer recharge projects.
- Construction of small dams and reservoirs in mountainous and island areas.
- Monitoring the quality and quantity of water in transboundary rivers and implementing joint programmes with neighbouring countries.
Forest and Mountain Environment
Taking into account the enormous importance of forests and woodlands for the ecological balance and the quality of the environment, our Programme places particular emphasis on the protection, improvement and rational management of these areas.
To this end we provide:
- Compilation of the Forest Inventory and Forest Cadastre and final determination of land use.
- Finalisation of fire protection measures.
- Significant increase in artificial reforestation.
- Promote the natural regeneration of forests.
- Monitor, study and rehabilitate areas at risk of flooding.
- Take measures to prevent desertification of forest areas and rehabilitate degraded forest ecosystems.
- Redefine the boundaries of National Parks and establish new ones.
Marine Environment and Coasts The
sea and the coasts are the most intense elements of the Greek environment and the most important tourist attractions.
It is therefore one of the most important economic resources of our country.
The Greek seas are the cleanest in the Mediterranean and the whole of Europe. It is our duty to keep them clean and safe forever.
The measures we foresee are:
- Cooperation with the other Mediterranean countries and the EU for the protection of the Mediterranean Sea.
- Take preventive measures to prevent pollution of our seas.
- Intensify controls to prevent the discharge of untreated sewage into protected marine areas.
- Develop and implement a land-use plan for the development of marine fisheries.
- Intensify controls to prevent illegal and predatory fishing.
- Ensure that the problem of coastal degradation is not exacerbated.
- In cooperation with local authorities and the social partners in each region, restoring the coastline through a consensual process.
- Special attention to the integrated management of coastal areas.
Protection of the Natural Environment (Habitats, Wetlands, Biodiversity)
Greece has great biological wealth (more than many other countries in Europe and the world) in all its forms: species, species varieties, ecosystems, landscapes.
Our country's biological and natural resources remain to a significant extent unused and unprotected.
It is our duty to preserve and make good use of our natural environment.
Many of the measures in our Rural Development Programme relate to the protection of the natural environment.
In addition, we predict:
- Compilation and implementation of a national programme for NATURA habitats, in order to qualify for funding from the new EU programme.
- Delimitation of NATURA habitats in a way that does not exclude investments for development and employment in their wider area.
- Elaboration of an integrated management plan for protected areas, with emphasis on the ownership issue and the benefits-incentives to the local population.
- Protection and enhancement of the natural environment.
Unauthorised Building
The greatest ecological disaster that has occurred in our country in recent decades is due to the anarchic, uncontrolled and arbitrary building activity.
The problem of unauthorised construction is huge, especially in areas of holiday homes and first homes.
Dealing with this problem is not easy.
The ND will approach the solution of the problem with a spirit of social justice, with environmental sensitivity and with the implementation of acceptable solutions in the framework of spatial and urban planning, with priority in areas of large concentrations of arbitrary buildings and in environmentally sensitive areas.
An essential component of the ND's policy on the environment is the activation and strengthening of civil society, raising public awareness and encouraging it to take initiatives, in cooperation with the competent authorities at central, regional and local level.
Greek culture is universal.
It has offered humanity unique achievements, has creatively assimilated other cultural elements and is the basis of Western civilization.
This "dictates" respect for other cultures and an awareness of our strong common cultural references with the Western world.
Self-consciousness is a prerequisite for the preservation of our national identity, but also for our creative participation in a multiculturalism on equal terms.
Language, understanding and creative knowledge of our cultural and religious tradition and of our past and present creativity constitute the starting point and means for forging a common European identity.
For the New Democracy, Culture functions as a vehicle for the transition to the open world.
Culture unites.
It belongs to everyone.
State-party divisions in this area are unthinkable.
The New Democracy:
- It wants creators free, dignified, creatively challenged.
- It considers private initiative an important factor in the production and promotion of culture.
- Believes that cultural institutions are important factors in the production of culture.
- Tima the sponsors and benefactors of culture and will endeavour to ensure that a spirit of giving prevails in the country.
- It will honour morally and materially the creators, artists and contributors of culture.
- It considers that collectors and legal owners of objects-creations of our heritage contribute to its preservation.
- It seeks to shape citizens with a culture that is reflected in every expression of everyday life.
- It will take structured measures to involve young people in cultural goods and to facilitate the expression of young artists.
- It considers it the right of every citizen to have access to cultural events and goods, from childhood to adulthood - especially for the most vulnerable citizens.
- It invests in decentralisation through local authorities, cultural institutions and foundations, and non-governmental organisations.
Today, the state not only fails to educate citizens in aesthetics and to set the framework for facilitating and encouraging creators, but also takes the lead in the brutal violation of aesthetics.
His choices are dominated by party advantage.
Few faces and their courts oppress cultural life.
Dependencies on powerful state-owned business interests, which control the M.M.E., do not allow for equality.
Culture is underfunded.
Huge European funds are not used due to ignorance of the procedures.
The European programmes are only for a few.
Billions are being squandered for the benefit of "day labourers".
The structured cultural policy of the New Democracy:
- Educates the citizens aesthetically.
- It makes Greece a pioneer in the field of culture and a centre of cultural education, important regional institutions and events of wider international scope.
- It fosters respect for national heritage and other cultures.
- It creates the infrastructure - and sets the framework for the development of creativity.
Increase and rationalise spending on culture.
- Evaluates programmes, events, policies, institutions, staff.
- Provides incentives and encourages private initiative.
- It supports decentralisation.
- It is in constant contact with the Hellenic community.
- Encourages the participation of all citizens in intellectual and cultural activities.
- It makes creative use of new technologies.
- It shall be in touch with contemporary currents of thought and creativity.
- It shall use established creators as role models and recognise their contribution.
- Provides opportunities and resources for young creators.
- It activates non-governmental organisations.
The cultural policy is exercised in a way that avoids monopolistic situations and is mainly financed by the state budget, the Local Administration, which is supported by the State with all the necessary resources, the private sector (sponsorships, donations, benefactions), the T.A.P, from the O.P.A.P., from gambling, from European programmes, from the collection of copyright, from the 1.5% that the channels are obliged to pay for film productions, etc.
The big breakthrough is that the heavy tax on sponsorships is reduced.
Control ensures the actual flow of funds to cultural purposes.
The national cultural policy is set by the State.
The YPTO plays an essential executive and coordinating role and implements cultural policy.
The Hellenic Festival is also part of it.
The Ministry of Culture cooperates with the University of Thessaloniki, the Ministry of Press and the media, which are key levers of political culture.
Completing the educational pyramid with higher education studies in Artistic Education (where there is a gap) and in the management and organisation of cultural events.
Culture is essentially integrated into the school curriculum (integration of artistic creation, artistic interventions, cultural events institutions, educational programmes of museums, teacher training, internet).
- Decentralisation of resources and responsibilities to local government.
- Creation of Cultural Information Centres in the Regions for European and Greek programmes.
Providing information and expertise to local actors to submit projects for funding.
- Programmes of travelling exhibitions, performances, training programmes.
- Financing of local authorities on specific programmes through the signing of contracts.
- Training of local government officials.
Long-term planning for the creation in each wider region of Greece of a Cultural Centre, which will operate as a national autonomous organisation in the form of a private foundation with the participation of the Local Government.
Support for regional festivals based on quality, audience response and contribution to regional development.
Creation of a Floating Cultural Centre called "The Voice of the Aegean".
This Floating Centre will carry all the cultural forces (Theatre, Music, Dance) of the Cultural Centres, as well as Free Sponsored Artistic Units to all our islands.
Any monument (ancient, medieval, modern or contemporary) can neither be abandoned nor crushed by uncontrolled surrounding building masses.
For each monument, especially of urban type, a special study of interventions in the surrounding urban space with incentives for private individuals is needed.
Emphasis is placed on recruiting highly qualified staff with transparent procedures and planning.
Solving the problem of temporary archaeologists with fairness, timing and dialogue.
- Rational distribution and staffing of decentralised offices.
- The museums are oriented towards the educational function.
- Historical theme parks with an educational character are created.
- In places with a strong global symbolic content, elegant, complete information, display, etc. facilities are being created.
Popular culture is a key parameter of regional development and retention of the rural population.
An independent directorate in the YPTO coordinates all stakeholders.
Our policy aims to activate the private sector and create a national cinema that is internationally distinguished.
For this reason, a policy is urgently needed to:
- Increase capital in the production sector;
- Export orientation of Greek films;
- Upgrading of film education;
- Equal opportunities for all - young and old alike.
- Reduction of VAT at all stages of film production.
- Implementation of the law requiring financial support for film production by all national channels.
- Return of the entire tax to the cinema for the production of new films.
Today about 30% is not reimbursed.
- Establishment of a Film and Audiovisual Academy with excellent infrastructure, providing high quality higher education services.
Greece claims a global role in performances and in the "school" of ancient drama.
The state theatres bear the main burden of the international theatrical presence of our country.
Grants to private theatres are awarded on the basis of quality and professionalism.
Policies are followed to strengthen the Greek repertoire.
a) Financial support from the Ministry of Culture, based on quality and their contribution to regional cultural development.
b) Institutional protection and support, in order to serve the theatrical needs of the region.
- A large exhibition hall shall be created in Athens.
- Establishment of a multi-purpose art centre at YFANET in Thessaloniki.
- National book policy.
The book is part of the overall policy for the support of the Greek language.
- In cooperation with the Frankfurt International Book Fair, an international regional book fair is organised in Thessaloniki.
- Establishment of libraries in all schools.
- Reduction of VAT on book paper.
- Reduction of the book and angel tax.
- Establishment of an Academy of Music and Dance.
- Adoption of a more balanced policy towards musical genres.
- Construction of a modern building for the National Opera House, worthy of its history and role.
Making good use of its potential.
- Modernising legislation on music and dance studies.
Clarification of the levels of music education.
Creation of spaces equipped for photography exhibitions in urban centres.
Inclusion of photography exhibitions in the Museums.
A programme of photography exhibitions in public gathering or transit areas (e.g. stations).
- Use of New Technologies for the recording, protection and conservation of cultural heritage.
- Educational programmes on the Internet for the teaching of Hellenic Culture and the teaching of the Greek language.
- Establishment of a scientific, diplomatic and legal team to inform and intervene with modern technological tools when there is a lack of information about Greek culture or its distortion.
- The institution of Theorists is established: free entrance to cultural venues for artists, cultural workers, teachers, journalists, pupils, students, unemployed, the third age, people with special needs.
- The cultural expression of returning Greeks is encouraged and strengthened through special programmes and their heritage is preserved and disseminated.
- The Greek creators abroad are listed.
A museum is created with a permanent exhibition of works by Greeks of the diaspora;
- Infrastructures are created for access to all cultural venues for people with special needs;
- The necessary framework is created and special programmes are developed for the recording of the culture of our fellow citizens in Rome, as well as for the strengthening and promotion of their cultural expression;
- Special programmes of cultural activities for children, young people, the elderly, economic migrants and prisoners are developed and implemented.
The Culture Policy also covers everyday life, fashion, jewellery, food, design, media and media.
Tourism is now the largest sector of the global economy.
Globally, it represents 12 % of private consumption, 6 % of GDP and 7 % of total employment.
It is the fastest growing activity in the traditional economy.
Over the last 20 years, global tourism flows have grown at an annual rate of 4.6% and tourism receipts at 9%.
These rates are well above the average rate of expansion of the international economy.
The World Tourism Organisation (WTO) predicts that by 2010 cross-border tourist movements will exceed 1 billion and by 2020 they will exceed 1.5 billion.
It also estimates that the average growth rate of international tourist flows will reach 4.1% over the next twenty years.
Europe is expected to achieve an average annual increase in arrivals of around 3%.
Based on previous estimates, the tourism industry will continue to be the fastest growing sector of the global economy over the next twenty years.
For Greece, tourism is:
- The greatest comparative advantage that unfortunately remains untapped.
_ The total benefits to the economy from tourism production, with the complementary actions, the dependent sectors and the multiplier effects determined directly or indirectly by tourism demand, range from approximately 18% to 20% of GDP.
_ Moreover, tourism is an important driver of regional development, especially in areas that lack other productive capacities, especially today when the Greek region is suffering from high and structural unemployment.
Greek tourism has been experiencing, in recent years, a prolonged crisis with a significant decrease in arrivals and overnight stays in almost all tourist destinations and an even greater drop in tourism revenues, with devastating effects on the course of the sector and chain effects on the economy as a whole.
- According to a recent report by the Athens University of Economics and Business, Greece was the world's leading holiday destination in 1992.
After 10 years of "modernisation" (in 2002), it fell to 15th place.
- In the last two years, we have lagged significantly behind.
In the period 2002-2004, our economy has lost around €2 billion.
At the same time, in Italy, Spain and Portugal, tourist traffic is increasing, while Greece is the only one of the Mediterranean countries in Europe where tourism is declining.
- The organisation and promotion of alternative and special forms of tourism is in a state of flux.
- The sector is plagued by the phenomenon of extreme seasonality.
- Advertising is completely sloppy, cumbersome, untimely, with reduced budgets and no market research.
A typical example is last year, when the advertising campaign was launched in the heart of the tourist season, when all potential customers had already departed for their chosen destinations.
- The integration and absorption in the operational programmes of the third CSF, particularly for actions concerning small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs), is minimal, due to the conditions and bureaucratic red tape.
- There is no major private investment in the sector.
- There are no controls by the relevant state bodies.
- Tourism education is lagging behind and does not meet the modern requirements of the sophisticated tourism market and new products.
- The exploitation of the huge assets of the E.O.T. is turning into a sale by E.T.A. S.A. with opaque and non-transparent procedures that provoke public feeling and damage the country's international reputation.
- The linking of the tourist product with the 2004 Olympic Games, its promotion and exploitation constitute a major missed opportunity.
- The dissolution of the E.O.T. and the continuing administrative fragmentation of the state tourism services have created a chaotic situation in the sector and do not allow a uniform and credible tourism policy to be formulated, since central coordination is lacking.
We need, at last, a long-term strategy to:
- Get high-quality tourism.
- Attract more visitors.
- Get better quality tourism and more tourists.
- Make the most of the hundreds of development opportunities in the Region.
- Promote alternative forms of tourism in rural and mountainous areas.
Greece, as a country, has natural resources of unparalleled beauty to attract tourists.
Moreover, it is a country of culture and history with a huge wealth of monuments.
The Greek food, the hospitality, the good attitude and our special mild climate, together with all the above, make up a country unique in the world that can meet all the requirements of the visitor.
If there was a basic tourism policy, we believe that imported tourism would be twice as many tourists as today and three times as much as today in terms of revenue.
This assessment is derived from the course of the countries around us that in recent years have been increasing their share of tourism at a high rate (e.g. Turkey - Croatia).
- Establishment of a Ministry of Tourism as a body for planning and formulating a single policy on a long-term basis and with the cooperation of tourism stakeholders. -
Reconstitution and reorganisation of the E.O.T. as a body for implementing tourism policy (executive arm of the Ministry of Tourism);
- Upgrading of the National Tourism Council to make it the main advisory body to the state, so that the contribution of the social partners is institutionalised and substantial.
Simplification of the institutional framework for entrepreneurship
- Simplification and decentralisation of the licensing system for tourism businesses.
The number of documents required for the issue of operating licences is limited to the minimum necessary.
- Take measures to reduce bureaucracy and define clear and objective criteria on the basis of which Schengen visas will be issued to consulates of countries of particular tourist interest (Russia, China, Eastern European countries).
- Repeal those provisions of laws which have remained inactive for years and codify the legislation on tourism.
- Rationalise the classification system for hotels and accommodation and extend it to other tourism businesses.
Privatisation - Liberalisation of markets
- Untying of enterprises offering complementary services to tourism.
- Establish an institutional framework that will allow the private sector to participate actively in the development and exploitation of tourism infrastructure projects such as marinas, golf courses, sports centres, conference and exhibition centres and theme parks.
- Use of public property controlled by E.T.A. SA in a transparent manner.
Improvement and integration of infrastructure
a. Transport Infrastructure
- Modernisation of existing regional airports and expansion of those that cannot serve charter flights.
- Accelerate the completion of the national core network through self-financing.
- Take an initiative at Community level for the immediate conversion of the E10 axis (Monacho - Thessaloniki) into a closed motorway.
- Co-financing, within the framework of the national policy for the reconstruction of the Balkans, the construction of the vertical roads linking the Greek motorway with the capitals of the neighbouring countries.
This will increase road tourism by enhancing tourist flows to the resorts of Northern Greece and will improve the seasonal pattern of tourism on islands that do not have airports capable of handling charter flights.
b. Regional and Local Infrastructures
- Strengthening the logistical infrastructure and human resources of the services involved in the implementation of the third CSF projects
- Transparency and control in the procedures for the award and implementation of regional projects.
- Approval of the recruitment of the necessary staff by the local authorities to improve planning and speed up the award of projects considered to be of strategic importance for the development of tourism in each region.
c. Social Infrastructure
- Supporting the OTAs to implement projects and improve services linked to the tourism product.
- Promote immediately the projects for the functional and aesthetic upgrading of all the country's entry points, since they are the first and last impression for every foreign visitor.
- Upgrading of museums and development of children's sections in their premises.
Museology in Greece is at 1940 levels.
Our museums must be transformed from relics of the past, with the help of modern technology, into places of living contact with our history and tradition.
Boosting entrepreneurship and private investment
α. Strengthening Entrepreneurship
- Simplification of business transactions with public services (removal of bureaucratic red tape).
- Enforcing rules of transparency and healthy competition in the tourism market.
- Removing disincentives to the establishment and operation of tourism businesses.
- A specific programme to strengthen strategic alliances and mergers of similar tourism businesses.
- Ensuring equal access for private enterprises to the public goods and public tourism resources necessary for their operation.
- Exemption of owners of rented rooms from the obligation to be covered by TEBE, since they are insured in another main fund.
- Reduction of airport charges for charter flights during the winter period, in order to boost winter tourism development efforts.
- Abolition of the obligation to pay tax in favour of O.T.A. for the issue of printed advertising leaflets by tourist businesses.
β. Support for private investment
- Preparation of a new, comprehensive Development Law that will make it attractive for the attraction and development of investments while maintaining a stable tax system.
- The new Development Law will help:
- The modernisation of the existing hotel and other tourism businesses (tourist offices, leisure boats, car rentals, etc.).
- Subsidies for special tourist infrastructure projects (golf courses, marinas, conference centres, etc.).
- To support projects aimed at saving energy, water and protecting the environment.
- Subsidising projects to enrich the tourism offer (e.g. theme parks and special tourism facilities).
- Improving the quality of complementary tourism services (transport services, catering services, equipment rental, etc.).
- The creation of new beds in border and nationally sensitive areas, such as Thrace and the small Aegean islands.
- To objectify and simplify the system for evaluating investment proposals.
- A high rate of subsidies for projects that help to extend the tourist season, increase employment, protect the environment and enrich the tourist product.
This incentive will be applied horizontally throughout the country and will be granted for both the modernisation of existing and the creation of new units.
Alternative and special forms of tourism (enrichment of the tourism product)
- The organisation and development of alternative and special forms of tourism (agrotourism, action tourism, health tourism, sports tourism, religious tourism, etc.)
- The support of the creation of theme parks where there is a corresponding investment interest from the private sector (e.g. the Mythology Park of Ancient Greece).
- The promotion of Greece as a cradle of culture and European history by exploiting our cultural wealth through tourism under the motto: 'Greece, land of Culture and History'.
- The release of public spaces for the creation of leisure centres (golf course complexes, sports and cultural facilities).
- Investing in a long-term plan to attract older people, as they are the ones who have the time and financial resources to travel outside the peak season.
- Exploiting medical tourism (health tourism).
- Strengthening the creation of large modern conference and exhibition centres.
Improving the competitiveness of Greek tourism
- Reduction of indirect charges caused by deficiencies in basic infrastructure (delays at airports, ports, etc.)
- Abolition of payments to third parties that are not contributory.
- The control of the quality of services provided.
- The enrichment of the tourism product with new services that attract customers from higher income groups.
- Reducing the tax burden on businesses and establishing a stable tax regime.
- Rationalisation of the depreciation system, with a view to boosting investment in modernisation and improving the balance sheets of businesses.
- the preparation of a sectoral accounting plan covering the specificities of tourism enterprises.
Improving productivity - Reducing indirect labour costs
The New Democracy intends to:
- Facilitate dialogue between the social partners (employers and employees) to resolve the problems faced by seasonal businesses. -
encourage part-time employment for groups with limited access to the labour market (students, young people, women, etc.);
- To subsidise work instead of giving benefits to the seasonally unemployed.
This will keep more tourist businesses open during the winter season.
Communication planning (Promotion)
- The E.O.T. is responsible for the communication planning and promotion of the Greek tourism product as well as the coordination of the promotion activities of the Region. -
Encourage the creation of joint ventures for the promotion and promotion of specific forms of tourism with the participation of the operators, local authorities, tourism entrepreneurs and the EOT;
- Allocate a sufficient and necessary amount of money annually for promotion and advertising abroad.
- Continuous promotion of our comparative advantages.
Our excellence in hospitality, culture, climate and environment is undeniable.
- Maximising the promotion of Greece's image through a programme of relations with international media and alliances with international organisations and states.
- Exploitation of events organised by Hellenic expatriates and educational exchanges to promote the Greek product.
- Strengthening of local initiatives for the collective promotion of tourism businesses on the Internet, in order to exploit the possibilities offered by modern technology for direct communication with potential customers.
Tourism education The
New Republic is committed to:
- Establish a single body to supervise tourism education and training, covering all levels of study and all specialisations, under the auspices of the Ministry of Education.
The management of the new body will include institutional representation of the social partners in the sector.
- To proceed with the establishment of study departments in the A.E.I. of the Region.
- Strengthen the creation of postgraduate courses and research activity on the problems of the sector.
- To finance vocational training and education programmes for the self-employed, owners of small tourism enterprises and in-company training in all SMEs in the sector employing up to 10 people.
Tourist exploitation of the Olympic Games
In other countries where the Games took place (Spain - Australia) they exploited them in a touristic way with integrated programmes, planning their actions four years in advance and making the most of their promotion to a worldwide audience with 40 billion hours of free television, using the event to attract the interest of media and journalists, so as to promote the advantages of their countries.
Unfortunately, the Government did not understand either the size and complexity of the project or the uniqueness of the opportunity that is being lost.
Instead of capitalizing on the opportunity of the Games for our tourism industry with the strategic axis of the slogan "Greece, country of Culture and History" and with specific actions to highlight the event and exploit the great advantage for our tourism, he left things to their fate.
The New Democracy coming to power will have very little time for last-minute actions.
We will strive for the best for the short period before the Games, but we are also planning the post-Olympic directions.
Promoting sustainable tourism development
The New Republic intends to:
- To implement a new model of tourism development in our country, based on a long-term planning and with the cooperation of the stakeholders involved in the tourism product.
- To impose more effective surveillance of tourist areas, in order to establish the advantage of a safe destination and to limit any arbitrary actions that discredit the image of our tourist destinations (noise pollution, environmental abuse, arbitrary construction, unfair speculation, etc.).
- Promote the immediate completion of urban planning and the determination of land use for all tourist areas, excluding abusive concessions and land encroachment, in order to adequately safeguard sensitive tourist resources (beaches, water resources, forest areas, landscapes of particular natural beauty, archaeological and historical sites).
The New Democracy believes that it is imperative that a joint long-term action plan be drawn up between the government and tourism stakeholders in a spirit of mutual trust, setting ambitious goals.
It is necessary that the relationship between the public and private sector in the field of tourism, from a relationship of dependence of the latter on the former to a relationship of cooperation in the direction of development.
For the New Republic, tourism development is a top priority option.
We believe that the participation of Greek tourism in the global tourism market is too small for the country's potential.
But the most important thing is to attract high-income tourism.
The result should not only be measured in terms of the number of incoming tourists, but also in terms of the economic impact of the tourist activity.
Planning, organisation and vision are needed to realise the objectives of quality and competitiveness.
We believe that we have these resources to upgrade Greek tourism.
Our goal is "Tourism all 12 months of the year".
The Greek Shipping Industry is a key pillar supporting the national economy, offering significant resources, mainly from its international activity.
The relevant study of the University of Piraeus revealed that:
- The gross value added created by the activity of the shipping industry both at home and abroad corresponds to 4.7% of the total gross value added of the economy.
- The total number of jobs both on board and on land created by shipping is estimated at 6% of total employment.
- The wages of Greeks employed on board ships, in shipping offices and those who produced goods and services to meet the demand provided by the shipping activity, account for 8.3% of total dependent labour income.
Unfortunately for our country, the timidity of the governments of the PASOK over a number of years in adopting measures to improve the international competitiveness of the shipping industry has caused a major shrinkage in the national register, weakening the links of this international shipping activity with the national economy: the percentage of the Greek flag in the total tonnage of the Greek-owned fleet has decreased from 44% in 1993 to 33% in 2002.
At the same time, the Greeks hold 17% of the world tonnage and 50% of the European Union's shipping, which will rise to about 70% after the entry of Cyprus and Malta.
They also account for 25% of new shipbuilding worldwide, which guarantees the maintenance of Greece's position in international shipping.
The recent reduction of tax rates on seafarers' income and on ship taxation is a move in the right direction.
It should be noted, however, that the government of the PASOK had abolished the tax-free allowance and had significantly increased the tax rates on the income of Greek seafarers in 1997, which had a negative impact on the competitiveness of the Greek ship.
The New Republic has consistently and consistently treated Merchant Shipping as a national capital, which provides wealth to the country, based exclusively on its own strengths and even under conditions of fierce international competition.
For this reason, it introduced in 1975 a stable and simple framework for the taxation of shipping activity, free of bureaucratic procedures that cause high compliance costs and, by extension, reduce competitiveness.
Our basic choice has traditionally been the most direct link between the shipping industry and the national economy, which is expressed in the following axes:
- Strengthening the competitiveness of the Greek flagged ship.
- The promotion of the competitiveness of the Greek flag ship.
- The creation of the maximum possible number of jobs, ensuring the career development of officers and the supply of Greek seafarers to meet these needs.
- The management of shipping activities by companies established in Greece. Our main objective is to develop Piraeus and the wider region of Attica into a major international shipping centre by exploiting the know-how that the country already possesses in the management of shipping and shipping-related activities, but also by enhancing ancillary activities such as banking, insurance, law and shipbuilding.
The maximum possible share of the added value created by the international activity of Greek-owned Merchant Shipping will be sought to remain in the country under competitive conditions.
- Establishment of the appropriate legislative framework for the financing of Greek merchant shipping through the XAA.
We believe that a necessary condition for addressing the fierce international competition in maritime transport and encouraging the relocation of shipping companies to Greece is the preservation of a stable institutional and financial framework regarding all aspects of its activity and with low compliance costs.
The aim of the ND is to create conditions of trust between the State and the maritime world.
For this reason, legislative initiatives that directly or indirectly affect the sector should also be co-decided by YEN.
The National Maritime Policy Council is upgraded to a strategic partner of the government for the formulation of an effective policy in international forums and the prevention of risks concerning the sustainability of Greek shipping.
Specifically for seafarers, we foresee a tax-free income, as a measure to reduce the cost of seafarers' labour, as applied in competitor countries.
Maritime education is a key factor in improving the international competitiveness of Greek shipping and strengthening its links with the national body.
However, on this crucial issue as well as on the ongoing training of seafarers, the interventions of the PASOK governments in recent years have not only failed to bring about a qualitative improvement, as required by international competition and international conventions, but have led to further complications since the renaming of the Merchant Navy schools as "academies" has not been combined with the allocation of the necessary resources and the upgrading of the training programmes.
In addition, the current regulations for graduates of the current TEEs make it more difficult for them to switch to the maritime profession through the Merchant Navy Academies, thus reducing the attraction of young people to the maritime profession from this source.
We foresee a radical restructuring of the maritime education system, with the aim of encouraging the attraction of young people to the maritime profession and their professional training, in accordance with the high standards imposed by new technologies and international treaties relating to maritime safety.
With the introduction of the Vocational Lyceum and the abolition of the TEEs, as well as the restoration of the IEK's status as training institutions, as provided for by the Education Programme, the vocational training of seafarers is placed on a new revised basis.
At the same time, with the equal treatment of vocational education with general education, the channel through which the graduates of the vocational high school of maritime or related fields will be trained and certified as masters or engineers of the Merchant Navy is broadened.
Recognition of the final diploma of Masters and Chief Engineers as equivalent to the AEI.
With this measure they are given the opportunity after the end of their sea service to be employed in high-value positions on land and to play an active role in the process of naval training and university postgraduate education from which they are currently excluded (Note: the ND has held a roll-call vote in Parliament on this issue).
At the same time, we are moving towards recognising the operation of private vocational high schools and IEKs, which will cover the vocational training of masters and engineers.
It is understood that all educational institutions, both private and public, will be subject to a common system of quality control and certification in accordance with international and Community standards for quality shipping.
The examinations for the certificate of seaworthiness will be conducted by the KESEN Centre for the Training of Merchant Navy Schools.
The Merchant Navy Academies are upgraded through (a) the reform of the system of recruitment, evaluation, training and development of their teaching staff and (b) the improvement of the material and technical infrastructure through the use of Community and national resources.
Encourage the use at all levels of education of the new possibilities of information technology through the use of multimedia and distance learning systems.
To facilitate the attraction of young people to the maritime profession, Maritime Vocational Schools will be set up in traditionally maritime areas, but also where unemployment rates among young people are particularly high.
Moreover, in order to improve the competitiveness of the Greek ship, the state will subsidise the cost of Greek cadets for both periods of sea service, as provided for by the system of sandwich courses.
It is a fact that the financial deadlock in which NAT has found itself is primarily due to a series of regulations by the state for the exercise of social policy without the allocation of corresponding resources to the fund, as well as to the flight of ships from the national register due to the policy of the governments of recent years.
But the mistakes of the past, for which the state is primarily responsible, should not be borne by today's seafarers and their acquired insurance rights.
For this reason the state will continue to cover the deficits of the current NAT and the new insurance scheme will apply to new entrants to the maritime profession.
In order to enhance the competitiveness of the Greek seafarer in specific cases and under certain conditions, the state will subsidise up to a certain percentage of employer contributions in order to maintain jobs at sea where competition conditions require it.
In relation to shipping, the New Republic places particular emphasis on the operation of free competition and the creation of high safety conditions in public transport.
At a time when new ships have been launched and passenger and vehicle traffic has increased, the country's ports remain in essentially the same state as they have been in for decades.
Despite warnings from the most competent people, the Merchant Navy masters, with specific proposals to address the shortages, the government did not proceed with the necessary investments.
The New Republic guarantees the continuous and effective coverage of the country's transport needs through quality, cost-effective and functional coastal shipping services.
We attach great importance to the efficient operation of the transport network with the island regions of the country, where it is not economically viable.
That is why we fully separate the economically viable from the non-economically viable ferry lines.
We are revising 2932/2001 to make it compatible with the European regulation 3577/1992 and to avoid referring our country to the European Court of Justice.
The network of routes and the standards required by a modern quality maritime service for secondary lines are determined by the State, which puts out a public tender with quality criteria in accordance with the rules of the European Union, in order to cover the needs with regular services throughout the year.
For the non-economically advantageous routes, a clear timetable is envisaged, accessible to passengers and vehicles, with quality criteria in accordance with the safety rules of the European Union, to meet needs, with regular services throughout the year.
The State will subsidise the additional costs resulting from the tender.
On economically viable lines, healthy competition will be encouraged, while at the same time removing state interventions that do not relate to compliance with safety and accident prevention rules and quality standards.
In order to make ferry services more affordable for the passenger and the islander, we abolish the 3% surcharge imposed by the government on the ticket price for the subsidy of secondary lines.
The cost of supporting island Greece should be borne by the state and not passed on to its inhabitants.
In order to ensure a more effective and uniform application of competition rules, the Maritime Transport Regulatory Authority (MRA) is abolished and its powers and staff are transferred to the Competition Committee.
We believe that adequate maritime interconnection must be ensured without distorting competition and without effectively abolishing the liberalisation of the maritime market.
The organisation of the universal service system should not impose restrictions that reduce market efficiency and effectively cancel out the benefits expected from liberalisation.
The current state of the port facilities is completely unacceptable, as the government is responsible for, as the recent accident and the problems that have arisen in the port of Heraklion have shown.
The development of modern port infrastructure, compatible with the newer vessels of the shipping industry and the needs of tourism, is envisaged as part of an integrated policy that encourages competition in the provision of port services, where feasible given the size and traffic of the port.
In large ports, it is envisaged that at least two independent producers of port services (e.g. loading and unloading, passenger services, etc.) may use the port superstructures.
That is why, under the responsibility of the state through transparent procedures, all procedures for granting access to the superstructures of major ports for the production of port services by companies other than the existing port funds are supervised.
- We seek the sustainable development of the Port Authorities with environmental planning with regard to their spatial planning and with responsibility towards the society of the city in which they are located.
The development of their functions is always with the city and its citizens in mind.
- We give priority to the construction of passenger terminals in ports similar to those at airports, since quality shipping is not only about the ship but also about the services enjoyed by the user in the port.
- We are shielding national ports through the adoption of the safety rules provided for by the ISPS Code.
- We strengthen the work of the General Secretariat for Ports and Port Policy and reduce bureaucracy and the complexity of the approval of port infrastructure projects.
Closely related to the efficient operation of ports is the issue of the implementation at national level of the European Programme for the Promotion of Short Sea Shipping, which provides for the encouragement of the shift of transport work from road to sea transport for environmental reasons.
Despite the importance of this issue for environmental reasons and the resolutions of the EU Council of Transport Ministers aimed at decongesting the roads, the government has no work to show in this area either.
We envisage solving the problems related to the simplification and standardisation of customs procedures, in a way that ensures the smooth flow in the movement of goods and the smooth coordination of sea and land transport work.
A prerequisite for the implementation of a successful maritime policy for the benefit of the national economy is the existence of a well-organised and efficient administrative body.
For this reason, the autonomy of the Ministry of Merchant Shipping is maintained in the context of the re-establishment of the state.
Also, in the context of the radical restructuring of the Public Administration, special care will be taken to continuously improve the knowledge of the Ministry's staff, mainly the Coast Guard, through training programmes covering technological developments in the field of shipping.
Also according to the Civil Service Programme, the provisions of the Civil Service Programme on linking pay to productivity will be implemented.
The Coast Guard is being upgraded in terms of equipment and personnel to meet the increased demands in the fight against illegal immigration, smuggling, safety of navigation
and protection of the marine environment
, as well as the modern challenges of the ever-increasing international competition in the field of shipping.
For the members of the Coast Guard, the commitments undertaken by the ND for the Armed Forces and the Security Forces apply.
Finally, maritime diplomacy is strengthened and the support of Greek shipping becomes one of the objectives we serve both at European and international level.
The main objective of the New Republic's policy is the development of marine tourism so that it can play a leading role in the entire Eastern Mediterranean.
In order to achieve this goal we are committed to effectively support the cruise industry, which is being tested by the indifference and inefficiency of the governments of the PASOK.
In the 2004 Olympic year, not a single cruise ship flying the Greek flag is participating in the Olympic hospitality programme.
We also look forward to creating a favourable environment for the development of the yahgting industry and the creation of modern infrastructure.
Strengthening the competitiveness of Greek-flagged professional yachts in order to approach European standards while developing the provision of modern services by crews at sea and by private individuals ashore.
Finally, efforts are being stepped up to create modern marinas that will respond to quality tourism.
Information and communication technologies are the main driver for raising the living standards of citizens.
They provide opportunities that we have never before had for modernising our society.
The creation of a human-centred Information Society that promotes economic growth and is universally addressed to citizens is now our common vision.
Our country continues to be a leader in the EU in terms of the integration and dissemination of information and communication technologies in society.
According to recent data from the European Union (Eurobarometer):
- The percentage of Internet users in Greece is 18%.
The average for all EU countries is 51%.
The next best performers are Portugal and Italy with 42% and 40% respectively.
- Home Internet access increased in all EU countries (40% on average), except in Greece, where it fell to 9% (from 10%).
The next best performers are Portugal and Spain, with 29% and 31% respectively.
- The gap between Greece and the EU countries is widening, as they are progressing at a much faster pace.
Greece is now referred to as the country that lags behind the other Member States in terms of Internet penetration. - In contrast to
all other EU countries, where the frequency of Internet use is increasing rapidly and is almost daily (average 83%), in Greece it has fallen dramatically, e.g. for daily use by 15 percentage points (from 34% to 19%);
- The percentage of Internet use for purchasing goods and services is lower than in all EU countries.
It is 4%, while the European average is 20%.
- The percentage of citizens who have communicated with the public administration via the Internet (e-government) in Greece has decreased and is the lowest in the EU, at 34%, while the European average is 49%.
- The rate of Internet use for finding a job (e-employment) and for searching for health information (e-health) is almost non-existent in Greece.
According to recent data from the OSA, Greece is characterised by:
- The lowest percentage of computer jobs (0.25%) among all EU countries (EU average 1.5%);
- The lowest growth rate in ICT jobs among all EU countries;
- The lowest percentage of web sites (3 per 1000 inhabitants) among all EU countries (EU average 16 per 1000 inhabitants). -
The lowest percentage of businesses with Internet access in all EU countries (55%);
- Equal participation of citizens in the Information Society.
- Protection of individual freedoms and personal data.
- Provision of integrated services to citizens by public and private sector services.
Internet Initiative:
- We are establishing and implementing an "Internet Initiative" to encourage access by citizens, with measures such as:
- Providing integrated electronic services to citizens to carry out their transactions with public services.
- Informing citizens about the possibilities offered by the Internet and the ways in which they can access it.
Special care for the education and information of students.
- Substantially reduce the cost of Internet access.
Full exemption from the cost of access for students of Higher Education.
- Encourage access via devices other than conventional computers, such as mobile phones, pocket computers, TV.
Provision of Electronic Services:
Immediate adoption and implementation of e-government.
eServices should be accessible to citizens, regardless of their location and their level of familiarity with ICT, as well as to people with disabilities.
E-Government systems must support and guide citizens without the need to go to public services, providing in electronic form all the necessary material to implement the so-called one-stop services.
More specifically:
- Provision of e-government services to citizens through the Central Internet Portal (egov.gr).
Citizens have access to the automated services, but at the same time they can search for information on individual issues (e.g. building permits).
- Upon activation of each service by the citizen, the relevant request is logged and forwarded for processing.
- The citizen can monitor its progress through the central web portal and communicate with the competent operators.
- The online services are provided throughout the day, 7 days a week.
- Citizens can go to only one public service to submit their requests (one-stop services).
The collection of the required documents is carried out through communication between the Public Services.
- Development of internet portals for e-learning, e-health, e-employment, e-tourism, e-agriculture in order to assist citizens in their daily activities, health issues, job search, tourism etc., but also to support specific population groups, such as farmers.
- Implementation of a transparent institutional framework for the tendering, contracting, implementation and monitoring of IT projects.
- Liberalise the IT market from distortions and operating conditions that do not comply with the principles of healthy competition.
- Immediate acceleration of strategically important projects that are long overdue, such as the Public Administration's 'Conjunction' network.
- Ensure the interoperability, synergy and complementarity of IT and telecommunications projects, so that citizens are served through a single public service that itself communicates and exchanges data with its partner services (one-stop services).
- Strengthen the legal and institutional framework for the protection of individual freedom rights and personal data, as well as the competences, infrastructure and staff of the Data Protection Authorities and the Ombudsman.
- Encourage innovation and strengthen entrepreneurship in the fields of Information and Communication Technologies.
- Action to protect and safeguard our cultural heritage in the digital age.
- Measures for the development of electronic content to enhance education and promote our cultural heritage and tourism.
- Immediate development of broadband communications.
Tele-working:
we legally protect and promote tele-working as an institution that contributes, among other things, to the professional rehabilitation of vulnerable social groups, such as people with disabilities and women with children, as well as
to the creation of new jobs.
Tele-education:
we promote the provision of complementary and lifelong learning opportunities through tele-education, with emphasis on the application of the latest technological developments in individual professional fields.
Quality of life:
- Improving health services through integrated, interoperable health information systems.
- Establishment and implementation of the single electronic patient record and ensuring confidentiality of personal medical data.
- Develop intelligent transport through telematics services for more efficient transport management and improved citizen service.
People with disabilities:
- We promote the application of new technologies in all cases where they contribute to the equal integration of people with disabilities in society (access to education, public services, etc.).
Sport activity is a decisive factor in the all-round development of the personality of young people.
That is why sport is a key component of our social policy.
Consequently, any intervention in the sports structure (Sports Association, Sports Union, Sports Federation), in professional sport, in the scientific support of sport as a whole, in school sport, but also in recreational sport with the aim of entertainment and good health, will be immediate, active and effective.
It is our basic position that in a modern welfare state it is imperative that expenditure on education, culture, entertainment and sports for citizens should be increased and cover a significant part of the annual regular State Budget.
The overabundance of sports clubs in our country, with the lack of sports facilities, especially in the big cities, and at the same time their non-existent revenues, make the cell of sports activity hostage and at the mercy of the petty appetites of the sports leadership.
The Sports Federations, which are legally responsible for the development of their sport in our country, need to become modern-modern sports organisations, operating according to the dictates of science and sports marketing.
The funding of their budgets by the state will be based on the criteria of their international distinctions and the development of the sport in the country.
Our aim is for state financial support to cover at least 50% of their costs and to help them attract financial resources, making good use of their sports product, with the participation of private initiative.
Their staffing with recruitment of high quality staff and associates and special studies in modern sports management and marketing is considered essential.
The basic objective of the N.D. is the coupling of the in-depth cultivation of sports and athletic performance with the achievements of modern technology and the progress of sports science.
The Departments of Physical Education and Sports Science of our country's Universities, the Department of Sports Organisation and Management, as well as the National Centre for Sports Research are called upon to play a decisive role in this objective.
Our aim is also to fund Sports University Institutions for the development of specialized programmes in the field of Sports Research and the advancement of Sports Science.
Particular emphasis will be placed on the new university departments that aim to provide scientific training for sports executives, introducing them to modern sports marketing, as well as in the fields of the sociology of sport, the history and ideals of Olympism.v
Our aim is for sporting activity in pre-school, basic and secondary education to become one of the key elements of our educational policy.
Specifically:
- In preschool sports, the child's participation and acquaintance with sports through the playful form of sport.
- These special programmes will be supervised and implemented by physical education teachers (with full-time positions) with specialised knowledge of the subject.
- Annual tests to determine the normal physical and muscular development of the child, discovering and correcting organic problems such as kyphosis, lordosis, scoliosis, etc.
- At least one educational excursion will be compulsory to Olympic or sports museums or major sports centres.
- In secondary education, the upgrading of school championships with moral and material incentives for the distinguished school.
- Complete restructuring of the T.A.D. (Sports Facilitation Classes) sports schools and creation of more model sports schools per county-region (geographical area).
We aim at immediate measures for:
- Expansion of sports and entertainment areas in open spaces, parks and groves of municipalities. -
Promotion through the special programmes of the General Secretariat for Sport for the holding of conferences and championships at local level and the strengthening of sports tourism (mountain climbing excursions, etc.);
- Alternative days, times and forms of sports programmes to facilitate those who want to participate.
- Emphasis on workplace sport with training programmes and the creation of workshops and championships (in cooperation with businesses).
- Upgrading the physical education sector and the internal championships of the armed forces and security forces.
Programming:
- Grants to associations for the creation of sections for people with disabilities and for the concession of their facilities.
- Provision of specialised K.F.A. and facilities to clubs of people with disabilities (after the 2004 Paralympics) for the training of their athletes and the holding of their competitions.
- Creation of new sports infrastructure for people with disabilities.
In professional sport, the state should not be its economic blood donor but should establish the rules, ensure and supervise their faithful observance, establish incentives and create the conditions for the flourishing of the "industrial production of sporting spectacle" always within the framework of the free market economy.
The framework in which professional sport and especially football in Greece was built has reached its limits.
The government's inability to impose rules of sound behaviour, to control the schemes that shaped results and to present an institutional framework that would ensure legitimacy, led to the current situation of excessive debts, unreliability and uncertainty about tomorrow.
The current picture in the field of professional sport is bleak:
- Over-indebted sports companies, the majority of which, with the full implementation of Law 2190/20 on "joint stock companies", should have been closed down long ago.
- The removal of spectators from the stadiums.
- Unacceptable working conditions for the majority of professional athletes.
- Negative balance of economic and sporting transactions with foreign countries.
- Unqualified and unreliable on a large scale - administrative factors, staffing of the management by experienced people, absence of specialised 'management'.
- Disgruntled, uncontrollable and several times directed followers (in the logic of the President's "personal army").
- Violence and incidents in the stands and surrounding areas.
- Unacceptable conditions in which matches were held.
- Questioning of the winner and the final result.
- Sporting bodies are dependent on the interests of clubs - anonymous companies.
- Limited sources of revenue.
- Daily conflicts with the state with a single demand, the pumping of funds from the state coffers.
- Concentration of teams and sporting events in large urban centres, especially Athens and Thessaloniki.
The overcoming of the current economic and, by extension, racing crisis cannot be done overnight.
A ten-year development programme is needed, which will be characterised by:
- The qualitative upgrading of amateur football.
- The steady reduction in the costs of professional football.
- The substantial modernisation of the sports entertainment production industry.
Specifically for refereeing, the proposed interventions are:-
Creation of a National School of Refereeing for all team sports.
- Establishment of an objective way of scoring and promotion of referees with a point system that will reflect meritocratic formal and substantive qualifications.
- An objective system for the selection of referees for each match.
- Reform and upgrading of the observer corps.
The main objective in the fight against doping is to protect the health of athletes, especially young people, and to ensure the authenticity of the sporting result.
We immediately propose:
- Alignment of the statutes and regulations of the Sports Federations with the anti-doping regulations of the IOC and the International Organisations - and, above all, their implementation.
- Specific and multiple controls on the production, possession and distribution of pharmaceutical preparations and food supplements containing prohibited substances.
- Reform of the relevant regulatory provisions in the direction of more severe penalties.
- An information campaign on the consequences of doping, in cooperation with OKANA and other relevant bodies.
- Establishment of medical rehabilitation units for those who have resorted to the use of prohibited substances in sport (anabolic substances).
- Establishment of a National Independent Authority for the monitoring, coordination and implementation of all actions and programmes at national level.
The ND has the will and the courage to put a definitive end to any form of sport hooliganism.
Our policy will move in two directions.
Prevention, with special educational measures that will highlight the values of sport, and repression.
We directly propose :
- Establishing the use of high digital technology tools to organise effective and repressive control.
- Redefining and upgrading the role of the Standing Committee for the Treatment of Violence (DEAB);
- Clarification of the legal regime governing the operation of the Associations of Organised Supporters and specific definition of their relations with Clubs and Associations.
- Increasing the objective (competition and civil) liability of the PAAs, KAEs, etc. in terms of disciplinary and criminal sanctions and civil compensation.
- Adoption of a series of measures to inform and raise awareness among young people, particularly schoolchildren.
- Rewarding the PAE - KAE, with material and moral incentives, whose supporters do not create incidents throughout the season and who take practical measures to combat the phenomenon.
The ND will go ahead: - A
long-term financial consolidation program for AAEs;
- The introduction of procedures for auditing the financial position of Sports Anonymity Companies (AAEs) and engaging the companies by submitting business plans for AAE transfers and mergers.
The organisation of control by the Ministry of Commerce and the Audit Council and the imposition of sanctions (disciplinary and financial) by the competent Minister of Sports.
- The prohibition of direct, horizontal and vertical, multi-ownership as well as indirect ownership through management, either directly or through a third natural or legal person. - a
ban on the ownership or management of AAEs by television companies that negotiate or conclude contracts with AAEs;
- the regulation of relations between amateur clubs and AAEs (e.g. use of branding, rental of sports facilities, etc.);
- the restructuring of professional and amateur football leagues in order to enhance the competitiveness and viability of teams in cooperation with the sports federation and the professional association.
The intention of the New Democracy is to create new, flexible institutions.
The new institution, staffed with active Judges of the first and second degree, is our maximum commitment to the full and immediate delivery of justice, eliminating any possible expediency.
The Greek athlete is at the centre of our attention:
- All active athletes are insured for accidents that may occur during a race or training;
- A compulsory health card is introduced for all athletes;
- Compulsory participation of doctors in every official or friendly meeting throughout the Greek territory.
The hard embrace of the E.O.E. with the sports committee of the PASOK, transformed the leading sports institution of our country, into an unwilling pro-governmental institution.
The New Democracy expects for the E.O.E. what is easily understood: a Greek Olympic Committee, commensurate with its history and the prestige of its work.
Independent and faithful to the principles and ideals of Olympism.
With the sole aim of the progress and development of Greek Sport.
It is not necessary for its composition to include Members of Parliament or Party Representatives.
On the contrary, it should be adorned with the presence of people of letters (Academics - University Professors) and Arts and sports personalities.
We also recommend: -
Financial independence of the E.O.E.
- Conversion of all Olympic Facilities into a POTYPA KENTPA YΨHΛΛOY AΘΛHTIΣMOY. -
Establishment and operation of an INSTITUTION OF ATHLETICS for all Olympic and non-Olympic sports with responsibilities to be determined by a joint decision of the Ministers of Education and Culture, on a proposal from the E.O.E.
- Establishment of an organisation for the cultivation and dissemination of the Olympic ideals.
It is everyone's wish and hope that we will organise successful Olympic Games, which will give our country the recognition and position it deserves.
However, during all the years of their preparation there have been significant problems, mainly due to a lack of proper planning and organisation.
One of the issues that have been of concern in recent months is the use of all the new sports facilities after the 2004 Olympics.
Unfortunately, this issue has been raised and promoted over the last year, whereas it should have been raised from the very beginning of the planning of these facilities, at least six years ago.
Since we built the sports facilities with the Greek people's money, almost a year before the Games, we are trying to find solutions for what to do with them afterwards.
The New Democracy, focusing on their use as facilities that will promote and highlight sports activity, proposes a model of administration through which sports activity, cultural events, the exhibition requirements of the basin, the broader needs of the residents of the region, will be harmoniously and proportionally identified with the business activity that will generate the revenues for their maintenance.
