The Union of Centrists never stops denouncing the ills of the political and economic life of the country
and warning of any negative developments that damage the country and its citizens.
However, the party's positions and pioneering proposals are the catalytic factor that can bring a new breath to society
and cause a radical reboot that will take the general functioning of the state along with it
and set the moral foundations for a system of justice, meritocracy, dignity and transparency.
After all, what is lacking nowadays is the hope for a new beginning, a hope that will be expressed only through the truth, without being influenced by the distribution of false promises,
without aiming to deceive the people and without any tendency to authoritarianism.
The Union of Centrists is the unique historical continuation of the once powerful party of the late George Papandreou's Union of Centrists.
Founded in 1992 by President Vassilis Leventis, it is one of the longest-lasting parties in the country's modern political life,
with continuous presence in all elections since then.
Its emblem is the people of all races of the planet, united on the same basis and having the same rights.
BACKGROUND AND HISTORICAL BACKGROUNDOur ideological principles stem from the traditional space of the Centre that places man as its basis
and creates a reality based on pluralism,
tolerance of diversity,
justice, equality, meritocracy
and absolute equality of all in relation to the law and institutions.
Our great weapon is the realistic portrayal of everyday life,
logic and objectivity, on the basis of which we judge, control, decide and legislate.
We are inspired by the difficult struggles of the nation's historic leaders, who stood up to the interests that traditionally plagued the country
and, without considering personal gain,
sacrificed everything for the good of Greece.
Who forgets Ioannis Kapodistrias who paid with his life for his fight against the landlords and the local oligarchy.
Who does not remember the selfless struggles of Nikolaos Plastira who died poor
or Alexandros Papanastasiou who fought for Regal Democracy and simple proportional representation.
George Papandreou deserves special mention, who fought for equal opportunities, took on the Palace,
represented the country abroad, but he too died betrayed because the people did not defend democracy on the night of 21 April 1967.
Another example is Eleftherios Venizelos, who expanded the country's borders in the midst of wars, taking the great powers of the time on his side
, and Georgios Mavros who, as Foreign Minister after the dictatorship, defended the country's honour with vigour on issues such as the Cyprus problem,
but he too was betrayed by the Karamanlis government, which lacked the skills to negotiate such burning issues properly.
Finally, it would be irregular not to mention Ioannis Zigdis, who essentially founded the PPC by bringing electricity to the most remote areas of the country and laid the foundations for the industrialisation of the country.
We believe that the Centre is the only political space that has been served by people with dignity,
who have vigorously defended the claims of our country internationally
and have never stooped to the level of treachery, thievery, deceit and electioneering.
They kept Hellenism alive at very critical junctures in history and they did so selflessly,
when everyone else was unable to take on the burden of managing the difficult reality.
THE CURRENT SITUATIONDuring the post-independence period, there have been parties and political forces that have wanted to abuse the historical Centre in order to encapsulate the vote of the law-abiding, law-abiding citizen.
It was PASOK that first used the legacy of George Papandreou, making its motto the opposition to the undemocratic practices of the Right, which was constantly sucking the country dry.
In the end, it turned out that nothing of what was in the declaration of the movement was put into practice,
instead it appropriated the practices of bourgeois parties,
created party armies by distributing money, offices and positions in the public sector
and ended up in another form of the Right
that contributed to the bankruptcy of the country and to the complete devaluation and collapse of the political life of the country, with scandals, kickbacks and theft.
The centrist area has been addressed dynamically, especially in the last decades, by the New Democracy, which has also abused and betrayed its values,
unable to expel its authoritarianism,
its authoritarian management of economic conditions for the benefit of state-owned entrepreneurs
and its timidity in implementing reforms and changes in Greek society.
Today, there are various smaller parties and political leaders who declare themselves Centrists, either out of shame for the area they come from or in an attempt to deceive the people again and get their vote,
taking advantage of the weakening of the two-party system.
None of them, however, has a historical footing in the values that the Centre has set, nor does he have the political background and the fist to defend the country in crisis situations
, nor the historical knowledge that will put him on the path of selfless service to the people, not counting his personal cost.
They are mostly opportunists trying to be heard in order to serve personal ambitions and influence situations,
but with the backing and favour of various small or big players in the system.
THE ROLE OF THE CENTRAL UNION IN DEVELOPMENTS The Centrist Union, with its main spokesman being the always dynamic and sincere Vassilis Leventis, is clearly oriented towards the Centre, without the above distortions and pathologies.
She hopes that the power of truth and logic will ignite the spark that will lead the world and especially the youth to adopt her proposals spontaneously,
not only at the level of political proposal and party identification but also at the level of personal moral line.
Its exclusion from the nationwide media was intended to delay this social wave of democratic reaction
and demand for institutional and social changes towards the just, the reasonable, the feasible.
It is in this context that the attempt to ridicule Vassilis Leventis, a man whose only aim is to become the bearer of ideas and the bearer of awakening and revolution,
a peaceful and democratic revolution that will bring the much-needed restart of the functioning of the state on sound foundations of hope, toil and honesty.
We do not promise things that cannot be delivered, we are not funded by vested interests and in any case we ignore the costs - political or social - that our advocacy entails.
We know that nothing in life and nothing in politics is wasted and we are confident that the honesty and purity of our struggle will be recognized en masse when the people become disillusioned by false parochialism, wishful thinking and political posturing.
The timidity and incompetence of the political system is caused precisely by the clientelistic logic of serving interests that we refuse and reject.
We want change to come democratically, without bigotry, we are opposed to racism of any kind and are open to discussion with all those who embrace our principles and recognise our efforts, from whatever background.
We add water to our wine and adopt new views and proposals, but we always remain firm on issues that we believe ensure justice and meritocracy
and which we consider non-negotiable for the improvement of economic and social conditions and Greece's image on the international stage.
We have no ambitions to govern and we are fighting for the full adoption of proportional representation as an electoral system,
since autocratic governments distort the continuity of the state and cause unequal treatment of different groups of our fellow citizens.
We do not believe in saviors because we are sure that the values and virtues of the Greek people are alone capable of bringing about change so that the country can meet its obligations
and with the youth as our weapon we hope to instil in the troubled and betrayed Greek people the values we stand for and the values we fight for.
Those who have underestimated the Centrist Union underestimate the Greek people themselves, who have proven many times that they can work miracles when they are united,
when they have something worth fighting for and when they unite under a common clear vision.
We are confident that the time of vindication for all of us is approaching.
No one can deny the right to hope and no political or economic situation is capable of altering the stable values of truth, equality and democracy.
If we all unite under a common cause, we will do wonders.
As long as this purpose is fully crystallized, provided that society embraces it spontaneously, as the only way of reconstruction and redemption.
The conditions are more ripe than ever and the president of the Union of Centrists, Mr.Vassilis Leventis, more experienced and empowered by the support of all those who dream of a new spirit of humanity and dignity,
asks the youth to show the way to all those who remain lost and deceived and who fail to do their own self-criticism.
Our weapon is the truth and the hope that springs from it and with these weapons we are and will continue to march until the final vindication.
Plan to get out of the Memorandum01/01/2014 @ 20:05We list the most important points of the policy of the UNION OF CENTROSURES that would have prevented us from joining the IMF and the "mechanism" of support if we had implemented them in time,
but even if their implementation would have started today, the Greek Economy could have returned relatively quickly to positive growth rates and show a real
and true budget surplus,
which would not result from the economic annihilation of the citizens of Greece:
The CENTRAL UNION believes that if the Europeans saw such a brave policy of housekeeping and compliance by our country since October 2009, they would show the required solidarity towards Greece
and we would avoid the multi-year adventure of the IMF and the support mechanism.
George Papandreou wasted precious time with meaningless trips and discussions and so the debt crisis became a borrowing crisis.
For this delay he must be held accountable to justice.
The CENTRAL UNION agrees that the Constitution of our country should include a deficit ceiling of 3% of GDP,
because buffoonery and bribery have poisoned the character of the modern Greeks.
The first thing is to save the economy, the second is to give dignity to every Greek, every Greek woman.
Prohibition of second and more pensions when the first pension is more than €1,000/month.
A ban on pensioners working when their monthly pension exceeds €1,000.
Cutting pensions for those with other incomes capable of providing a satisfactory standard of living.
Dismissal of all idle workers from the public service.
Immediate abolition of all state subsidies to the parties
and the cessation of pension payments to all those who have served as deputies or state officials (abolition of all privileges of deputies).
The maximum time a person can remain a member of parliament is 12 years.
The maximum service in the Prime Minister's office is two terms.
The immediate dismissal from the Parliament of officials appointed by agreement of the parties and related to current or former MPs. (Estimated at 1200 persons).
Recruitment at the Parliament of new officials only through the APS
A 20% reduction of all public and private sector wages and pensions exceeding €2,000 per month
(no cut is foreseen for amounts below €2,000 per month).
Abolition of double and multiple pensions and a ban on the same person receiving more than one pension.
We are calling for all Greek citizens to retire at 65, with the
exception of the sick.
Increase in the VAT and the scale tax for rental income in family shares with more than three dwellings.
Μείωση κατά 50% των αποδοχών όλων των εκλεγμένων και διορισμένων αξιωματούχων, όπως των : Προέδρου Δημοκρατίας, πρωθυπουργού, υπουργών, υφυπουργών, βουλευτών, μητροπολιτών, δημάρχων, περιφερειαρχών, Γεν. Secretaries of Ministries and all senior state officials.
Reduction of the number of advisers to ministers and the return of seconded and temporary employees in ministries, parties and MPs to the services to which they belong. (estimated at 12,000 people).
Encourage entrepreneurship by all means and introduce generous incentives to attract investment.
Mandatory for banks to regulate all loans, commercial and personal, that have been classified as "red loans" since 2009.
Separation of debts to OAEE and other professional funds, in the Pension and Health sectors for those professionals who have difficulty or inability to pay, from 2009 onwards.
Cancellation of debts to the OAEE and other funds of health professionals.
In the vast majority of cases, OAEE and other professional funds have imposed charges for services that have not been provided,
excluding their uninsured insured from hospital care and other health benefits.
In addition, for these debts, the OAEE administration threatens to seize the assets of uninsured freelancers and traders.
The absurdity continues with OAEE's demand for payment of these contributions to people who are no longer able to meet their contractual obligations.
Capitalisation of the debts of the pension sector for OAEE members who owe the organisation.
Establishment of a social pension of €800 per month for all uninsured and resource-poor Greek citizens. (Start of the measure when conditions allow).
Taxes on houses will only be levied on those who have more than 2 houses on their E9.
The first 2 dwellings of each family are exempt.
Introduction of a 30% capital gains tax on the purchase of land and apartments
with an exemption for first and second homes.
Participation of private sector workers in the profits of enterprises, with a special framework law.
Equalisation of private and public sector rights at all levels within 5 years through equalisation of pay and rights.
Correction of the mistake made by reducing the minimum wage thresholds so that the minimum wage is not less than 800 € per month (starting when conditions allow).
The polythesis of 250 thousand of our fellow citizens,
the double and triple pensions of 200 thousand of our fellow citizens, the
fact that 400 thousand of our fellow citizens are working although their monthly pension exceeds 1000 € (which is strictly forbidden in all European countries),
the financing of parties by the state with huge annual sums, the appointment of 1700 idle relatives of members of parliament without a call for applications,
the idle wages of 12 thousand seconded and temporary civil servants who are "slating" in parties, ministries, parliamentary offices,
the recruitment as stage, or contract workers in municipalities, public utilities, the wider public, universities, universities of applied sciences,
the general achalnosis and debauchery, all these brought bankruptcy and as long as we continue as a country on the same course, the end will be very unpleasant.
Investment environment16/04/2015 @ 17:26Credit for tourismAfter the 2004 Olympic Games, the majority of the facilities built for the Olympic Games remained unused.
Our country has dozens of archaeological sites that have not been exploited at all.
Our country has a terrain and landscape variations capable of attracting large numbers of travellers.
Our country has a large number of islands, inhabited and uninhabited, largely unused (lack of organised berths for small boats - marinas).
It is obvious that while as a country we have natural beauties, ancient heritage and modern facilities that we are not able to exploit on our own, we should
turn to the private sector for their exploitation.
Sports tourism, conference tourism, agrotourism and alternative tourism in general, until today, in the year 2015, have been left in the hands of a few courageous individuals who, under adverse economic conditions,
prove that there is the possibility for our country to participate in these internationally remarkable activities.
In the case of sports facilities and archaeological sites, and always in partnership with private individuals (creation of joint stock companies, with the state holding 49% of the shares), to entrust the management to private individuals for 99 years (in the form of a lease).
and, as a second priority, investment from European companies and individuals, without excluding any proposal, regardless of its origin.
We propose :In the context of Transparency and Open Government, the creation of a multilingual website*,
where all unused sports facilities, public properties and archaeological sites will be listed.
Their coding and creation of an investment interest form (submission of a complete business plan) for each facility - site - location - area.
Findings for productive investmentsDomestic and non-domestic investors, while openly expressing the desire to invest in Greece, which due to its geographical location and climate,
provides ideal conditions for the development of business - productive investments, they encounter obstacles in their activities :
Instability of the tax system.
High taxation.
Poorly implemented unionism.
High energy costs.
Moderate transport infrastructure (rail network, ports).
High bureaucracy and inadequate computerisation for speedy processing of cases.
In order for the investment environment to function properly, the proposal of the Union of Centrists to reform our tax system and our business environment must be implemented.
Creation of the website by the computer science students of the universities and TEI of our country.
Creation and maintenance of the website using exclusively Open Source Software).
* - In the languages of the European Union
Tourism development16/04/2015 @ 17:25 In proportion to the permanent population of Greece (11.000.000), our country has more potential than the most touristic country in the world, France (population 66.000.000).
France is significantly ahead of Greece in alternative forms of tourism.
The importance of alternative tourism in the development of a tourist country should be stressed.
The incentive to promote such a strong product is the additional income to the state's coffers resulting from the influx of visitors and the provision of services and local products.
In Greece, the prevailing perception is that tourism is only the activity that has to do with entertainment tourism.
However, additional sources of income for citizens (securing jobs)
and the state are the alternative forms of tourism that are able to ensure the arrival of tourists on a 12-month basis for our country.
Thanks to the natural beauty of our country, we attract a large number of entertainment tourists (mass tourism) with benefits :
Contribution to GDP.
Infrastructure development and regional development.
Contribution to the balance of payments.
Contributing to the employment and economic development of local communities.
There are, of course, disadvantages :One-dimensional tourism development.
Encapsulation of the tourist product.
Devaluation of the brand name "Greece".
Exclusion from popular tourist activities.
Greece, for many decades, despite the problems of our educational system, has produced skilled personnel, who are either unemployed
or seeking work outside Greece in sectors that our country could absorb them.
At this point we should stress that the most important factor in attracting domestic and non-domestic investment in mass and alternative tourism is the implementation of the proposal of the Union of Centrists for the reform of our tax system and our business environment.
For mass tourism, the Union of Centrists proposes the tax legislation and the establishment of Tourism Companies (TO.ET), while
for alternative forms of tourism, the Union of Centrists proposes either the merger of activities of smaller tourism business units (TO.ET),
or the establishment of new ones within the existing framework of business activity.
In any case, tourism remains the heavy industry of our country, with a large contribution to Greece's GDP (20.4%, 2014 data)
and in terms of direct and indirect jobs.
Prerequisites for the maintenance of mass tourism and the development of alternative tourism are the improvement of existing infrastructure such as roads, marinas, railways, air transport and public transport.
Spa tourism (SPA) - associated with visits to tourist sites for the treatment of various diseases (e.g. stress treatment, psychotherapy, physiotherapy, relaxation, nutrition, beauty, etc.), as well as
for relaxation and rejuvenation of the body and soul.
Recreational sports tourism - associated with all forms of active and passive participation in sporting events.
Participation may be accidental or organised, it may be for business purposes or for other reasons.
It is divided into two categories: Attendance of European and world cups and championships, Olympic Games and major international tournaments;
- Active participation in sporting events or competitions, such as golf, tennis, football, basketball, rowing, etc.
Rural tourism - as its name suggests, it is developed mainly in rural areas of the country
and is related to the social, environmental and cultural values of the area.
Religious tourism - associated with visiting Byzantine monuments, monuments of ecclesiastical architecture, churches and monasteries.
Marine tourism - includes a range of sea-based activities (boat chartering, popular cruise trips, etc.).
Cultural tourism - an ideal form of tourism for those who wish to discover
and learn about the culture and culture of different regions, to take an active part in seminars and workshops, as well as
knowledge of traditional art - Byzantine painting, photography, ceramics, sculptures, murals, musical instruments, etc.
Educational tourism - mainly aimed at young people.
The main purpose is learning (professional training of the traveller, acquisition of specific knowledge, acquisition of new experiences).
Conference tourism - tourist destination, directly linked to the organization and participation in conferences, seminars and exhibitions.
In recent years, conference tourism has been growing rapidly and constitutes an important part of the international tourism market.
Ecotourism - a form of tourism that has been developed using the resources of the environment: mountains, lakes, lagoons, valleys, caves, rich flora and fauna. In summary, these are areas of high geological interest.
Medical tourism - a direction of tourism, the aim of which is to organise economically competitive medical care for the patient abroad.
Mining/geological tourism - a form of mining or geological tour in areas with both present and past mining activity.
An important development agent, according to the model of Agricultural Companies proposed by the Union of Centrists,
is the establishment - merger - cooperation in corporate form of small and local businesses of tourism services, with the aim of jointly promoting the services provided in their region.
Tourism Companies (TO.ET)The purpose of a TO.ET is a cooperative consolidation and standardization of tourist - hotel - accommodation and other hospitality services in Greece, based on geographical definition.
Creation and registration of a tourist brand name of the region based on geographical identification.
Possibility of voluntary participation of all tourism business units in the identified area.
Ability to have as initial capital and property, the real estate of the participating units.
Ability to cooperate with other TOEs (regardless of geographical location) for the combined provision of services.
A TO.ET may establish and operate a subsidiary and with the character of providing advertising and information services and in accordance with the laws governing their operation (LLC, E.U., E.U., Ltd., EPE, SA, IKE) in other regions for the purpose of updating available hospitality and tourism services in the identified geographical area.
Ability to cooperate with the Agricultural Companies of their region to promote the local products of the identified geographical area they both represent.
Tax treatment of AG.ET on an equal footing with any other business activity,
taxed in accordance with the proposal of the Union of Centrists for a radical reform of the Greek tax framework
and improvement of the business environment.
The proposal of the Centrist Union for the combined development of primary production and tourism, aims to give the visitor of our country the opportunity to taste high quality Greek hospitality and high quality food and products of the Greek land alone.
In this way, we achieve maximum advertising penetration in other markets (word of mouth),
with much lower product promotion costs for the primary sector,
as the visitor-consumer has the opportunity, by visiting our country, to taste local products and in a second phase to seek them in their home country.
Insurance Funds for Professionals - Businessmen16/04/2015 @ 17:20 Innovation, extroversion, the restart of production, are undoubtedly noble goals that a country sets in its efforts for growth.
But in order to achieve these goals and to implement them, you need to have infrastructure and these bases, as a state, not to lose them under your feet on a daily basis.
on the other hand, they have not caused financial distress to the insurance funds:
Inability to pay pensions due to lack of revenue from professionals who are unable to meet their obligations due to the contraction of GDP (decrease in consumption and decrease in demand for services).
But in order to achieve these goals and to implement them, you need to have infrastructure and these bases, as a state, not to lose them under your feet on a daily basis.
The Troika (Institutions) itself, since July 2014, estimated that out of the 67.5 billion € of the expected revenues of the Greek State from taxes and fines of individuals and businesses, the collection potential is only 17.5 billion €.
The remaining €50 billion is impossible to collect, either because there is a total inability to pay, or because of huge fines even for minor tax infringements.
The Union of Centrists would not oppose the idea of the consolidation of the insurance funds into a single entity, provided that
first of all the issue of debts is settled in a simple way,
which aims to normalize the revenue flow of the funds and to bring them back to a viable situation within a 5-year horizon
, while at the same time we seek not to harm those who managed, in the midst of the crisis, to maintain the smooth return of contributions to their insurance funds.
We recommend: Cease prosecutions and threats of seizure for debts to the Insurance Funds of Professionals - Tradesmen.
Tax audit of existing income and cross-checking of data with banks for the existence of hidden income
and separation into professionals with proven difficulty or total inability to pay, from 2009 onwards, and professionals who deliberately did not make repayment when they were able to do so.
Mandatory for banks to regulate all business loans that have been classified as "red loans" since 2009.
Separation of debts to the Insurance Funds for Professionals - Businesses in the Pension and Health sectors.
To write off the interest and fines for the debts to the Insurance Funds of Professionals - Tradesmen.
Deletion of charges for health care services that have not been provided but have been billed.
In the vast majority of cases, the OAEE and other professional funds have imposed charges for services not provided (health sector), excluding their uninsured insured from hospital care and other health benefits;
but have been charged, in claims for confiscation of assets of uninsured professionals and traders.
The theatre of the absurd continues, with OAEE demanding payment of these contributions to people who are no longer able to meet their contractual obligations, let alone their obligations to their insurance funds.
Capitalisation of contributions to the Pension Sector and deduction of the amount, in stages, from the amount of the insured person's pension.
The insured person should be given the opportunity to choose his/her own insurance category or...
... have the option of paying contributions based on a percentage of their actual income rather than a fixed amount.
To make it easier for the current body of insured persons to repay their debts to the fund in amounts commensurate with their actual incomes.
By implementing these measures, the OAEE and the other Insurance Funds for Professionals - Tradesmen, can become again and within 4 to 6 months, insurance institutions with the beginning of liquidity,
viable and above all insurance institutions that will not act as opponents of their insured but as allies and will not be a deterrent to new business activity,
proving in practice that they do not have as a reason for existence the expropriation of property of our fellow citizens.
With these measures, insured persons who have managed to be punctual in their obligations so far are not affected, as no amount will be deducted from their pension,
while in the meantime they have had and continue to have uninterrupted provision of services from the Health Sector of their Fund.
* All insurance funds that have not been subordinated to IKA are considered as Insurance Funds for Professionals - Traders
and apply to those engaged in a business or profession and not to employees. Indicatively we mention funds such as: OAEE, TSMEDE, TSAY etc.
Primary production : Agricultural economy16/04/2015 @ 17:16Agricultural Economy Agriculture in Greece has shrunk in recent decades from 40% to a paltry 2.5%.
This is because the agricultural population cannot be taken to include the self-insured out of necessity, who declare themselves farmers in order to receive an agricultural pension to ensure a little better living conditions, or even the hetero-professionals.
While there are of course those who have farming as a second occupation, for example owners of fields with olive trees or vineyards, there are very few real farmers.
Unprotected now and always relying on European and state subsidies, they are exposed to many risks.
There are difficulties arising from the European Union's prohibitions on state subsidies.
These prohibitions have been deliberately made.
The number of farmers in other EU countries exceeded 40%, 50% or even 60%.
This is no longer the case.
The percentage of farmers in most European countries ranges from 2.5% to 5%, which was done deliberately.
This has happened because the EU is now dominated by the service development model (e.g. advertising agencies, banks, engineering companies, etc.),
while it has exported its industry to developing countries.
In this way it is trying to maintain a balance between growth and spending.
In this way it also supports developing countries, while keeping production costs at a lower price, since wages in these countries are at lower levels.
Instead of the classical concept of charity by offering money that could be mismanaged by corrupt leaders and crooks with consequences for the quality of life of the inhabitants,
the EU actively supports developing countries by setting up its industry there.
Until recently, these countries included the countries of the former Eastern bloc,
while the EU, now in a position of strength, re-imported the products with their added value but at cheaper prices.
These things have never been said in Greece, namely what the European Union is, what its purpose is and how it has changed the productive map of all the countries of the European continent.
We don't know how widespread this data has been in other countries.
In Greece, however, there has been little or no information on these issues of growth and productivity.
In the Centrist Union, we believe that we entered the Euro without our economy having the necessary infrastructure to cope with the challenges.
Greece's entry into the Eurozone was mainly a geopolitical transaction, so that Greece would be a buffer to the ever-increasing size of the Turkish economy.
Greece not only failed to take advantage of the prospects presented by its entry into the Eurozone to become a rationalised service economy,
but it retained the pathologies that characterised it.
In Greece we have the conditions for substantial growth through the three sectors that are our strength:
Primary production (agriculture, livestock, fisheries, minerals), shipping and tourism;
we have the potential to achieve the goals of starting substantial growth within 5 years.
What the CC intends to do for farmers.In the spirit of the EU, we believe that the few remaining farmers should be protected,
but also that we should encourage young and old farmers to engage in agricultural production on a purely business basis.
This can be done by:Providing land at a cheaper rent to increase the territorial scope of farmers' activities.
Increasing the borrowing capacity of farmers to buy fertilizers, equipment, machinery and other items related to their activity in a pure business model of an agricultural company.
Creation of product protection prices and payment from processing to the producer with a state guarantee.
Helping farmers to innovate in packaging to improve the image of their products.
Implementation of quality assurance systems.
Creation of simple and easily controllable national standards
The Union of Centrists also proposes the possibility of establishing Agricultural Companies (AG.ET).
Agricultural Companies are a peculiar form of local cooperative - commercial company with the business object of production, standardization and distribution of agricultural products of a region based on geographical identification*.
Agricultural Companies :The purpose of an AG.ET is the production, standardization and development of a distribution network within Greece and abroad of the products of the region.
Creation and registration of brand name and trademarks of the region's products.
Possibility for all producers in the identified area to participate voluntarily.
Ability to have as initial capital and property the land of the producers.
The possibility of integrating producers from a neighbouring region into its production cycle.
Ability to cooperate with other SGAs (irrespective of their geographical location) for the distribution of non-competitive products in the local market and beyond.
A SE may establish and operate a subsidiary of a purely commercial nature and in accordance with the laws governing their operation (LLC, SE, EPE, EPE, SA, IKE) in other regions for the purposes of:
- Setting up shops exclusively for the retail sale of its products
- Setting up a retail network using the shop-in-shop method.
Tax treatment of AG.ET as equal to any other business activity, taxed according to the proposal of the Union of Centrists for a radical reform of the Greek tax framework
and improving the business environment.
The proposal of the Centrist Union for the development of primary food production aims to maximize the use of available production land, to
make Greece as self-sufficient as possible in food production and to standardize and export as much as possible.
To illustrate, we take the example of the beekeeping sector: Greece has ideal conditions for beekeeping.
However, its development in our country is not commensurate with the climatic conditions of our country.
to bring the sector up to the level of industrial production, as other countries (USA, Canada, Russia) have done.
As a result, domestic production does not even cover the needs of domestic consumption and the needs of the Greek market are supplemented by imports.
* Geographical definition is defined as the boundaries of the Regional Units of Greece.
Taxes - VAT16/04/2015 @ 17:08 It is estimated that the annual loss of state revenue from non-payment of VAT amounts to 10 to 12 billion euros.
It is easy to blame businesses and professionals for non-payment of VAT,
but the VAT deficit is not solely due to fraud since non-payment of VAT is also due to bankruptcies, insolvency, statistical errors, late payments and tax evasion, among other things.(23-10-2014, http://news.in.gr/economy/article/?aid=1231358079)
However, to a large extent, due to the excessive taxation of citizens and businesses, VAT revenue is for many of our fellow citizens the only income available to cover their survival needs.
Tax simplification aims at fairer taxation while at the same time ensuring taxability based on the real economic capacity of the citizen.
Tax evasion :Obligation of all professionals of any category (e.g. doctors, lawyers) to install and use tax equipment (cash register / computer and on-line tax mechanism).
Electronic interconnection of the tax mechanism with the tax office.
Inclusion of all receipts for services and sales of goods in the tax returns of individuals and legal entities without any exception (e.g. receipts from doctors), as expenses deductible from total income.
Taxation of the net income with a flat rate of 15%.
Within 5 years, the gradual abolition of advance tax payments by businesses and individuals
, as well as the gradual simultaneous consolidation of debts between the state and legal entities - individuals (to gradually, if not eliminate, at least reduce the phenomenon of the state owing individuals and businesses money from tax refunds).
Table of phased abolition of advance tax :- 1st year : 55%; 2nd year : 40%; 3rd year : 30%; 4th year : 20%; 5th year : 10%Within 5 years, a gradual reduction of VAT rates from 23% to 15% based on the following table :- 1st year : 23%; 2nd year : 21%; 3rd year : 19%; 4th year : 17%; 5th year : 15%Simultaneous abolition of all other VATs and their incorporation into the single and uniform rate (following example of 6.5% rate) :- 1st year : 8%; 2nd year : 10%; 3rd year : 12%.- 4th year : 13.5%; 5th year : 15%
At the end of 5 years and the normalization of VAT rates, complete abolition of stamp duties and imposition of the single VAT rate on all transactions.
At the end of the 5 years and the normalization of VAT and tax rates for legal and natural persons, cessation of taxation of pensioners and benefits.
Establishment of a Taxable Income Limit (DI) equal to 20 times the basic salary (N) : N x 20 = DI.
Immediate abolition of contracts - agreements between the state and private individuals to reduce tax rates.
Advantages :Simplification of tax procedures.
The existence of exemptions in the tax system / VAT rates / tax rates for individuals and businesses leads to delinquency,
since in many cases it creates a feeling of injustice and separation between taxpayers into favoured and disadvantaged.
Elimination of the complex provisions on multiple VAT rates, which, due to the complexity and multiple VAT exemptions and categories, create legal and collection loopholes, leading taxpayers into delinquency.
Essentially, it promotes the disappearance of tax loopholes to avoid paying taxes.
Reduction of TAXIS maintenance costs (already a smaller number of employees can manage a larger amount of data).
Citizens' participation in state revenues according to their tax capacity.
Participation of all citizens, without exception, in the revenues of the state, both indirectly and directly.
Protecting lower incomes from additional taxation as they will participate indirectly through the collection of receipts proving their taxability.
Digital Greece29/03/2015 @ 01:40The Union of Centrists operates in accordance with the principles of our Republic, the international conventions on Human Rights (UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the European Convention on Human Rights) and the provisions of its Statute.
Citizen participation in the governance of Greece is an essential element for the proper governance of the country.
The Union of Centrists, cooperates with parties and movements that embrace and serve these basic principles and fully accepts the principles governing the Free Software Foundation (https://www.fsf.org) and the Free Software Foundation Europe (https://fsfe.org) and seeks to:
minimize the use of paper in transactions between the public and private sector and within the public sector.
Transparency at all levels of public administration.
Publication at every step of all actions to public authorities via the internet.
Free access of the individual to knowledge and culture.
Respect for personal freedom, freedom of expression, privacy and confidentiality of communications.
Ensuring full freedom of speech.
Open softwareThrough the adoption and use of open software standards, Greece is able to make full use of the potential of all its IT educational institutions.
Through competitions that can run all year round and actions that can be undertaken and run by our country's educational institutions,
the familiarisation of all generations of our population with digital facilities can be achieved.
The extensive use of Open Standards in Greece provides multiple benefits for our country:
independence from proprietary information systems and freedom to develop applications that cover 100% of the needs of the Greek state.
Reducing the cost of purchasing and maintaining proprietary code systems with multiple benefits for the public sector (reduction of operating costs).
Creating new jobs in the IT sector.
Creating and exporting high technology.
Attracting investment from investors with an interest in Open and Free Software and creating technology parks (example: Silicon Valley, California, USA)
We understand that Greece is currently heavily dependent on Closed Source Information Systems
and bound by high annual cost contracts with specific software companies.
Through the call for cooperation to all the Greek Free & Open Software,
we are able to present a comprehensive migration plan for the Greek Public Sector and over a 5-year period, to Open Software and Open Standards platforms. Free Software Foundation Europe https://fsfe.org https://fsfe.org/activities/policy/eu/policy-goals/public-bodies.el.html
What is Free Software? Free Software (or "open source software") - computer programs that anyone can use, study, share, and improve - is vital to achieving these goals.
Free Software makes the Internet work and provides the basis for the most successful businesses in the information technology industry.
Only with Free Software can users fully understand what a computer program actually does, what data it sends where, and how it produces its results.
Public services Public services are a critical infrastructure of democratic states.
Parliaments, state institutions and administrative bodies must be under the full control of the state, which, in turn, is governed by its citizens through democratic procedures.
To achieve these objectives, public administrations need to have full control over the software and computer systems they use, as well as
the data they collect, store and process.
To meet their obligations to the citizens they serve, public administrations must use only Free Software
and store their data in file formats that comply with Open Standards.
Where public administrations use Software as a Service (SaaS) or cloud solutions, they should also avoid being locked into a single supplier
and ensure that they can easily switch between different suppliers of such services.
They must ensure that their data can be transferred between different vendors,
that it is stored in file types that are compatible with Open Standards, and that the solution does not require non-free application software.
Public services are financed through taxes.
They must ensure that they spend this money wisely.
If organisations are locked into any one vendor's offer, they will end up paying monopoly prices for software and related services.
Instead, public administrations should procure their software and computer-related services only through competitive calls for tender, open to all those who bid.
Public authorities should also budget for future exit costs within the price of each bid, as well as
the cost of any licences they will need to purchase in addition to the solution offered.
They should only buy devices on which they can freely modify software and install operating systems and other programs of their choice.
When public services develop software, or pay for software development, the resulting programs must be released to the public under a Free Software licence.
Citizens and businesses have paid for this software with their taxes, so they should have access to it.
This includes smart mobile applications ("apps") available from public services.
As more and more data about our lives is transferred into cyberspace, we need to ensure that this data is well protected.
Where public authorities store personal data outside their own computer systems,
these data should be subject to the same or even stricter data protection rules
as those in force in the territory where the data were created.
We want the EU and its Member States to:Require the Commission to propose legislation requiring that all publicly funded software,
including applications for mobile devices,
will be made publicly available under Free Software licenses
On procurement tenders, ask the Commission to propose legislation to require public authorities to include the cost of exit in the total cost of any software or hosting solution they acquire,
ask the Commission to propose legislation requiring public authorities to provide information to any citizen, on request, on the jurisdiction in which their personal data are stored.
Consumer rights and device ownershipWe increasingly rely on computers for most of our daily lives, whether it's smart phones, cars, or thermostats.
Citizens must have full control over how these devices operate.
In particular, citizens must have the freedom to modify and exchange the software running on these devices.
They must also be able to control what data these devices collect, and with whom that data is shared.
The legislator should ensure that consumers are able to modify and exchange software on all the computing devices they own.
Consumer rights need to be strengthened, giving citizens the ability to easily take legal action against manufacturers and resellers who prevent them from modifying the software of their devices.
With products such as e-books, movies and computer games, suppliers can easily impose arbitrary restrictions on consumers.
They, for example, prevent consumers from selling or lending the products they have bought.
This is often achieved by suppliers, claiming that they are simply selling a licence to use the product, not the product itself.
These restrictions are grossly unfair to consumers, and the legislature must stop them.
We want the EU and its Member States to:Ask the Commission to propose legislation to strengthen consumer rights by
requiring that consumers be able to modify and exchange the software on any computing device they buy,
or otherwise permanently own.
Ask the Commission to propose legislation to ensure that consumers can use digital goods they have bought,
with the full extent of the exceptions and limitations of copyright law.
Privacy, surveillance and cryptography
Without privacy and anonymity there can be no democratic debate.
In a free country, citizens should be able to talk to each other without fear of being spied on.
For this reason, citizens rely on both the rules of law and technology.
Policy makers should protect their citizens from surveillance,
facilitate the development of tools that protect citizens' privacy,
and promote the use of such tools.
Despite the pervasive surveillance on the internet, policy makers should promote the use of encryption in all areas of communication.
Policy makers should prioritise the development of Free Software encryption tools for general use
and ensure that public money is available for this purpose.
We want the EU and its Member States to: Ensure that Free Software-based encryption technologies are used on a systematic basis in the European Parliament, as well as in the Commission and the European Council.
Ask the Commission to propose legislation requiring all public services to offer citizens the opportunity to communicate with them through channels secured by encryption technologies.
Adopt an investigative report on potential violations of the law committed by local and foreign intelligence agencies through pervasive surveillance of communications.
Distributed systemsThe internet has brought innovation and democratic participation precisely because it has no central point of control.
The trend towards centralised services jeopardises this key advantage.
To protect the freedom of citizens in the information society, we need to build distributed systems for all important functions, based on the internet.
Policy makers should promote the development and use of distributed systems to replace services that are currently highly centralised, such as social networking.
They should ensure that appropriate public funding is made available for this work.
Policy makers should promote the development of Open Standards through which these systems can interact.
and avoiding centralised services where possible.
We want the EU and its member states to:Ask European funding agencies, and in particular the European Commission, to direct funding to the development of distributed communication platforms
based on Free Software and Open Standards.
Ask the Parliament's administration to support MEPs in systematically using distributed platforms,
especially on social media.
Open StandardsOpen Standards allow all kinds of data to be shared freely and with absolute fidelity.
They protect against lock-in and other artificial barriers to interoperability and promote choice between suppliers and technology solutions.
FSFE's work on Open Standards aims to ensure that the transition to Free Software or between Free Software solutions is facilitated.
IntroductionOpen Standards are closely related to network phenomena and this relationship has grown dramatically.
The fee for gambling systems to proprietary vendors increases along with the cost of the software for users.
Governments, public interest NGOs, including groups interested in freedom of competition or consumer rights are generally strong supporters of Open Standards.
Typical critics are proprietary software vendors and those representing vested interests.
One of the points that critics try to emphasise is the inherent conflict between innovation and standardisation.
Standardisation deliberately limits changes in the technology base, and therefore in innovation.
These restrictions were introduced to allow continued innovation by anyone with access to the standard,
not just the party controlling the technology base.
Thus the standard limits the possibility of innovation by one partner to allow innovation by many.
Open Standards allow innovation by all partners without enabling the original developer of the platform to restrict the innovation and/or competition that this innovation represents.
FSFE's goals include freedom from lock-in, freedom to innovate and competition for all.
This is why FSFE is a strong advocate for Open Standards.
Real estate10/03/2015 @ 17:12The utilization of the real estate of citizens is an issue interconnected with the existence of a stable tax and business environment,
through which the incentives for its utilization will be provided for the benefit of the citizen and the country as a whole.
In the midst of the economic crisis of our country, there is the phenomenon of the state demanding from our fellow citizens, being unemployed or with reduced incomes, the collection of taxes,
i.e. cash, from land and properties that do not yield income to their owners.
Legally, a citizen who is not able to earn income from his or her real estate cannot at the same time pay the taxes that are assessed.
Even worse, the collapse of the real estate market (depreciation of real property values) is pushing our fellow citizens to try to sell their property, with the simultaneous lack of buyers.
One of the measures to facilitate our fellow citizens*, is the establishment of Land Banks by the municipalities, which are the most responsible for their proper functioning.
The Land Bank, an organisation that already exists and operates in municipalities in economically advanced countries, aims, among other things, to help citizens who are in financial difficulty to pay property taxes.
How it works :A natural/legal person, who is unable to pay property tax, declares and proves in writing to the Land Bank his/her financial weakness.
After registration, the natural / legal person undertakes, within 5 years, the obligation to use its property in any way:
- Own business exploitation of the property; - Rent; - Renting; - For-rent; - Sale.
In each of the above cases, the taxation of the real estate continues to exist for each year of non-taxation and operates cumulatively.
In case of sale of the property, all taxes are deducted from the transaction price.
In the case of commercial exploitation of the property, the repayment of taxes is facilitated through partial payment, in a percentage and proportion in accordance with the profitability of the business activity
or the total income of the private owner and up to the amount of repayment of past debt.
Standing positions of the Union of Centrists on real estate :Establishment of a tax exemption for the first home for all our fellow citizens.
When economic conditions allow, the introduction of a tax-free second home.
Transfer of the property tax to the municipalities and the responsibility for its collection, which are the
most competent and capable of knowing the property values of the areas under their jurisdiction.
At the same time, the municipalities will have a stable and own revenue, capable of sustaining them and managing themselves,
with the state performing the role of supervisor of the municipalities rather than administrator.
Property taxation based on real market values.
Establish a tax rate capable of generating revenue for municipalities
and not causing tax problems,
nor criminalizing and condemning our fellow citizens.
In order for real estate development to work properly, the proposal of the Union of Centrists to reform our tax system and our business environment must be implemented first.
Church-State relations.18/04/2014 @ 01:19The Union of Centrists is clearly in favour of religious tolerance, without asterisks and exceptions,
but supports the official religion and the Church of Greece.
We do not consider that the indication on the police identity card proves one's religious status since everyone expresses what he believes first and foremost in his soul and through his behaviour.
This is why we consider the indication of religion in any public document to be optional
and it is up to the personal will of each individual whether or not to express it in this way.
Similarly, our positions are clear on the persecution of religious minorities, which we do not tolerate, as advocates of free will and religious tolerance.
As a political body, we censure the misdeeds of people in the church.
There have been occasional instances of illicit enrichment,
mismanagement of parish and diocesan finances,
pro-right-wing political propaganda by prelates
, and defiantly luxurious or profligate lifestyles by people who either manage or profit from church activities.
All of the above is a clear insult to the democratic feelings of the people and is not compatible with the simple and above all spiritual attitude to life that Christianity teaches.
We support efforts to reach out to youth since it has been proven that nowadays, wooden language, unanswered questions about premarital relations and ideas about the origin of life are phenomena that make young people look at the clergy with suspicion.
However, the mistakes of hierarchs and clergy can in no way bend or characterize the Orthodox faith as a whole
, and we certainly do not agree with those who seek excuses to denigrate everything, since there are people of the Church,
with or without high office, who have never given rights,
but on the contrary are examples of solidarity and charity.
Besides, let us not forget that the Church is not only the hierarchs, but also a large part of our society, so blind persecution against it means a conflict with the sincere feelings of our fellow human beings and is an affront to both democracy and tolerance.
The view that the progressive parties distanced themselves from the Church is false and unfounded,
since the leading politicians who supported the Church, Ioannis Kapodistrias, Eleftherios Venizelos and Georgios Papandreou, were the ones who created the rule of law and dreamed of a healthy socialism.
As the Union of Centrists, we do not forget the enormous contribution of the clergy in the cause of the liberation of the nation from the Turkish conqueror,
while as far as the church property is concerned, we are in favour of its use to cover the goals and needs of the Church, which we present briefly below:
The financing of missionary work throughout the world, since the Orthodox Church of Greece is the mother church of Orthodoxy throughout the world and performs important educational and charitable work.
The fulfilment of charity work within the borders, especially nowadays when thousands of our fellow citizens live below the poverty line and have lost everything.
It is the Church that should be by their side.
The subsidy of the lower clergy so that the ordinary clergy can acquire dignity and not extend a hand of begging to the faithful.
The utilization of the Church's property must be a primary concern of the hierarchy with management committees per diocese in which a local prosecutor will participate to guarantee the solvency of the process so that there will be no bad language.
The Church of Greece and its activities as a leadership will also be subject to the transparency process.
We believe that the Church cannot under any circumstances play an influential role in matters of foreign policy, defence, management of public finances, and the management of public finances.
and in areas where the state is clearly represented by its competent bodies, both at local and national level.
We believe that a new institutional and legal framework is needed that will categorize and propose the treatment of extreme incidents such as fiery nationalist speeches through the media that divide and fanaticize the people
or the spread of phobic attitudes and inhibitions to the progress and modernization of the country.
In summary, the Union of Centrists recognizes the very important role of the official Orthodox Church in the historical course of our country,
but also recognizes the free activity of all religions within the framework of a democratic constitution and a society open and free to the beliefs of its members.
We support the work of the Church, but not the arbitrary actions of some of its representatives.
The Greece of the future must harmoniously unite the concepts of homeland and democracy
, and the behaviour of agents who see the homeland as prey to be preyed upon and manifestly disrespectful to the concept of democracy must be suppressed by every legal means.
The official Church of Greece cannot be a sanctuary for extreme elements, pro-monarchical beliefs and prey to political impostors who do not see democracy as an essence,
but as an attempt to hide fascist and racist tendencies.
Party funding.18/04/2014 @ 01:16The DISORDERED SITUATIONIt all started in 1984, when Dimitris Tsovolas, then a PASOK MP under Andreas Papandreou, enacted a law on the funding of parties by the state, depending on the strength of their parliamentary presence.
The main justification for the above decision was presented as the uninterrupted operation of a party so that it would not be influenced by any kind of internal or external interests that would use executives to influence situations.
The protection of parties from practices that would erode the foundations of the democratic constitution.
In 2014, ND received about 15.000.000 € from the state treasury while SYRIZA received about 14.000.000 €.
The amounts received by the other parties with a parliamentary presence were similarly lower.
In addition, each party is entitled to an amount equal to the amount of its annual subsidy each time it participates in an electoral process.
So we understand how impudent a law is, especially in the period of austerity we are going through, when it has completely departed from the spirit of its creation,
since it is nowadays a common assumption that corrupt big crooks of unknown origin finance parties with black money for the sake of favourable treatment in matters of state procurement, public works, etc.
In fact, because money is only taken from parties that have already entered parliament, the state is sucking money from certain parties, already bankrupt in the minds of the Greek people,
in order to perpetuate their morbid presence in public life.
At the same time, it becomes particularly difficult for smaller, possibly honest parties, which are by definition incapable of competing with the existing system with their own resources, to rise,
thus starting from a lower base, both in terms of their general economic and accounting operation and in terms of their electoral potential.
These colossal sums are used for the parties' fiestas, to buy the consciences of the voters, to
ensure a stranglehold on the media, to
open offices in the last neighbourhood, to
pay for hotels, food and travel for the elect and all kinds of followers.
A large number of daily workers are also paid to hunker down in party offices,
or to travel ostensibly as supporters on every move or tour of party leaders.
THE POSITION OF THE CENTRAL UNION The Union of Centrists believes that the state should never give money to political parties,
because it is used to perpetuate a patronage-based party system and taxpayers' money is managed by people with shadowy roles who serve scandalous practices
and give a leading role to people who should be in jail
or have been left out of the political game due to incompetence.
The role of the state should be in line with the principles of pluralism, democracy and equality, and not favourable to particular factions.
In this context we propose that:The state should oblige all media to host the announcements of all parties free of charge, especially but not only during an election period.
During the election period, equal media time should be given to all parties with a full complement of parliamentary candidates across the country.
The National Printing House to print the same number of leaflets for each party and these leaflets to be distributed under state responsibility to all citizens
through exhibition stands in squares throughout the country.
Each municipality to be obliged to provide free microphone facilities for the speeches of leaders or officials designated by the parties, in a pre-planned and communicated programme.
Each municipality should also ensure free accommodation for the offices of all parties in each county capital
and free maintenance of these offices, at least during the election period.
During the election period, the Ministry of Press should oblige all television media in the country to broadcast a certain number of advertising messages free of charge, and
sufficient time should be provided for speeches or debates by party representatives on television and radio, also free of charge.
Provide postage allowance to party leaders
and ensure conference halls and travel expenses for a limited number of party leaders from each party for movements within or outside Greece, at least during the election period.
To stop completely the uncontrolled poster sticking and other similar paper warfare expenditures, to demonstrate environmental sensitivity and to have a
specific poster sticking area in the squares where parties can communicate their actions throughout the year.
More generally, the spirit of the Centrist Union is to support the state's effort to provide communication opportunities and logistical infrastructure for the operation of political parties,
but without the comparative advantages of some parties over others.
It is essential for the proper functioning of the above system that state supervision be established, with the participation of prosecuting authorities,
to ensure proper management and equal treatment between parties, old and new.
Anyone who in various ways spends money in elections to win their candidacy at the expense of others will face immediate confiscation of their assets.
In the context of the free operation of parties, the Centrist League is not opposed to funding from its own funds, up to a certain amount for donations from individuals and organisations.
Any amount donated will be recorded both on the internet and in the Transparency Committee of the Parliament
and will be available for any citizen to check and will be included in both the party's balance sheet and the donor's tax return.
Parties participating in the government formation will be excluded from the settlement of issues when there is a conflict of interest in relation to the origin of their funding.
We seek the definitive abolition of the Tsovola Law on party funding and we are in favour of a political culture in the media,
without loud shouting, debates with specific rules to be respected by all guests and avoiding any kind of verbal provocation.
Exploitation of our mineral wealth.18/04/2014 @ 01:13 One of the biggest trades of hope in our country since it was hit by the crisis has to do with the exploitation of our mineral wealth.
Many people refer to the possible existence of exploitable oil and hydrocarbon resources as a manna from heaven,
believing that it is perhaps the only necessary condition to get rid of memoranda and austerity policies and as a means for the country's independence from European control.
The subsoil deposits of our country can be exploited, but they are not the solution to the economic problem
, since the revenues will come gradually, over a time horizon of decades and will hardly reach the most optimistic forecasts.
Neighbouring countries such as Turkey have outsourced mining to foreign companies under not so favourable conditions
, while the fact is that international standards do not allow countries such as Greece to reap the full revenues of such a process,
since both the know-how and the logistical equipment are expensive and are not covered by the domestic industrial infrastructure.
According to our constitution, Greece must require an exploitation horizon of at least fifty years with 12% of the annual gross revenues (turnover) from oil sales coming non-negotiably to the Greek state.
Of course, all this presupposes the completion of the studies, the identification of the sources that are economically advantageous for extraction
and the settlement of any geopolitical issues that may arise in the process.
The same percentage (12% of the annual gross revenue (turnover) from sales) must be received by the Greek State from any kind of exploitation -
mining of all precious and non-precious metals or special lands,
with a revision to this percentage in all existing contracts.
If we assume that tomorrow morning we start mining the deposits in the Ionian Sea, we should know that the first money will come in at least eight to nine years,
because we need research and very expensive facilities
, and the environmental conditions set by the EU that we have to respect are very strict and increase the cost of mining even more.
Therefore, it needs special attention, since in case of an accident, the fines that will be imposed will be huge.
The Union of Centrists is in favour of the exploitation of our country's subsoil,
but we should not place our hopes for a better future solely on this sector.
The whole process is time-consuming and costly until it starts to pay off.
The benefits for the whole population of Greece will be visible in the long term, with the immediate (and most important short term benefit) being the employment of unemployed labour.
Family - "DEPOS" file.18/04/2014 @ 01:08DEPOS DRAFT - MEASURES FOR THE FAMILYSubsidy for the Greek mother with 450 € per month for each child, until the child turns 18 years old.
Reduction of rents, so that the rent for the people's housing does not exceed 1/3 of the basic wage of a worker.
Providing shelter to the homeless, through the Public Enterprise. Urbanization of DEPOS in the countryside, in the framework of a decentralization program.
Those who will get free housing from this program will be required to work for at least 15 years (normally paid) in factories or construction sites in the province, which will be located in industrial zones in the settlements of the DEPOS.
The settlements of the DEPOS will be made by the method of counterpart with funding from our expatriates abroad.
"DEPOS" file "Unauthorized buildings in our country are a heavy and abnormal situation that has been causing severe suffering for decades to thousands of families
with low incomes and the state in all its expressions (urban planning, justice, local government, economy, order, prestige).
This situation is sustained by two sources: One is purely human: Theneed to ensure that the inhabitant of an organised settlement can also ensure his way of life,
with the basic element being his shelter and with an additional demand today, the environment
and public utilities and housing projects.
The other source, the one that was allowed to exploit the first in the crudest way.
The ownership of residential land, that is, which speculatively manipulated the whole affair, even with legal partitions, with encroachments of forest or public lands, falsification of property titles, encroachments of beaches and in many other ways.
By thus giving a piece of field (parcel of land in the legal contract) it offers a supposedly "plot of land", but faked,
since the term "plot of land" means a part of a city that is organized, even if only rudimentarily.
He thus collects 100 to 500 or more times the price of the field.
Surplus profitsDespite these surpluses and the legitimate way they are created, the property does not sell any of these "parcels" but only 30 to 40% and even the worst.
It then uses the new owners as a "spearhead" and attempts to legalize the remaining 70% of its own choice plots.
So here too, the pressure for legalisation, although it seems to be based on the social demand of securing cheap housing, again serves new interests at the expense of the urban whole.
There is then renewed pressure to give them floors and more favourable building rates.
Prices are raised to unaffordable levels for new settlers, who have the same possibilities as the first patients.
In the case of all arbitrary buildings, the human demand for shelter is put forward,
while the greed of ownership and the pursuit of excessive property surplus value are concealed.
The Centre Union has long pointed out the speculative tendencies of property
and the capture of lower middle income families in the net of this speculation.
Even those who legalized such arbitrary buildings acquired houses without infrastructure,
without planning, without the basic conditions and then paid dearly and in money.
HISTORICAL BACKGROUNDWithin this circuit sprouted a multitude of morbid effects, such as the sinister methods of taking primary land from its first peasant owners at a paltry price
and converting it, without any contribution from the property, into very expensive residential land or systematic trespassing or falsification of titles and property boundaries.
There are also illegal occupations and logging of forests and there are basic suspicions of arson for land clearance
and attempts to shock the consciences of state officials, violations of laws, etc.
The first and perhaps the only person who attempted to clean up the swamp of arbitrary buildings, by creating a new policy in the area of settlements (old and new) was the rector of the NTUA and Minister of Public Works of the first post-independence governments, Kyprianos Biris.
Kyprianos Biris drafted articles 21 and 24 of the constitution and founded DEPOS (Public Enterprise for Housing and Housing),
which had the mission of reforming existing settlements, in accordance with the rules and laws.
Specifically, DEPOS would reconstruct settlements that operate in a primitive and chaotic way and would rebuild new settlements without funding from the state, using the
method of consideration, with money from our expatriates abroad, who wanted to buy houses in their homeland, without the risk of becoming victims of an unscrupulous developer,
under the supervision and guarantee of the state.
In other words, DEPOS would offer thousands of our expatriates the opportunity to buy a cheap house in their homeland for their children with the guarantee of the state.
The DEPOS would also give the opportunity to thousands of owners of unfinished and unbuildable plots
to replace their worthless property with a building of equal value in modern settlements.
In addition, DEPOS would give the opportunity to the Local Government and the Church of Greece and the public sector
to exchange unused or useless land they own with income-generating assets of equal value through legal procedures.
However, the greatest benefit that DEPOS would do is that with the surplus housing it would create it would house newly married couples free of charge, who would move to the countryside in new modern settlements in the framework of a decentralization program,
provided of course that they worked in factories or other jobs for fifteen years, regularly paid,
so that the whole of Greece would develop economically with symmetry of population in relation to area.
THE EXCHANGE The implementation of the DEPOS goals would improve life throughout the country, would
make housing an affordable right for all Greeks,
would isolate landlords and feudal landowners
who want to achieve absurdly high land surplus value by extorting the state and our society.
However, the goals of DEPOS for the acquisition of economic self-sufficiency of the Local Government and the Church of Greece, as well as the connection of our expatriates with their homeland through housing, are not of minor importance.
Despite the fact that Articles 21 and 24 of the Constitution provided the state with all the possibilities to solve the issue of arbitrary buildings and despite the fact that DEPOS was founded and more than 300 scientists, civil engineers and architects were hired,
and despite the fact that Kyprianos Biris gave his heart and soul to the implementation of the whole plan,
everything remained on paper and on the back burner,
after landlords and landowners demanded that MPs of all parties put the plan in the freezer because it spoiled their speculation plans.
Thus Konstantinos Karamanlis fired Kyprianos Biris as Minister, the traditional policy that fed arbitrariness continued
and housing is an unrealized dream for the wage-earners and poor Greek families.
But the saddest thing is that the ministers that followed, instead of solving the problem of arbitrary buildings, they exacerbated it.
The ICPOS has not been dissolved, but its more than 300 highly paid employees are engaged in other, parasitic and secondary activities.
THE SCANDAL The existence and the non-performance of DEPOS and the payment by the state of 300 scientists without offering any substantial work, is a scandal of the first magnitude, which newspapers and TV stations manage to remain unknown to the Greek people.
The Centrist Union today has the entire archival material of Kyprianos Biris with his enormous intellectual heritage, which he handed over before his death to President Vassilis Leventis, who had even assisted in the writing of the above articles.
At this point we must underline the responsibilities of all the administrations of the Land Bank, the bank that, although it was founded with the mission of providing housing to those who lack it, ended up performing banking services similar to other commercial banks
and even asking for real estate guarantees in order to give mortgage loans, in violation of its statutory contract.
The Land Bank would operate in parallel with DEPOS as a Land Bank and would facilitate all private and public transactions with DEPOS.
It is sad that Constantine Karamanlis, Prime Minister of the governments of '74 to '81, while he enacted Articles 21 and 24 of the Constitution of '75, while he founded the DEPOS, then succumbed to vested interests and left such a big deal in the middle.
But it is equally tragic that governments like PASOK's after '81, which on paper want to be called socialist, perpetuated a predatory way of acquiring housing,
which increases arbitrariness,
makes life in the cities stressful and suffocating,
gives the rich opportunities to build in forests,
on beaches and in luxury suburbs, and for the wage-earners the dream of acquiring housing became more and more distant.
The "Kyprianos Biris" file, along with the Julian Wars of '65 (with the royal coups) and the Colonel Junta, are admittedly some of the darkest pages of the century that has just ended.
The Centre Union will introduce a tax on high-value properties and residences, especially at the transfer stage.
The capital gains on real estate will be taxed as income from any occupation is taxed, so the increase in the value of real estate should be taxed, because that is also income.
The first home will remain tax-free for all Greeks,
but large estates must be taxed.
The measure will also stimulate entrepreneurship, as land and property will cease to be the way of channelling society's savings.
Business environment.18/04/2014 @ 00:57The Centrists' Union considers it of primary importance for any reorganization of the business sector and private initiative to clarify the issues related to the country's finances.
The economic vision of the Union of CentristsWe are against state-owned bureaucratic capitalism,
but we believe that it is imperative that the state exercise control over the economic life of the country.
The current model-systems in the economy have failed.
So we need inspiration, a sense of justice, transparency and boldness.
We support the model that ensures dignity and opportunity for all
while putting a brake on the gluttony of the powerful.
The model of development that the Union of Centrists seeks to implement is one that truly seeks modern entrepreneurs and investors.
Everyone has equal rights in Greece.
The Centrist Union is not opposed to the free market.
But we have to impose rules and an institutional framework to limit capital.
A capital which is the driving force in the states,
but which must also draw from the Left values such as humanism,
the struggle for equality and meritocracy, support for the weak, the need for a welfare state.
This "economic theory" of the Centre gives vision, governmental perspective while inspiring our fellow citizen, a value system for a state of social justice,
which will ensure the citizen dignity and will oblige the powerful and the rich to transparency and control.
The economic model in which the Centrist Union believes is a form of economy based on free private initiative facilitated, assisted and supported by strong development incentives from the state,
a state with few representatives, staffed with worthy and competent executives who have the training and knowledge for their mission.
The mission of the state should be to control the observance of institutions and laws, i.e. to supervise the market, to
ensure equal opportunities for persons and efforts, to
fight the growth of trusts and economic patronages, to
prevent the penetration of a centre of interests in areas of conflicting roles.
Our aim is to stop, for example, the big media owners from controlling
and informing society in the way they want
while at the same time participating in the economic life of the country as contractors of public works and government procurement.
We seek to support the weak with reasonable but substantial sacrifices by the strong, to
secure resources to manage unemployment and social exclusion,
maternity and to achieve high performance in areas such as free public education, public health,
decentralisation, energy production, residential regeneration and the revitalisation of the moribund and perhaps dead hearths of the Greek countryside.
The Centrist Union seeks to ensure growth with respect for the environment and the common man,
a growth that requires incentives for many and opportunities for all.
Cartels, market trusts, patronage, favoritism of any kind are actions that prevent healthy competition, they can be
fought and destroy efforts to recover our economy.
We seek, through our proposal on the business environment, investment and our proposal for the reform of Greece's tax framework,
to ensure that all businesses have the same operating rules.
In all investments the main element will be the restoration of the environment
and the implementation of the relevant scientific studies, strictly supervised by the designated bodies.
The environment will not stop development, but development will be harmonised with the European Union
and the forests of our country and archaeological treasures will be protected at all costs.
Arbitrary building will become a thing of the past and all cities will provide public spaces,
spaces for walking and spaces to cultivate mental and physical health for our young people.
We will protect our beaches by severely punishing those who build on them.
There will be no exceptions or favours.
The citizen will always be at the centre of the state's attention.
The Centrist Union is committed to doing everything possible to improve the quality of life and the quality of everyday life of the citizen.
High technology, tourism, industry and crafts, trade and services
as well as our mineral wealth will be exploited and rationally organised,
because all this will generate revenue for the state for social welfare,
public health,
free public education
and the guarantee of a social pension at a level of dignity for all Greeks.
A state that is not developing has very little room for supporting the weaker classes, which is why the Centre Union will put all its weight on the development of the country.
Our goal is for the people not to live on loans, but on their own earnings, our goal is for future generations not to be indebted to the mistakes of the present and the past.
It is wrong to concentrate money in a few hands.
It is a crime that the size of some is due to the elimination of small and medium-sized ones.
Entering the Parliament, the Centrist Union intends to stamp out the party state and ensure meritocracy and transparency in all areas of economic and business life.
The public sector will cease to be a dream for solving the labour problem of our young people,
private and public sector labour rights will be equalised and our farmers will be protected.
Agricultural income can be secured, but this will also come from modernising research and cultivation methods.
Farmers, livestock farmers and all contributors to the primary sector of the economy must be helped at all costs.
After all, we owe a lot to our locals who are the most beautiful part of our society and proud as people.
We must not forget that a large percentage of them are the ones who paid a heavy price for our country's entry into the European Union
and we ought to support them, even now.
The main conditions for growth are: the stabilisation of our economy.
The return of capital to banks that has flowed abroad.
The arrival of substantial investments from European countries in Greece, as a guarantee of our stay in the euro.
With all these sufficient and necessary conditions fulfilled, we propose the following:
That every business, or liberal profession, should receive substantial assistance in the first five years of its activity.
The measure is considered necessary to reduce unfair competition between old and new activities
and because the economy that the Centre Union stands for is not an oligopoly,
but growth is ensured by the possibility of new blood entering the market in any form.
The participation of the workers of large companies in their profits, up to 12%, in order to revitalize the economy
and give the state the necessary incentives for work at no cost to the state.
The Greek tax system suffers (among other things) from an inability to collect taxes, due to its complexity.
Its simplification, with our motto "Restarting Taxation", aims to :Not create financial criminals among citizens and businesses.
Decriminalise entrepreneurship (fairer tax system).
Reduce the operational costs of collecting state taxes through a smaller number of employees involved in collection.
To automate, with the use of high technology, the procedures in
order to achieve faster service to all stakeholders and at the same time fairer achievement of the procedures.
Through automation, minimize contact between potential tax evaders and tax officials,
so as to eliminate the potential for illegal collusion between tax officials and taxpayers.
Without underestimating the work of the OAED, which must remain in a supervisory and supportive role, the municipalities of our country, as aware of the needs of their region, must create employment offices,
where every unemployed citizen will have the opportunity, by submitting his/her CV and full contact details, to place himself/herself in the available workforce of his/her region.
Candidate employers, through a single online platform (with the participation of all municipal employment offices), should be able to
access this information and be able to search for workers to meet their needs.
Award of public worksAgreement on proportionality in the award of public works and public procurement.
No company will be able to carry out projects above a certain threshold.
A crackdown on corruption and a real ban on media owners being owners of public works companies and companies supplying the public sector.
Business financeBank funding should go to SMEs with greater liquidity.
That is, to stop the monopoly of big business
and the loans issued to the financial establishment (sea loans).
Mandatory regulation of all business loans, which have been classified since 2009 as "red loans", in order to
refinance viable businesses on terms that will not deprive them of liquidity and therefore of their chance of survival.
Return of fundsThe Union of Centrists calls for the control through the Bank of Greece of entrepreneurs and individuals who have taken money abroad during the crisis,
i.e. from 2009 onwards.
According to Bank of Greece data, 60,000 persons have exported €90 billion over the last six years, which is missing from the banks and therefore the banks do not have sufficient liquidity.
We consider this to be a crime and therefore all these persons should be taxed retroactively on the basis of the money they made abroad.
The E.C. proposes a 15% tax rate retroactively and in force for future transfers outside Greece, even to EU countries.
But it gives a parallel incentive of amnesty to all persons who have done so to date,
because under normal circumstances they would have to be prosecuted.
We seek the return of funds to Greece, against a 15% tax rate, for those incomes for which there is insufficient evidence of legal possession.
Legally acquired and non-legally acquired,
if we do not first ensure our stay in the Euro and a stable tax, business and investment environment.
Our proposal is comprehensive and aims to support the above factors to stabilize our economy.
ProhibitionsProhibiting any media owner from owning any other business.
Stopping the possibility of setting up subsidiaries of a group to exceed this limit and tackling oligopolies and similar practices.
The Greece of the future will not be the Greece of very large companies, but the Greece in which both small and medium-sized companies can become large.
Immigration18/04/2014 @ 00:47 The Centre Union proposes a series of measures for the immediate management of the phenomenon, so that it can be fully mapped and managed.
They are summarized in the following steps:Granting Greek citizenship to the children of foreigners born in Greece, who have attended Greek schools continuously and have reached the age of 18.
Granting Greek citizenship to those who have sufficient documentation of legal residence and meet the requirements of the relevant laws.
Guarantee medical care, before returning to their home countries, for those who do not have sufficient documentation of legal residence and lack sufficient resources.
Respect for human life, both legal and non-legal residents in Greece.
Continuous updating of residence and employment data of economic migrants.
Return to their home countries for those who do not have sufficient documentation of legal residence.
Impose a limit on the amount of money immigrants can export abroad, at 25% of their total income.
Increased penalties for racist attacks and discrimination based on origin - race.
Prosecution to the extent of a criminal offence of those who employ migrants with insufficient documentation of residence in Greece.
In the Union of Centrists, we believe that a common position of all EU member states is necessary, with a proportional distribution of the burden and central planning on the issue of immigration.
With a common stance of the EU member states, we call for all economic migrants to be registered, provided with a residence card
and to become citizens of their host country after 10 years.
We call for an end to all forms of discrimination and persecution against them and for them to be treated equally in terms of employment and social security.
We call for a ban on racist and fascist attitudes and behaviour.
Obviously we are concerned about the increased number of migrants but we hope that the EU will show tolerance on this issue,
as there is no magic solution to the problem with a quota.
You apply the quota when you call for registration of all migrants and apply the policy of "Controlled Entry of Migrants".
Those we want and need we invite.
When we exceed the number of migrants that our economy can absorb and exploit, there are now risks of social explosions and national sovereignty.
The serious solution that we believe in the Union of Centrists is that the EU must understand that we, as a country, cannot become a warehouse for illegal immigrants because we cannot accommodate so many.
If, for example, we can take 700 000 people, the others must be gradually distributed to other states that need their labour to accommodate them.
They may well provide us with the resources to host them in Greece until they can accept them.
Greece is a member of the European Union and its territory is considered to be Europe's border to the East.
By illegally entering the borders of Europe, one illegally enters the European Union.
It is wrong to say that Greece has, for example, 3,000,000 illegal immigrants, it is more correct to say that Europe has tens of millions of illegal immigrants, of which 3,000,000 in spatially small Greece.
The conditions in the detention centres are unacceptable.
Not just in a European country, nor in a Third World country does one expect such treatment of immigrants.
Migrants are human beings too and should be treated humanely by their host states, not as criminals and murderers.
Improving the reception conditions for illegals apprehended at land and sea borders.
Consultation with the EU on the feeding and housing of migrants
as well as on the possibility of resettlement in all EU countries of incoming migrants in the Greek territory, which is a gateway to Europe.
The Euro as the currency of Greece.18/04/2014 @ 00:42Euro: The easy alibi of mismanagementIn the Union of Centrists, we believe that we entered the Euro without our economy having the necessary infrastructure to cope with the challenges.
Simply put, Greece entered the Euro, unprepared for the challenges that our entry implied.
Greece's entry into the Eurozone was mainly a geopolitical transaction, so that Greece would be a buffer to the ever-increasing size of the Turkish economy.
Greece not only failed to take advantage of the prospects presented by its entry into the Eurozone
to become a rationalised service economy, but it retained the pathologies that characterised it:
A huge public sector with exorbitant salaries of certain public employees and public services.
Huge salaries for MPs, ministers, prime ministers and other elected officials
, but also for former MPs, former prime ministers and other former officials.
Pensions in the public sector at ages below 65, 60 and even below 50.
Sickness pensions based on false information.
Misappropriation of NSRF and other benefits from the EU, specific entrepreneurs (the purpose of the benefits was to be distributed to as many as possible
in order to develop micro-entrepreneurship in the service sector and to follow the economic recovery program of Greece.
Only minimal efforts have been made to combat tax evasion (the annual loss from non-refund of VAT alone is estimated at €10 billion).
Squandering of NSRF funds to recruit D.O.D.'s
and expanding the public sector to buy voters to maintain positions of power.
Waste of resources of the NSRF and other European programmes of benefits to the primary sector in the above mentioned.
Expansion of agricultural cooperatives through recruitment
instead of directing resources towards improving agricultural infrastructure and facilitating the remaining farmers
to engage in full-time professional activity based on the exploitation of land.
Directing any growth through consumption: Greece has reached the point of inviting, attracting and considering the opening of multinational retail companies as an investment
, while at the same time imposing unbearable conditions for the establishment and operation of companies producing all kinds of products.
These are only part of the problem of Greece.
The positions of the CC are firm and non-negotiable.
At this moment at least, it is unthinkable to think about and seek an exit from the Eurozone.
It might have made sense to do so, if as an economy we had created the conditions for exit:
Reducing the cost of running the state.
Reduction of salaries and abolition of pensions of elected leaders, i.e. MPs, ministers, prime ministers, the President
and those who previously held these positions, respectively.
Abolition of public sector pensions for those under 65, excluding pensions for health reasons.
Abolition of imputed (virtually non-existent) income.
A ban on double and multiple pensioners and a ban on the same person receiving more than one pension.
Reduction of the number of advisers to ministers and the return of seconded and temporary employees in ministries, parties and MPs to the services to which they belong.
Today these are estimated at around 12,000 people.
Reduction of public sector operating costs through the integration
and use of Free/Open Source Software in government information systems.
Universal use of open source information systems in every process in the public and wider public sector.
Creating conditions for growth such as a stable tax environment.
Targeting VAT collection through anti-evasion incentives.
Radical reform of the OAEE and other insurance funds
Encouragement for investment in the agricultural sector.
Reforms for a strong GreeceWe seek to create the conditions in Greece where our fellow citizens who are in proven default are
not treated as criminals by an indifferent state.
As of July 2014, a Task Force report considers that €50 billion of the €67.5 billion of overdue debts to the State should be written off,
as they will never be recovered as they mostly concern heavy fines even for minor tax offences.
Agriculture and Tourism, the strength of our country In Greece, we have the conditions for growth through the two main pillars of our economy, namely primary production and tourism.
By creating the above conditions that will boost the untapped potential of scientists and people with dozens of skills that are now unemployed, we have the following possibilities:
to seek better terms for negotiating Greece's debt, having now liquidity capable of repaying the obligations.
Having shown our lenders and the markets that we can manage our own finances, we
can now borrow on better terms.
Having implemented the above as a country and having strengthened our national economy, we can reach the point where we can choose between keeping the Euro as our national currency or returning to the Drachma.
18/04/2014 @ 00:39 The 1990s - 2000s was a period of disarmament of the corrupt.
Newspapers, television, radio, public works companies, public procurement companies, refineries, magazines, casinos, football, travel companies, polling companies, the stock market and much, much more, are the noble hobbies of the corrupt.
Some people are now coming out in surprise and crying out against the corrupt.
All the time that the Parliament has been self-aggrandising itself by voting for whatever Mr Lambrakis, Mr Tegopoulos, where were they all?
They weren't voting, they weren't appearing on Lambrakis' channels.
Weren't they the ones who commissioned the public works, weren't they the ones who struggled to get an appointment with the tycoon?
Really, how much hypocrisy does one have to have or how stupid does one have to be to first make tycoons and then denounce them?
The beast has become a colossus.
Now who can stop it?
The beast funds parties, funds politicians, raises and brings down governments.
The pimple became a carcinoma.
Now what?
Soon when some people get tired of shouting, or when the complainants are bribed or compromised, the beast will remain.
The corrupt will continue to rule.
Politicians will continue to be servants of Lambrakis, Kokkalis, Tegopoulos, Alafouzos, Vardinoyannis.
When the storm breaks, the interlopers will have much more power.ω
From this confrontation between society and the interlopers, society will come out the loser.
To the damage done by the corrupt will be added the fear of the ordinary citizen, who now knows their omnipotence.
The Union of Centrists singles out as top scandals that have affected Greece:The 1999 Stock Exchange scandal.
The SIEMENS scandal.
This distinction is of course made without underestimating the others.
Because PASOK and New Democracy as the parties involved are striving for impunity and statute of limitations,
we will fight for the prosecution of the accused.
Cultural and political disenchantment Our people are indifferent and apathetic, watching the events, getting emotionally charged with the trivial and closing their eyes to their important problems and issues.
The media are constantly looking for subjects, just as the theatres are looking for a script, subjects that will fill our gaps, that will stimulate us, perhaps entertain us.
Low-quality serials (from neighbouring Turkey and Latin American countries), other low-quality programmes, game shows, contribute to cultural and political disenchantment.
People in our country seem to be anxious and anxious lest the ideas of the gentlemen of Ant1 and Mega run dry and not give them something to do.
Virtual reality "The unemployed have no problems, nor do our farmers have problems.
Our pensioners live a wonderful life, some on €200 a month, others on €300 a month, others on €400 a month. So the problems in Greece are solved.
So our people are right to ignore Vassilis Leventis, who is crying for justice, for a reduction of large pensions in order to improve the starvation pensions of the low pensioners,
for democracy and equal opportunities,
for education, work and housing for all.
Our people are right to deny votes to popular fighters and selfless and honest people and to fall victim to the vicious, the politicians, the liars, the liars, the fireplaces and the permanent families of politics.
Since everyone is happy and since they go and vote for PASOK and New Democracy until recently at a rate of 87%
, while today they vote for Sy.Riz.A., An.El., Potami and everything in our country is going well and any resistance and protest is ill-intentioned.
Since the majority of the people vote for the establishment, all of us in the R.C. who are shouting, who are struggling, are out of touch with reality.
So if the people are being dragged into destruction of their own free will, if the people vote for those they vote for and want to live the nirvana of false promises, why should we stop them?
After all, those who went against the people ate, broke their faces.
Do the people like the spectacle, the intrigue, the buffoonery, the falsehood, the treachery?
Do the people like the state of today's Greece?
Very well, we have no objection.
But a people who seek the oblique and the insidious to make themselves comfortable,
a people who vote against their own interests for those who plunder them,
this people has no right to speak or to protest.
So let's never again see pensioners on the streets, let's stop all protests by workers, unemployed, students, farmers.
War against the establishmentThe Union of Centrists is systematically silenced by all the media, because it demands the punishment of the corrupt big publishers for their participation in the 1999 stock market scandal,
given that the protagonists of the scandal are the current channel owners.
We insist on the removal of the corrupt from media ownership.
This is a political position with a cost to us, but if Greece is currently dragged through the mire of corruption, it is because the
ownership of the media has gone to people with criminal assets.
For us, cracking down on the corrupt is our position, it is a struggle.
We want anyone who owns a newspaper to be banned from owning a television.
Also, anyone who owns an SME should be prohibited from owning public works companies or engaging in any other kind of activities.
So a knife must be put into the interlocking.
Because some people's greed has no limits, and the people, immature and weak, at the time of the ballot box, do not remember their country but their unemployed child, who was promised by a swindler to be appointed to the public service!
The scandal has tired our people, especially since no one is punished and all those responsible manage to get away with it.
Stock Exchange Scandal 1999The great robbery of Greek society took place in 1999 in the stock exchange, when Greece had 40 trillion dirhams of liquidity and 33 trillion was taken by a dozen people.
The crime of the stock market is not that people lost their money, because when you go to the stock market you either win or you lose.
The crime is that while this money is intended for business expansion,
for interest-free business support, it
went into the stock market to be interest-free business support.
To have new money, plenty of it, interest-free, and to create jobs and expand the production process.
That is the mission of the stock exchange.
The people who went to the stock exchange indirectly supported this cause, the interest-free support of companies.
But they were making fake purchases when they took other companies' money, they wrote in the contracts ten times the price, they paid only the 5% transfer tax on public shares
and they channeled the money into shipping by buying ships
and in the audit that the SEC did after six months they presented the fake contracts and said here's where the money went.
They bought a company for 400 million dirhams and in the contracts they wrote 20 billion.
They were paying 5% of the 20 billion, they preferred to lose 5% to launder the other 95% to shipping,
which was the only way of laundering sure money that even a prosecutor couldn't find you,
and so that 33 trillion went into shipping to save a dozen or so people,
to make ships and our industry was not helped at all,
production was not boosted and a psychological depression began from then on,
and while the money was taken from his people, it did not fall into Greece but went to offshore companies in Honduras and Panama to buy ships.
The scandal of the stock market is that the money received by the companies from the people (the small shareholders) was not invested to expand their activities,
but instead was smuggled abroad by the owners of the companies,
or invested in shipping, or laundered to legitimate businesses.
That is, they bought companies by writing false and exorbitant amounts in the contracts or even bought monkey companies that didn't even have activities,
they were buying expensive so that they would have to present fictitious contracts to the SEC audit,
that they had allegedly channelled the money into legitimate investments.
Thus, our country did not benefit either, the small shareholders were deceived and lost their money.
and the chairmen and directors of the listed companies committed the offences of forging contracts,
to smuggle money overseas,
to launder money,
offences that are felonies and therefore can be punished until 2019.
This frightens these gentlemen and they have instructed the channels they own to completely block Vassilis Leventis and every member of the CENTROS UNION.
People think that the crime of the stock market is that they lost their money, but that's not it,
because when you go to the stock market you can win, you can lose.
The felonies that are not statute-barred are the ones I described above.
The stock market in our countryAnd right now some people are playing the stock market.
Those with information are playing, for example, those who are waiting for the share of e.g. National Bank with the prospect of a 3% gain within a few days,
versus a 2% or 3% gain if they continue to save in a bank.
In the past the same was true, but many people invested their money in the stock market and left it for 2 to 3 years to maximize their profits.
Our economy, at this stage, has nothing to gain from the stock market, which is following the same course as Greece.
As the Union of Centrists, we denounced the facts: that ten people robbed Greece of its citizens and then bought media with the ultimate aim of blackmailing governments,
getting projects and supplies.
These are the same people who have been muzzling the Centrist Union for a long time.
The Union of Centrists communicates its positions through the internet and regional channels, which regional channels
have some journalists who are small in "name" but big in courage and bravery.
Stock Exchange scandal 1999.18/04/2014 @ 00:27The robbery against society took place in 1999 at the stock exchange.
At the time when Greece had 40 trillion drachmas of liquidity and through the Stock Exchange, 33 trillion out of 44 trillion was siphoned off by a group of ten people.
The crime of the stock market is not that citizens lost their money.
When one turns to the stock market, one does so knowing that one will either win or lose.
The money invested in the stock market is intended to provide interest-free support for businesses.
The people who have invested and are investing in the stock exchange are indirectly supporting this objective, that is, the disinterested support of the companies involved in the procedures.
The group of ten, however, used the investment money to make virtual purchases.
Taking other companies' money, they would write on the contracts ten times the purchase price, paying only the 5% transfer tax on public shares and channel the money into other activities (such as shipping) by buying, for example, ships.
In the audits done by the SEC, after six months they would present the fake contracts and "there goes the money".
They were paying 5% of the 20 billion, they preferred to lose 5% to launder the other 95% to shipping,
which was the only way of laundering sure money that even a prosecutor couldn't find you,
and so that 33 trillion went into shipping to save the members of the ten-man group
and in turn invested in shipping activities such as the purchase of ships.
Our industry has not been helped at all.
The production was not boosted and a psychological depression began from then on,
and while the people of the world took the money, it did not fall into Greece but went to off-shore companies to buy ships.
The scandal of the stock market is that the money that the companies received from the people (the small shareholders) was not invested to expand their activities,
but instead were smuggled abroad by the owners of the companies,
or invested it in shipping, or laundered it to legitimate businesses.
They bought companies by writing false and exorbitant amounts in the contracts or even bought companies with zero activity,
they were buying expensive so that they would have to present fictitious contracts to the SEC audit,
that they had allegedly channelled the money into legitimate investments.
Thus, our country did not benefit either, the small shareholders were deceived and lost their money.
and the chairmen and directors of the listed companies committed the offences of forging contracts, smuggling money abroad,
laundering money, offences that are felonies and therefore punishable until 2019.
This frightens these gentlemen and they have instructed the channels they own to completely block Vassilis Leventis and every member of the Union of Centrists.
People think that the crime of the stock market is that they lost their money, but that's not it, because when you go to the stock market you can win, you can lose.
The stock market in our countryAnd right now some people are playing the stock market.
Those who have good information play.
Those who expect the stock of a bank (such as the National Bank) with a profit target of 3%.
If you gain 3% in one day it is important.
Unlike a simple bank account, where the annual return can be as low as 3%.
So right now, the stock market is played by those who have information and invest the money for one day only.
The next day they withdraw them.
As opposed to a lot of people, who put it in and left it for 2-3 years for the economy to develop.
The economy has nothing to gain from the stock market today, the landlord is not approaching the landlord today, only the lackeys are making money in the stock market.
The only remaining ways for the Centrist Union to be heard are through the internet and through regional media, in which
some local journalists, with great courage and bravery, highlight the Centrist Union.
Foreign policy18/04/2014 @ 00:23Our foreign policy needs broad horizons, imagination, planning, oligology and hard work to convince internationally.
These elements were unfortunately missing in Greece in the last 40 years and while one would have expected that after the mistakes of the military dictatorship of 1967 the post-opening would have been more serious, unfortunately this was not the case.
And all this in 40 days, resolutions that Konstantinos Karamanlis, through his inaction and his cowardice, then saw to it that they were consigned to the dustbin.
Now we are all waiting for Vassilis Leventis and the younger politicians of the centre to restore the damaged prestige of our country
and bring the prestige of our Greece to where it belongs for its democratic people.
Below are the main axes - positions of the Union of Centrists on Greece's foreign policy.//F.Y.R.O.M. (P.G.D.t.M.)The Union of Centrists had warned since 1994 about the need to find a solution to the issue of the neighbouring state.
But his leadership wants it all: The flag with the sun of Vergina, the irredentist ambitions, i.e. the exit to the Aegean and the port of Thessaloniki, the help and assistance of the U.S.A. and the EU.
Our position is that Greece cannot accept the name "Macedonia" for this state, either individually or as a compound, and therefore its name should be changed.
The Skopje government has had enough time to backtrack on reasonable positions and lift its unreasonable and unjustifiable demands, but that time is now over.
And their attitude over the years shows an insidious foreign policy.
F.Y.R.O.M. and the European UnionWe agree that it will be supported in its European course only when it shows practical concession on the name issue and abandons its inarticulate cries and intransigence.
At this point we stress the huge responsibility of the US and Russia for rushing to recognize Skopje with the name "Macedonia"
and thus encouraging the harsh and intransigent attitude of extremist elements in the neighbouring country.
Now both the US and Russia, as well as the European Union, must make a decisive contribution to the efforts to find a mutually acceptable solution,
since they bear the greatest responsibility for the years of rigidity that have occurred in the problem.
Not all concessions can be made by Greece, and in any case, the Centrist Union will never recognise Skopje's right to use the term Macedonia.
The state of Skopje has much to benefit from the development of good and sincere relations with Greece
and at this point we regret but we have to record frivolous and condescending attitudes on this issue by Papandreou, Mitsotakis and Simitis.
Greece - Turkey - Turkey's European perspective Turkey may have the illusion of military power as long as it continues its unprovoked harassment by sea or air and insults the goodness of Greece, but it is
gradually turning into a troublemaker in South-Eastern Europe, moving away from the principles and values of the EU
and there is a serious possibility that it will remain outside the EU as a third world pariah state.
Our position on Greek-Turkish relations is that Greece must make every effort to improve our country's relations with neighbouring Turkey
and to encourage the neighbouring country's struggle for more democracy within its borders
and for its full rapprochement, and we hope full accession, to the European Union.
This accession, of course, presupposes that the neighbouring country will comply in practice with the values and treaties of the EU
and will cease to have unethical ambitions over Greece's sovereign rights.
In this way, our country will not only not be an obstacle to Turkey's efforts to integrate into Europe,
but will be a valuable and valuable assistant to its efforts.
We consider any voice denying Turkey its right to join the European Union to be inflammatory, anti-national, fascist and dangerous.
Turkey has no other way but to reconcile itself with the European acquis, to
adapt to all the institutions and rules of the European Union.
Demands from its side for exemptions and favourable treatment undermine its prospects for accession,
expose it internationally and, if they continue, will halt the very good prospects that are currently opening up for the neighbouring country.
The worst thing Turkey can do to itself is to ask for exceptions, discrimination,
further deadlines for compliance with the European acquis
and to create tension in Cyprus, the Aegean and Thrace with statements and threats.
Those inside Turkey who think in terms of militarism, violence and state bullying should be isolated and marginalized immediately.
Turkish claims in the AegeanSince 1973, Greece has been subjected to a rather peculiar and unprecedented, compared to international standards, challenge to its sovereign rights by its eastern neighbour, Turkey,
which has been expressed in practice in many ways and at many levels.
Undoubtedly, the spearhead of Turkish claims is the effort of expansion and securitization by Turkey,
sovereign rights at the expense of the corresponding existing Greek rights in the maritime space of the Aegean Sea.
The Union of Centrists has for years denounced both PASOK and New Democracy for the fact that their attitude and their manipulations allow Turkey to constantly add new issues to the agenda of the Greek-Turkish disputes
and separate them from any discussion on the resolution of the Cyprus issue.
In other words, Turkey wants to impose its own fait accompli on Cyprus and at the same time to increase its claims in the Aegean by drawing Greece into a dialogue
- on its own terms - so that these claims will in time acquire legal validity.
As a consequence of all this, the Turks today have managed to make the network of Greek-Turkish "disputes" in the Aegean Sea appear as a difficult
and intractable issue in the eyes of the international community.
In summary, the issues raised are:The delimitation of the Aegean continental shelf and the size of the continental shelf of each coastal country.
The extent of the coastal zone and the right to extend the territorial sea to 12 nautical miles.
The airspace and the extent of the Greek coastal zone at 10 nautical miles for aviation matters.
The status of the demilitarization of the Greek islands of the East Aegean opposite the coasts of Asia Minor.
The status of certain Aegean rocky islets, with the dispute over the Imia rocky islets at the forefront.
Historical Background Turkey's challenge to Greek rights in the Aegean Sea began on 1 November 1973,
when a map was suddenly published in the Turkish Government Gazette giving the Turkish state oil company TRAO the rights to explore and exploit the Aegean continental shelf in
an area covering almost half of the Aegean Sea.
This map was supplemented by another one, published on 18 July 1974, which completed the framework of the Turkish claims on the Aegean continental shelf,
as with these maps, the Turks divided the Aegean into two approximately equal parts, with the neighbouring country arbitrarily considering the easternmost of the two as its own.
In an attempt by the Turks to prove that they meant their declarations on the continental shelf in practice, in June 1974 the Turkish ship Candarli carried out geological surveys in the Aegean Sea, in areas that belonged to the continental shelf of the Greek islands.
This attempt was brazenly and provocatively repeated two years later, when in August 1976 Turkey sent the "Sismiq" to carry out research in areas of the Aegean Sea, which once
again blatantly violated the continental shelf of our islands.
The direct result of Turkish pressure and the first major success of the Turks in implementing this policy towards Greece was the signing of the agreement of 11 November 1976 between the two countries on the "Bern Protocol".
According to what was agreed, Greece was obliged to immediately stop all such oil exploration in the allegedly disputed areas of the Aegean continental shelf.
Unfortunately, this policy of Turkey's fierceness was rewarded by wrong Greek handling in 1987 and 1988,
when, after the intense Greek-Turkish crisis of March 1987, the issue of the continental shelf came to the fore.
Greece then gave the impression that it was rather unprepared for the process that was to follow.
In particular, our country seemed to have managed to successfully resist with proper military preparation and good defence choices and practically prevented the possibility of unilateral and arbitrary Turkish actions.
Actions that the Turks were preparing and proclaiming for the end of March 1987.
However, an oxymoron happened, i.e. the final result of the crisis, with the Davos agreement, instead of strengthening the Greek positions,
gave even more impetus to the Turkish positions and views on the Aegean continental shelf.
In messages exchanged between Prime Ministers Andreas Papandreou and Turgut Ozal, Greece pledged not to carry out geological exploration outside the six-mile limit of the coastal zone.
As a consequence, we officially gave up the right to carry out research for hydrocarbons from the entire Aegean continental shelf.
Therefore, the validity of the areas covered by the abstention from maritime exploration due to the well-known clause of point 6 of the Berne Act
was extended by the Davos procedure twice over, to
include the entire area of the Aegean Sea,
including the western part which had never been claimed by Turkey until then.
The direct result of this commitment is the significant further deterioration of Greek positions in the Aegean,
as the entire sea has become the subject of the dispute,
resulting in the strengthening of Turkish rhetoric at the diplomatic and political level.
Besides, as the subject of the dispute grows, so theoretically does Turkey's ability to claim a larger and larger share of the Aegean continental shelf,
while at the same time potentially larger and larger claims can be put on the table by the Turks.
Consequently, the Turkish share of the mineral resources of the Aegean will grow accordingly,
depriving Greece of a very important natural wealth that rightfully belongs to it.
The government of Costas Simitis was proclaiming that the Greek-Turkish disputes could be resolved through the international court.
But it is understandable that what happens in an arbitration is essentially a compromise of opposing views.
Thus, the one who demands the most and makes the most demands and the largest list of issues to be resolved,
even if he appears to be conciliatory and "back down" for tactical reasons, is in fact the winner,
as he receives a larger share than his share.
On the contrary, the one who does not claim anything from the opponent, as Greece is, will be
forced, in the context of the supposedly "mutual" concessions, to sacrifice part of its demands, which are structured intact, in order to appear conciliatory.
Since the Turks have successfully put a number of issues on the table both in Bern and Davos,
possible arbitration by special courts will undoubtedly give them sovereign rights where once they did not even exist, namely in the Eastern Aegean.
Solution to Turkish provocativeness As long as Turkey continues its unprovoked harassment by sea or by air and its goodwill towards Greece, it can have the illusion of military power,
but gradually it will become a troublemaker in South-Eastern Europe,
moving away from the principles and values of the EU and there is a serious possibility that it will remain outside the EU as a third world pariah state.
We expect Turkey to make an immediate contribution to the solution of the Cyprus problem, to comply with what Cyprus rightly demands as a member of the European Union, to
end the violations committed by its warplanes in the Aegean, to
recognize the Ecumenical Patriarchate
and to reopen the Halki School of Theology.
We expect Turkey to respond to our good intentions, we expect a complete change of behaviour and attitude on bilateral issues,
we expect it to help foster a climate of cooperation and sincere friendship where there is currently tension and threats.
The Union of Centrists guarantees that Greece will be a support to Turkey in all its issues.
Two countries that have had problems with each other up to now can and should be a model of coexistence, integration and solidarity in the future.
It is the duty of both sides to overcome this.
However, we stress that until Greece sees practical goodwill from Turkey, it
is our country's duty to further strengthen our armed forces
and fully modernise our defence systems.
We believe that both Turkey and Skopje will be forced to comply with the rules of international law,
as long as we remain steadfast in our creative and responsible diplomacy.
Cyprus The position of the Centrist Union that Greece must adhere to on the Cyprus problem is the following:
A state of the European Union and the Eurozone cannot have settlers and occupation troops.
The EU's foreign policy is oriented towards strengthening the European Union
and through it to resolve our outstanding issues with our neighbours.
A great Europe has no interest in having friction within itself.
The parties of the centre made Greece bigger, the other parties did minorities and caused disasters.
One need only recall the attitude of Constantine Karamanlis with the Zurich and London agreements on Cyprus and the attitude of the younger Kostas Karamanlis as Prime Minister in Lucerne at the meeting on the Annan plan, an
attitude that reminded one of an unprepared competent Prime Minister lacking experience and previous experience.
On these issues it is good to have coordination with the U.S. especially while the EU is reluctant or unable to take on its full role, its full debt.
Greece and the rest of the world We believe something similar about our relations with Russia.
In its positions on foreign policy, the Centrist Union will follow a course of respecting the rules of international law,
encouraging the processes of completing the dream of a strong European Union,
opening a new period of good relations with the United States, Russia, the large and small countries of the rest of the world,
participating in efforts to overthrow the few remaining dictatorships in the world and in efforts to improve the quality of democracy
where it is pretending to be democracy and in practice functioning as fascism or the
European Union18/04/2014 @ 00:20European UnionThe Union of Centrists has stressed that if the European Union wants to become the rival of the US, if it wants to become the brake on American expansionism, it must soon include Russia,
so that apart from being an economic power it becomes a huge weapon machine that will surely become the superpower of the next century.
But this is not easy, not only because the US is undermining it,
but also because the economic situation of the countries of the former Eastern bloc is currently so volatile and gloomy.
There is a cost to including Russia in the European Union, a cost that its member states today refuse to pay.
But as long as the European Union does not acquire Russia's military machine, it will not have the prospects of a superpower, it will be a mere annex of the United States or an unarmed giant.
The priorities of the Centrist Union in the European Parliament will be:
Promotion of European integration.
Financial solidarity between Member States.
Improving the quality of democracy in all Member States with pluralism in the media.
Adopting proportional representation as the electoral system in all Member States.
Jointly addressing problems of education, health, unemployment, immigration.
Adopt a common policy on trade, tourism, rural development, pensions.
Support for the free movement of ideas and religious beliefs.
Fixing on a common basis the way justice is administered to safeguard the dignity,
property and individual rights of Europe's citizens.
European ConstitutionWe support its adoption and ratification on the principles mentioned above, but we consider it a mistake that some states delayed its ratification in 2004.
Nevertheless, we too have our objections to the text proposed for ratification at that time.
But any objections should not delay the common path, any delay is detrimental to the citizens of Europe.
Euroscepticism is essentially the sum total of often justified objections, but it does not propose anything concrete and allies itself with centres that benefit from a weakened Europe.
The EU must acquire a strong role: diplomatic, economic, even military, because only in this way can it become a counterweight to the omnipotence of the USA.
Of course, when a country becomes a superpower, it knows who it is, what it wants, where it wants to be, whereas when many countries have to come together to become a superpower,
they have to put aside differences, egos,
rivalries, they have to make sacrifices.
However, if these sacrifices succeed then the power is very great.
Economic crisisWith regard to the economic crisis, we believe that countries should turn to quick-return investments.
It is wrong to spend public money on moribund sectors and on failing and irreversible businesses.
There must be solutions for the employment of the non-market labour force with special laws
and to facilitate low-interest lending between countries to ensure monetary and banking stability.
In the economy, there are not always prescriptions, and prudence and determination are needed throughout the length of the crisis.
European Union, ONE and €.The introduction of a common currency in the member states of the European Union is an advanced stage in the integration of the European peoples.
Europe can only unite politically, economically and socially to become a great pole with the prospect of a superpower on the international stage.
Of course, when a country becomes a superpower, it knows who it is, what it wants, where it wants to be,
whereas when many countries have to come together to become a superpower,
they have to put aside differences, egos, rivalries, they have to make sacrifices.
What is EMU?EMU is a system of monetary union, a system that makes money cheaper since it is not subject to the risks of fluctuations, a
system that makes transactions easier since there is no cost of changing currency, a system that allows states, individuals and businesses to be more liberal in their economic strategy, a
system that finally breaks down economic borders within the walls of the European Union.
It is implied that the existence of EMU is conditional on the convergence of economic indicators, the roughly equal creditworthiness of the member states,
the containment of the price premium and the compliance of the member states with the agreed upon structure of economic variables and sectors of the economy.
In other words, lower inflation, lower external debt, lower interest rates and structural adjustment are the first three benefits for the economy, even for non-EU countries,
the fourth (structural adjustment) is an obligation for all states that entered the European Union, regardless of whether they accept EMU or not.
Even more simply, we insist that EMU is in our country's interest, and what is unprofitable is the immoral, unfair,
unequal and socially unacceptable policy that has been pursued in our country for the last thirty years and which would mathematically lead us to our present impasse.
We must keep EMU, we must make use of it, but we must discard the vicious people who have been ruling us for decades.
To the challenges of our times we must answer YES and this is what the CENTRAL UNION is doing,
but those responsible for the humiliation of the country, the debasement of values, why do we continue to vote for them?
The concentration of money in a few intertwined hands is the first major cause.
There is no money, the banks are no longer giving money to small and medium-sized enterprises.
This is what the CENTRAL UNION promises to change, to correct, provided of course that the people vote maturely.
The lack of planning, care by the state and the path of some without prospects in the private initiative sector is the second major cause.
which includes the risk of people losing their money at some point.
The fourth cause is the continued capture of the state by the parties, the continuing trend of appointments and recruitment in the public sector, parochialism and political rot.
Greece is surrendering itself unprotected to the challenge of EMU.Few have the courage to speak the truth, those who speak the truth are not listened to, and the
people do not want the truth because they feel that they have settled and survived in a vicious and morbid system.
Even today, parties like PASOK, which are supposed to be on the side of EMU, on the other hand, are promising recruitment and appointments and hoping to regain the vote under the mentality of the past.
So we have parties that reject EMU out of stupidity or ignorance or infertility,
and parties that support it verbally, but by their actions they put the brakes on it, undermine it or stonewall it, unwilling to restrain their policies in the new circumstances.
And finally we have a UNION OF CENTRES that says yes, it speaks the truth, but it is unknown how much courage or strength a spoiled society has to adopt this truth.
We entered the EU as partners.
By the rules set by the EU (then EEC), as the original partners.
Rules that we have accepted.
In the process, it turned out that Greece did not behave as it should have and did not respect these rules.
We have not reduced deficits, we have not improved the business environment, we have not invested the Delors packages, we have not improved the state apparatus.
Fatefully, the global economic crisis erupted and swept away the economies of countries with pathologies, such as Greece.
We borrowed as a country funds that should have been given to real development (for example infrastructure and incentives for entrepreneurship.
Funds which were given as cash benefits to a portion of our fellow citizens.
We did not invest the money of the Delors packages (to return to the not so distant past) as we were supposed to, but we squandered it.
Fatefully, not having the necessary infrastructure to resist the global economic crisis,
Greece was forced in a few years (4) to do what should have been done gradually over 30 years and, in addition,
to pay back what it had borrowed in previous years and in the worst possible way: overtaxation.
The loans taken by the government of A. Papandreou in the 1980s to pay for the wage increases started to mature in 2010.
Merkel saw that it was in her country's interest to pursue a policy towards Greece (and other European countries with economic problems) that would yield multiple gains.
Is Mrs Merkel's attitude democratic?
She is protecting the interests of the citizens of her country.
This, in itself, a leader protecting his country,
is democratic for Germany,
but perhaps not for Greece, which is one of the countries that are being attacked.
Greece's politicians today are struggling to find ways to service a debt that is almost impossible to deal with without substantial growth.
Substantial growth does not come from selling off Greece's assets
As a country, Greece must be self-sufficient to the maximum extent possible (and import what it is not able to cover from domestic resources)
and give its citizens the opportunity to do business under conditions that are sufficient (for example: stable tax rates for individuals and legal entities)
to create jobs, hence taxable income,
hence stable revenues for our state.
What kind of European Union do we want?Do we want a union with superpower prospects or do we want an annex of the United States?
As far as EMU is concerned, the Greek people remain uninformed;
those who are against EMU again simply blame EMU for the multifaceted crisis that plagues our society.
But the crisis in Greece is due to the fact that for so many years now money has been taken from the European Union and channelled into idle parts or plundered by the manipulators,
our economy has been left unadjusted, inequalities have grown, many sectors have collapsed, the turnover of businesses has fallen desperately,
while the wage-earners and pensioners are already beyond the limits of misery.
So the people blame EMU for the foolish policies of the governments,
while the governments, dealing with an uninformed people,
blame their own mistakes and the crimes they committed, looking for an alibi, on EMU.
So EMU is very helpful for PASOK and for New Democracy,
since they find an alibi for the dishonest policies they have pursued and are pursuing.
There are also parties that accuse EMU of creating a new order
and call on the people to fight against EMU,
but they do not explain to us what is the fault of EMU or what other solution they propose outside and beyond EMU.
These parties are equated with the fanatics who insist on not realising that the days of sterile opposition and wooden language are over.
Health - Sport - Drugs.18/04/2014 @ 00:13Health - Sport - DrugsHealth is public and free for all.
Admission of every citizen to any hospital in the country by simply showing his/her identity card.
Establish free education and free health care
and we will oppose with all our strength the development of for-profit movements in these areas.
Our country's sport will be strengthened.
We are also concerned with championship sport, but we are primarily interested in the sport of our young people,
the possibility of sport in our last village.
Sport is not just about gold medals and the Croissants who run our professional football.
Sport is above all the breeding ground for talent development and the health of our young people and we will contribute to this with all our strengths.
DrugsThe growth of drug rehabilitation centres must reach the stage where every user has the right and opportunities for social reintegration.
Society must treat all drug addicts as victims of the greatest social enemy,
as persons in need of support from all of us.
We must not make the mistake of sending these people to the margins, we will have participated in the crime of their extermination.
The CENTROS UNION has begun an effort to put pressure on bodies such as the church, the municipalities throughout the country, the parents and guardians associations, the sports clubs, the scientific associations and the recognized and transparently operating associations, in order to stimulate their interest and increase their readiness in the whole business of dealing with the problem.
The rot in politics, scandals, all sorts of buffets and the unreliability of political life are factors that send a large part of our youth to "easy" but destructive solutions.
The focus of state and social care must be shifted to the prevention stage.
This will be done through the establishment by municipalities of psycho-spiritual centres
where young people will have the opportunity to engage creatively and immerse themselves in arts such as music and dance, learning foreign languages, participating in workshops on polite and knowledge exchange and in scientific exploration activities and scientific studies,
studying under the supervision of teachers and experts on youth issues The
organisation by the above centres of excursions, meetings, seminars, exchanges of hospitality between centres and participation in all kinds of events is the main responsibility of the managers of each centre.
Furthermore, the cooperation of psycho-spiritual centres with sports clubs will contribute decisively to the formation of a healthy personality among our young people.
The reduction of the penalties imposed on drug users to the minimum possible
and the proper policing of trafficking, with a corresponding tightening of the penalties imposed on drug trafficking, is part of the philosophy of the Centrists' Union.
The increase in the number of detoxification centres must reach the stage where every user has the right and opportunity for social reintegration.
Society must treat all drug addicts as victims of the greatest social enemy, as persons in need of support from all of us.
If we make the mistake of sending these people to the margins, we will have participated in the crime of their extermination.
We regret very much that the police are accused of indifference, perhaps sometimes even of covering up drug trafficking
and we do not forget the opinion expressed years ago by a former minister of the New Democracy, that the coffers of PASOK and the New Democracy have money flowing into their coffers that comes from drug trafficking.
If this view had been considered with due seriousness, perhaps effective steps would now have been taken in the direction of combating drug trafficking in our country.
Many associations, private, user care associations, have offered little, since they are ignored by the state
or are instruments of self-promotion of the pioneers or even methods of speculation.
Society should have reservations about the operation of such associations.
The Union of Centres has started to put pressure on bodies such as the church, the municipalities all over the country, the parents and guardians associations, the sports clubs, the scientific associations and the recognized and transparently operating associations,
in order to stimulate their interest and increase their readiness, in the whole business of dealing with the problem.
The return of our youth to politics will make a very positive contribution.
Young people who are involved in public life, fortify their personality more in the face of similar risks,
the rot in politics, scandals, all kinds of buffets and the unreliability of political life, are factors that send a large part of our youth to "easy" but destructive solutions.
At the same time, the increase in the number of young people involved in sport, and not necessarily championship sport, contributes to collectivity,
the creation of healthy interpersonal relationships,
the formation of healthy consciences
and the relaxation of young people through creative activities.
17/04/2014 @ 23:56 We all know that the initiator of free public education in Greece and perhaps one of the greatest and most brilliant political figures of the 20th century was Georgios Papandreou, the "Old Man of Democracy".
Although he ruled Greece for only 18 months, George Papandreou, wanting to educate the last Greek citizen, instituted free education.
We Centrists and all Greeks must protect the free public education of George Papandreou
and as a party we regret that the education of the Greek people is being betrayed and given to private investors.
Today's situationH power goes beyond the issues of inter-university exchanges, the training of teachers in elementary and secondary education, the
material and technical infrastructure, the practical training of young people alongside theoretical training, the
introduction of relations between teachers and students, the
raising of the level of language proficiency, the
way of electing teachers of higher education, the
clarification of the responsibilities of graduates of T.It
goes beyond vital and hot issues
and attempts to reduce the number of years that children sit at the desks
or, by abolishing the yearbook, tries to make a large number of graduates burn their degrees
or wander off into the para-education,
which is now becoming the vital space of movement of the marginalized.
Results of the implementation of the "reform" so far?
Today education is suffering from arrhythmia.
Soon the meters won't find a pulse to register.
Greek society is returning to self-teaching, to improvisation, to flight.
George Papandreou's vision of an educated people resisting violence seems to be collapsing today.
The field of education is full of adventurers, and private interests are sharpening their machetes in order to penetrate,
to invade a field that could
perhaps give tomorrow a democratic and socialist society.
The young man who is the offspring of a poor family must now have a great will to be educated.
We are returning to the dark ages of lack of meaningful education and exploitation.
If the universities are not of a high standard, an effort should be made to increase this, but by keeping them state-run.
Private universities require some high annual tuition fees usually ranging from €10,000/year to €40,000/year,
to which, when food and accommodation costs are added, a young person's studies can average €50,000/year.
The argument that the money of private universities will remain in Greece instead of being used for private studies abroad is vicious,
because those who have the ability to establish private universities today are the economic establishment of the post-independence period,
the owners of the mass media who, as E.K. has denounced, have been evading taxes for many years and exporting most of their profits abroad.
No to private universities
We are against the establishment of private universities at this stage
and until the university as a public institution is freed from the suffocating party control.
The fact that in private universities every student has to pay high tuition fees is hidden from the people.
This cost is multiplied if a family has more than one student.
The result, therefore, with the current economic situation of wages in Greece will be that education will become the privilege of the few who have money,
whereas education should be a good that will be enjoyed by all the Greek people and not only by the oligarchy and the plutocracy.
Moreover, when there is a party mentality in an organisation, it cannot stand the competition with private individuals with the cunning
and greed of private individuals, i.e. if Vardinoyannis or Kokkalis makes a university, he will not let Metsovio, Kapodistrian University or Aristotle University operate.
The university professors under the pressure of the financial lure will leave the state universities and thus the state universities will wither away
, just as the E.R.T. with its 4,000 employees
and zero audience and, on top of that, it was the incense burner of the government of the day and not an organ of information and information of the Greek people and an unattached, uninhibited independent voice as it should have been.
The modern carcinoma of today's Greece is the ten families of big publishers.
They have contributed to the destruction of Greece, they have bought everything, they have shares everywhere, they control and manipulate our people through the channels, they
run governments, they finance parties and they remain untouched by the law.
So it is not possible to accept to hand over free public education to people with a dubious past and present.
The EC proposal on Education
The Centrist Union believes that the field of education at all levels needs a radical reform,
reform to increase educational opportunities and raise the level of education of young people.
First of all, of course, the public and free character of education must be further enshrined, and
the gap in student places must be filled by new state universities to be established and operate on an equal footing with the existing ones.
If the universities are not of a high standard, an effort should be made to increase this, but by keeping them state-run.
because the state operates with a partisan mentality, with reckless and scandalous expenditure and an unjustified immobility.
Such a state, whose structure and operation the Centre Union fundamentally disagrees with, cannot protect university institutions from potential competition with private institutions.
We believe in healthy competition between the public and private sectors but in fact competition would not be healthy at all.
It would simply be an abrogation of free education and an unconditional surrender of education to the predatory tendencies of known and unknown centres of power.
The view of some that private universities could not be for-profit is a fraud and a trap because if anything makes the private sector agile it is profit;
since medium scale ownership would complicate the already complex problems of education.
Therefore, the expressed view for the establishment of non-state non-profit institutions is unfounded
since in our country there is no organization and institution that is non-state and non-profit which will be viable
and therefore in order to survive it will turn and ask for the support of the state or a private person.
Consultation with the academic community and society
In a meeting of academics with the president of the N.C. it was agreed that education, health, housing, employment are top social sectors in which any idea of private initiative must be fully controlled.
Private initiative is natural, but it is one thing if it is about commerce or industry
and another if it is about initiative in relation to fundamental social and human needs,
needs in the face of which the citizen is weak and needs the guarantee of the state.
Stopping the brain drain and attracting foreigners
Another major issue is the gradual absorption of young people studying abroad by Greek universities.
The establishment of new state universities will be the bridge to their gradual absorption.
Further, in our universities we need to increase the interest of foreign students to study.
Today the participation rate of foreigners in higher education is insignificant.
In countries such as Germany, Austria, Italy, it exceeds 30% or in other countries 50%.
A successful educational reform is one that will have a high participation rate of foreigners in higher education.
Control of "colleges" The
control of private I.E.C.'s and all private schools is the duty of the state.
Today, I.E.K. owners are presented who have not finished university.
All of them are advertised on TV and in newspapers, without the prosecutors being moved.
The lack of control demoralizes them.
The victims of this insolence are young people who are hungry for education and are excluded due to the limited number of study places throughout education.
University asylumMany places exploit the asylum, even illegal acts are carried out under its cover,
but all these, which it is up to society to identify and deal with,
do not negate the sanctity of the institution and the
need for its protection by every democratic citizen.
The Centre Union is against its abolition but at the same time guarantees its substantial reform.
Universities are by definition a space for the expression and development of ideas, regardless of any legal framework.
The Centrist Union calls on the democratic people to defend all the threatened values of democracy.
Anomaly and fascism do not come unbidden,
some prepare the ground, events are natural that there are many who prepare the ground for their coming.
The Union of Centrists proposes: 'Establishment of university security (and not a police force appointed by the Ministry of Public Order), an institution that exists in every favoured country.
University Security will be responsible for the control of those entering and leaving the university premises.
Visitors, staff and students will be required to show the relevant identification to enter the premises of the institution.
The police will be called upon to intervene in cases of criminal acts and will be sanctioned accordingly.
The EU's vision for education
The Centrist Union calls on all the people to unite,
Calls on those who are progressive to stop being caught in the traps of political impostors
and to come forward without egoisms or conditions to build a truly socialist and democratic party, for the good and upgrading of education.
Establishment of a University in every county,
so that thousands of our young people do not leave for abroad
but also to have the infrastructure to host foreign students.
Provide free education for native students and allow all high school graduates to enroll in all of them without exams.
All young people enrolled in universities will receive a pre-diploma after two years of study and examinations to determine whether to continue on to their final degree will take place between the second and third year of study.
In this way, the specialisation of our young people is increased and paralysis is eliminated.
the study time of all students is extended
improve our education system as a whole
effectively negates any idea of establishing private universities
that would demand prohibitive tuition fees for lower-middle income families.
Parties in Education The Union of Centrists calls for the effective abolition by law of all public party expression in universities.
Pensions - Insurance.17/04/2014 @ 23:39 THE CENTRAL UNION stands for sacrifices to the haves and have-nots in order for the rest of the world to live.
Large pensions, i.e. those that exceed €2,000 per month, should be reduced by a certain percentage.
Some deny this measure on the grounds that the insured have paid contributions and the system is contributory,
but the reduction according to our programme will be through an increase in taxation on amounts above €2,000 per month
and until the new planned growth creates the conditions for the withdrawal of this taxation.
The CENTRAL UNION does not clash with the haves, but calls on them to participate in the programme for the relief of the weaker classes.
Reduction of large pensions, so that there is no pension in our country below 800€ per month.
Retirement of uninsured people with a pension of €800 per month after the age of 60.
Prohibition of a second pension and more when the main pension is more than €1,000 per month.
Ban on pensioners from working when their monthly pension exceeds 1,000 €
Governance - Public Administration.17/04/2014 @ 23:16 It is often said that the Union of Centrists is the enemy of all public servants.
It is a report that is not true.
We have not spoken out against all public servants.
Let us make a proper distinction: public servants include teachers, police officers, nurses and the highly informed and helpful employees of the CCP.
Civil servants, but in the wider sector, are also employees of the country's municipalities,
staff of ministries
and employees of services such as the Drainage Agency of Kopais.
But public servants are also employees of the Parliament, the vast majority of them relatives of MPs and employees of the Ministry of Finance who enjoy special privileges (for example: the DIBET allowance)
at the expense of other colleagues in ministries without special privileges.
Reduction of the cost of running the state.Reduction of salaries and abolition of pensions of elected leaders, i.e. MPs, ministers, prime ministers, the President
and those who have previously held these positions, respectively.
Abolition of public sector pensions for those under 65, excluding pensions for health reasons.
Abolition of imputed (virtually non-existent) income.
A ban on double and multiple pensioners and a ban on the same person receiving more than one pension.
Reduction of the number of advisers to ministers and the return of seconded and temporary employees in ministries, parties and MPs to the services to which they belong.
Today these are estimated at around 12,000 people.
Reduction of public sector operating costs through the integration and use of Free/Open Source Software in government information systems.
Application of the "Behind-the-Back" principleSubstantial application of the "Behind-the-Back" principle to blatant cases of enrichment of politicians, public employees and officials, people in private life.
Thorough and continuous control of the income and assets of elected officials in the public and wider public sector and the application of the "Behind-the-Back" system in any case of suspected illegal enrichment.
The control exercised by the institutions of the state over the operation of the private sector must in any case be based on objective and objective criteria.
Transactions by members of the administration with persons and companies must be excluded in every way. The financial affairs of
public officials, all those involved in public works and public procurement, the most blatant cases of enrichment, journalists, members of parliament and judges must be subjected to thorough scrutiny
and the property of the most reprehensible cases must be confiscated retroactively.
Measures to deepen democracyBanning the same person from being elected prime minister for more than 2 terms.
The maximum time a person can remain a member of parliament is 12 years.
Prohibition of entry to the Parliament in a position of employment, for first and second degree relatives of a sitting Member of Parliament.
Establishment of non-parliamentary personalities as members of the Council of Ministers and the restriction of MPs to their legislative duties.
In this place, the deputies are uninhibited in their legislative work, and the ministers cease to be vote-getters and exercise their duties with all diligence.
Only five ministers can be MPs at the same time.
No important decision regarding the country's foreign policy should be taken without prior information of the Parliament and the parties.
Establishment of bipartisan councils for foreign policy, education, defence, public administration.
The decisions of these councils must be binding on ministers and government.
Upgrading the Parliament by changing the Parliament's rules of procedure,
providing high-level officials as assistants to Members of Parliament, language seminars.
Establishment of a national emergency body to oversee the major issue of social defence and protection against earthquakes, floods, fires, ecological disasters, water scarcity, energy shortages and others.
Each Member of Parliament may be absent without justification from meetings of the Parliament only twice a month.
Any absence to have financial penalties on his parliamentary salary.
Criminalisation of bribery and automatic lifting of the immunity of MPs for interference in appointments, procurement, loans, public works contracts, etc.
Electoral system and coalition governmentsEstablishment of the Simple Conversion as a permanent electoral system and coverage by law so that no one can abolish it in the future.
Moderation and logic are the main pillars of our philosophy, we believe that Greece will move forward with coalition governments, not self-reliance.
Simple proportional representation is the top demand of all democratic people and the ultimate goal of all progressive parties.
The introduction of simple proportional representation leads to governments of party cooperation, to
coalitions of governments, which, on the basis of consensus and ideological and programmatic convergence,
build social and political stability, transparency of popular participation and, in general, a state without extremes and aphorisms.
A prime minister who becomes prime minister with an independent government, it is very difficult to give up powers by introducing a simple proportional representation.
Indeed, simple proportional representation means the granting of power, it means co-management.
Who today, when he has all the powers in his hands, invites others as partners?
Of course no one, which is why so many years have passed since 1974 and simple proportional representation remains a demand, a
popular demand that needs sacrifices and struggles to be implemented.
By imposing the introduction of proportional representation for all kinds of electoral processes and the principle of majority will be the criterion for the expression of popular sovereignty.
CENTRAL UNION reminds our people that:Cyprus was betrayed by a self-reliant government, with the Zurich and London agreements.
With an independent government, Ocalan was handed over to the Turks.
Self-reliant governments created armies of low-paid civil servants.
With independent governments, concessions were made in Greek-Turkish relations.
With autocratic governments, the gap in inequalities in wages and pensions has been so brutally widened that the few are prospering and the many are starving.
With self-reliant governments, our country has come to have a huge foreign debt.
Cuts and spending cuts Although the PC agrees with cuts in the public sector, this does not mean that it agrees with cuts in the weakest strata.
We are against cuts for salaries up to €1,200 and up to €1,800 if possible. But the necessary cuts to be made include:
1. Abolition of fundingElimination of state funding of parties.
Instead of giving the parties money, they should be given supplies and services to help them function.
In this context, each mayor will provide space for the offices of all the parties that are candidates in the elections,
the Post Office will distribute the same number of forms for all parties,
posters will only be collected by municipalities in special boxes,
free newspaper space for parties
and free time on channels and generally giving the parties free time on a reasonable and equal basis.
Abolition of the parliamentary, ministerial, prime ministerial pensions and other privileges of the current holders of these positions and of those who held these positions in the past.
2. Salary cutsReduction of the salary of the President of the Republic by half.
Halving the salary of the Prime Minister and Ministers.
Halving the salary of MPs.
Reduction of the salary of the Metropolitans by half.
Reduction of the salary of the Regional Governors and Mayors by half.
3. DismissalsDismissal of idle wages from the public sector.
Dismissal of surplus public sector staff with incentives to recruit in the private sector.
Dismissal of Parliament staff related to current and former Members of Parliament.
4. Reorganization of the public sectorReduction of the public sector, increase of the efficiency of the sleeping state apparatus, reduction of bureaucracy and implementation of meritocracy at all levels of the state.
Abolition of polytheism.
Seconded or seconded officials should return immediately to the services to which they belong.
Appointments in the public and private sector on a fair first-come, first-served basis through job desks in each municipality or groups of small communities.
All recruitment in both the public and private sectors will be carried out in these offices.
With objective and impartial criteria and a relevant law, any attempt to mediate between parties and members of parliament will be eliminated.
Recruitment at the Parliament of new officials only through the APS
Abolition of public sector pensions for those under 65,
excluding pensions for health reasons.
Cuts and benefits The CC identifies the problem of public sector spending in high wages and the gap between these and private sector wages.
Wages in the public sector even after the cuts imposed by the Memorandum governments are 40-50% higher than those in the private sector.
The two main proposals of the CC are:Reduction of public sector wages by 30% or
reduction of public sector staff by 30%
We believe that the parochialism of government or opposition political forces that oppose the necessary cuts is irresponsible.
Journalists and political peddlers have not realized that the country is bankrupt and they are constantly opposing the cuts in the absurd benefits
handed out by the viciousness of the post-independence governments.
The whole edifice of the subsidy policy of the last 40 years was based on borrowed money,
EU money which was not invested but was used for buffers.
The ECB may be unpleasant in the short term,
but the policy it will follow as long as the people decide to bring it up will not be the one of parochialism that
led to the current situation and the risk of a total loss of savings and wages.
Role of MPs The role of the MP is not linked to the number of questions he or she puts to parliament on various issues.
This may well be done by his office staff.
The CoR believes that parliamentary questions should have substance and depth and should not be done for the sake of sensationalism.
The constant appearance of MPs on television is provocative to the Greek people given the salary of MPs and the funding of political parties.
Bipartisanship02/04/2014 @ 22:19Bribery and buffoonery are so deeply rooted in the consciousness of our people that some,
perhaps most, are blinded and unable to land in the new reality.
Our people are indeed divided. What to believe in first?
The dilemma that arises for our people is this: will there really be coalition governments
whenever the two major parties lose their monopoly of power or, despite what the polls show, will the people at the last moment vote for two parties again, maintaining the same vicious and sinful political situation?
Of course, this dilemma is false since everyone knows that the two parties are worn out, have
lost their old glamour and power and the crisis within them is evidence of their panic.
The dilemma is greater for the main body of PASOK and New Democracy supporters who do not want to believe that they will lose their privileges
and will be forced to operate with equality and order.
So far they have managed by force to create swarms of voters, to fanaticise the people, to drive them to the polls with empathy and recklessness;
the party mandarins have benefited and the vast majority have felt out of wedlock.
The two-party system, which for so long the CENTRAL UNION had denounced as a corrupt and rotten system, was based for so many decades in our country on the extraction of the vote by force, money, promises and fraud.
In fact, in order to achieve the hijacking of the vote, PASOK and New Democracy spent billions of drachmas and Euros, most of which were of sinful origin:
kickbacks, bribes, blackmail, protection, buying off journalists, submitting to every immoral claim of the corrupt, and
conveying even to ordinary citizens the feeling of erosion, venality, lack of moral values.
The CENTRAL UNION reminds our people that it was under an autocratic government that Cyprus was betrayed by the Zurich and London agreements, it
was under an autocratic government that Ocalan was handed over to the Turks, it
self-reliant governments created armies of low-paid civil servants,
autocratic governments that concessions were made in the Greek-Turkish conflict; it
was under autocratic governments that the gap in inequalities in wages and pensions was so brutally widened that the
few prospered and the many starved; it
was under autocratic governments that our country's foreign debt reached astronomical amounts today.
As long as the two-party system lasted in our country, right-wing and Pasokian crimes were being set off against each other,
there was a mutual amnesty of betrayals, of minorities, of scandals, and thus the two parties supported each other,
PASOK and New Democracy were plundering the country under the gaze and guilty silence of journalists, newspapers and channels.
Only the CENTROS UNION cried out from the very first moment about the unacceptable situation that existed in Greece.
Only Vassilis Leventis denounced both PASOK and New Democracy for deceiving the voters
and for their complete subordination to corrupt publishers and of course to the foreign agent.
If the CENTRAL UNION was persecuted so cowardly and insidiously, it is because it shouted that both PASOK and New Democracy are essentially one party, the party of the employees and puppets of the corrupt bosses.
For decades there has been no popular sovereignty in our country,
there are five or six families who drink the blood of the people and use parliament and government as blind pawns, like a vile form of Filipino.
This courage of the CENTRAL UNION has cost it dearly.
Suffice it to remind you that Vassilis Leventis has been invited to ANTENNA only once in 1994 for the show with Panos Panagiotopoulos and never since then.
Also, Vassilis Leventis was hosted once by Kostas Hardavella on MEGA CHANEL, in 1991 and never since then.
and then the method of deliberately ignoring and displacing Vassilis Leventis from the public eye was adopted by bosses and journalists.
Think, then, of the adverse conditions under which the CENTRAL UNION operated for many years.
No newspaper carried our announcements, no television hosted Vassilis Leventis or even any other party member.
The CENTRAL UNION was founded and exists for the sake of morality and justice.
We are addressing the thinking and the rational.
The votes in the CENTRAL UNION reflect moderation and reason in our country.
Also, the benefits to PASOK and New Democracy and the other parties of huge sums, allows these parties to pay newspapers and channels, not only for their own promotion,
but also for the elimination and exclusion from the media of the CENTROS UNION.
With the implementation of our programme, the paper war will stop, democracy will work.
The new Greece must stand firmly on its feet, carcinomas of all kinds, hotbeds of corruption, straw-man captains and groups that infiltrate all sectors through illegal means must be identified and dealt with.
The burdens of the state will be borne by all Greeks according to their strength.
The sport of evasion, of evasion, the loopholes for avoiding burdens and responsibilities are finally closed by the UNITY OF CENTROS.
The culprits and those responsible for the stagnation to date will be identified, punished...
Simple proportional representation is the top demand of all democratic people and the ultimate goal of all progressive parties.
The introduction of simple proportional representation leads to governments of party cooperation, to coalitions of governments,
which, on the basis of consensus and ideological and programmatic convergence, build social and political stability, transparency of popular participation and, in general, a state without extremes and aphorisms.
Power is sweet and being omnipotent and uncontrollable in power is also a challenge.
A prime minister who becomes prime minister with an independent government, it is very difficult to give up powers by introducing a simple proportional representation.
Who today, when he has all the powers in his hands, invites others as partners?
Certainly no one, which is why so many years have passed since 1974 and simple proportional representation remains a demand, a popular demand that needs sacrifices and struggles to be implemented.
By imposing the introduction of proportional representation for all kinds of electoral processes and the principle of majority will be the criterion for the expression of popular sovereignty.
Any party advocating enhanced or any similar alchemy will be excluded from any idea of cooperation with the CENTRAL UNION.
In this context, and as long as the parliamentary parties adopt enhanced proportional representation,
we will consider them to be parties with fascist principles and parties of usurpation of power.
