Government Programme Framework: summary presentation October 2009 - citizens first
october 2009
In a period of rapid change, when Greece is facing a multifaceted political, economic and social crisis, with a sense of responsibility and a firm compass of our principles, we highlight our Vision for the future.
We are inspired by and believe in our timeless values.
Peace, democracy, freedom, democracy, freedom, popular sovereignty and equality, solidarity and social liberation.
PASOK's overriding goal is a humane society that at the same time ensures economic growth,
social justice
and environmental protection.
We are committed to facing the great challenges of our time, ensuring to every Greek citizen better living and creative conditions in a Society of Security, Development and Solidarity.
The ideology that progress and prosperity are ensured by the self-regulation of the market, the domination of the market over politics, the limitation and weakening of the supervisory, developmental and social role of the State collapsed under the weight of the economic and social deadlocks, the great inequalities and the generalised crisis it caused.
The New Democracy government of the last six years has turned the country backwards, led us to an economic and social crisis before the international crisis, left citizens unprotected, society unprotected and the economy in a deadlock.
It is time to put an end to the general decline of the last six years.
The time has come to set Greece on a new path of progress and creation.
Piecemeal measures are not enough.
We need a comprehensive plan, a plan of National Revival that sets goals, gives vision and immediate solutions to the whole spectrum of the citizen's daily life.
We are immediately implementing a 100-day plan to support the market, to support the
middle and low incomes, to
limit state waste.
Our aim is to breathe life into the economy
and to achieve a fair social redistribution.
This will create the basis for the next necessary step: green growth, with a radical change in the way we produce wealth.
We are implementing immediate measures to shield the autonomy of politics and transparency in the way the money, every euro of the Greek citizen is spent.
This will build the foundations for the necessary change of mindset in the state and in all its officials.
For a state that serves the citizen, with quality services, safeguarding their rights and the public interest.
The Greece we envision keeps pace with and exploits international progressive trends, responds to the problems of the current situation, invests and anticipates future developments.
With our Programme we set six major national objectives:
Recovery of the Economy.
Green Growth.
A social state that offers quality services while guaranteeing the rights of the citizen.
Investing in Education
and Culture.
Political System and State at the service of the citizen.
A strong voice and position of Greece in Europe and the world
- Fight for a Democratic and Social Europe.
Today we commit and promote a new Development, Social and Environmental Deal with the citizens.
The recovery of the economy, the new green growth perspective and the safeguarding of social justice require the active participation of citizens and social actors in the design and implementation of policies and in the evaluation of their results.
They presuppose, above all, a change in the way the State is governed, structured and operated,
substantial decentralisation, the
strengthening of the role of local government
and the democratisation of the development process.
They require the building of citizens' trust in institutions, the
continuous evaluation of structures and functions that serve the public interest,
transparency in decision-making and policy implementation, as well as
social accountability of any form of authority that manages public money.
With our programme, the priorities we set and the commitments we make, we express a new progressive social alliance for real change centred on people, their needs and their well-being.
PASOK is a party of democracy
and socialism.
Patriotic party,
with universal values.
This is our identity - this is our guide.
Today, PASOK is ready to take back the responsibility of governing.
We believe deeply in the strengths of this place.
We are ready and determined.
We have the plan and the knowledge.
We know the problems and propose fair and feasible solutions that serve the citizen, not petty or powerful interests of a few.
We have the courage and the determination to break down the established attitudes, mindsets and perceptions that keep our country stuck.
Today, we need again the broadest possible unity of all the forces of creation, production and labour.
All those who are hurting this land, the people of labour, the workers, the farmers, the scientists, the professionals, the new generation of our country.
Today, with our Programme, we are committed to every Greek, every Greek woman.
Now is the time to move forward.
The vote for PASOK on 4 October will pave the way for Democratic and Social Change.
Together we can, and together we will succeed.
1. FOR A NEW ECONOMY OF GROWTH, STABILITY AND SOCIAL COHESION
COMING
For PASOK, the first priority is to tackle the economic crisis and restore the development process to an upward trajectory.
The strategic goal of our economic policy is to get the country out of the crisis
and to lay the foundations for the major changes that will put Greece back on a path of growth, stability and social cohesion.
1.1.THE FIRST STEP: ECONOMIC RECOVERY - MARKET REVIEW
We are committed to putting in place in the first 100 days, an exit plan from the crisis that directly addresses the big problems and lays the foundations for big changes.
Income support.
With above-inflation increases.
Emergency solidarity allowance.
Borrower protection measures.
Freezing of utility tariffs for one year.
Strengthening economic activity.
By increasing public investment to 4% of GDP from the first budget and accelerating the NSRF.
Injecting liquidity into the market.
Change of TIRESIA.
Improving the business environment.
Protecting and strengthening employment and supporting the unemployed.
Streamlining public finances by fighting waste
and boosting tax revenues.
SUPPORTING THE FAMILY BUDGET AND THE PURCHASING POWER OF HOUSEHOLDS
Wage and pension increases above inflation.
Changing tax policy to act as a redistributive tool.
Reducing the tax burden for the benefit of the low and middle classes.
No new tax burden on middle and low incomes.
We recommend:
Implementation of a single, progressive, indexed tax scale for all incomes.
Farmers will continue to be taxed as they are today.
Interest will be taxed separately as it is today.
Abolition of the RTD and progressive taxation of large real estate with a reform of the tax-free threshold, in order to remove injustices for small owners and to tax truly large real estate.
Neither does it exclude church property that is used economically.
Reintroduction of inheritance and parental benefit tax with a high tax-free threshold, aimed at taxing large estates.
Taxation of distributed profits to individuals, i.e. dividends, on the basis of the scale for individuals.
By deducting from the tax the amount withheld from the company as profit tax, in order to exclude double income taxation.
Low-rate taxation of the undistributed profits of legal persons and partnerships, with the aim of increasing investment,
modernising businesses
and increasing employment.
Taxation of capital gains realised from short-term stock exchange transactions with the possibility of offsetting losses.
Fighting against price gouging, starting the battle against small and large cartels that force consumers to pay higher prices at the shelf.
By strengthening and upgrading the Competition Commission,
effective supervision and control of the market for the distribution and sale of agricultural products,
freezing the tariffs of public utilities for one year, and
supporting the consumer movement and consumer organisations.
Targeted income support to vulnerable groups of the population affected by the crisis, with the granting of the emergency solidarity allowance for the most vulnerable groups,
and an increase in the VAT refund to farmers.
Protecting consumers from abusive banking practices and overcharging.
With the priority vote in Parliament on the proposals we have tabled for the elimination of unfair and abusive practices by banks
and for the possibility of regulation and gradual debt relief for those over-indebted consumers who are demonstrably unable to repay their debts based on their income and assets.
We are putting an end to unfair charges, to auctions of property at degrading prices.
We are relieving thousands of households from over-indebtedness.
STRENGTHENING SMALL BUSINESS AND INJECTING LIQUIDITY INTO THE REAL ECONOMY
To restore liquidity to the real economy
and support businesses affected by the credit squeeze, we propose:
Removal of all disincentives and difficulties identified in the implementation of the programmes announced by TEMPME to support small and medium enterprises.
Priority to sectors most affected, extension of the programme to cover more businesses,
including in the agricultural sector. "
Freezing of loan obligations for one year
and possibility to refinance overdue debts for companies that are particularly affected by the current economic situation and have problems in repaying debts.
Suspension for one year of payment of the 0.6% contribution under Law 128/75.
Utilisation of the 15 billion guarantee component of the 28 billion liquidity programme, which is frozen, to finance directly companies in difficulty, in a transparent and objective manner.
Gradually reduce the post-dating limit for new cheques and overhaul this practice altogether.
Reformulation of the terms and conditions of membership in Tiresias in order to reduce the length of time for unfavourable entries, lengthening of the time for announcing cheques, review of the issue of criminal liability in relation to the amount of cheques.
WE SUPPORT THE LABOUR MARKET AND THE UNEMPLOYED
We propose concrete measures:
Immediate strengthening of the Labour Inspectorate so that the eight-hour working day, overtime, regular leave and the implementation of collective agreements are monitored and enforced.
Unemployment benefit phased in at 70% of the basic wage.
A radical overhaul of the hiring of workers, which has become a social scourge.
Special clauses to ensure that loans guaranteed by the State are channelled directly to companies that maintain or increase existing jobs.
No to speculative deposits.
Specific regulations to stop the pretence of exploiting the crisis to reduce employment and make up for the maximum possible income of workers.
Re-linking the incentives of the investment law with job creation.
Incentives to recruit young people with a 4-year insurance contribution subsidy scheme.
The partisan blackmail of STAGE and other civil service positions are abolished.
Social Work programmes are promoted on the basis of real needs, transparency and social criteria.
1.2. THE NEXT STEP: A NEW DEVELOPMENT MODEL BASED ON GREEN GROWTH
EXPLOITING THE COUNTRY'S COMPARATIVE ADVANTAGES - THE REGION IN FOCUS
The change of our country's development model for a new economy based on Green Growth
and clear development targeting are fundamental prerequisites for addressing the chronic structural problems and shortcomings of the Greek economy, as well as for overcoming the current crisis.
PASOK's development strategy focuses on promoting the necessary productive restructuring,
as well as a new energy and environmental planning with emphasis on Renewable Energy Sources (RES)
and the development of the environmental industry,
energy saving,
reducing dependence on oil,
increasing the efficiency of energy networks,
improving the energy efficiency of buildings,
ensuring energy sufficiency
and tackling energy poverty.
The spearhead of our development strategy, the Region.
Our goal: dynamic regions that invest in quality, so that each region can acquire its own strong and distinct identity, to be a leader in its own field, depending on its comparative advantages, geographical location, local human and material resources, cultural and natural heritage.
In this context, we are strengthening regional and local consultation and participation mechanisms, involving local communities, so that choices are shaped and decided by the citizens concerned and their collective representative bodies.
The new growth strategy will be put into practice through the full and coordinated activation of all development instruments,
notably through the targeted reform of the NSRF 2007-2013
and the building of a more functional and efficient Public Administration.
To achieve the new growth strategy, we propose:
Increase Public Investment to 4% of GDP from the first budget with a target of 5% over four years.
Targeted reform and accelerated implementation of the NSRF 2007-2013, in line with the general direction of our new development model.
Measures to strengthen the regional dimension of the NSRF 2007-2013, abolition of centralised and bureaucratic provisions for its implementation.
Creation of an Economic Refinancing Fund that will enable the government to inject liquidity directly into the market and raise funds to finance specific sectors through the issuance of special bonds.
PROMOTING THE ENTREPRENEURSHIP OF TOMORROW
A key priority of our economic policy is to improve the competitiveness and extroversion of the Greek economy through the promotion of innovative-green entrepreneurship.
A constant aim of our policy is to maintain and strengthen the growth role of small and medium-sized enterprises, which are the backbone of the Greek economy.
A key prerequisite for supporting healthy entrepreneurship and actively attracting investment is the creation of an overall favourable regulatory framework for entrepreneurship, with a comprehensive framework for improving incentives and removing disincentives.
Important elements of our policy to remove disincentives include:
Drastic measures to reduce bureaucracy and uncertainty with a stable tax framework, a
reliable and effective control system,
reduction of red tape and simplification of administrative procedures, as well as
the opening of closed professions after a meaningful dialogue and respect for social rights.
Creating a multi-functional one-stop service, providing integrated services.
All administrative procedures for the establishment, licensing and operation of businesses are drastically simplified.
We aim to be able to set up a business even on the same day, in cooperation with the Chambers.
Establishing tax incentives for research - innovation
but also disincentives for polluting activities and greenhouse gas emissions.
A five-year tax-free period for small businesses for young people.
Establish stricter rules on the siting and operation of large shopping centres
Measures and controls to tackle street trading.
In addition to the incentives for investment that will be introduced by changing the tax regime for undistributed profits of companies,
the Investment Law will be reformed to be a tool for targeted channelling of resources to support competitiveness,
economic decentralisation,
job creation and preservation,
productive restructuring
and Green Growth.
USING PUBLIC WORKS AS A TOOL FOR DEVELOPMENT
Infrastructure development and public works are a key prerequisite for sustainable green growth
and particularly for regional development.
They boost the productivity and the extroversion of the country and the economy.
We are creating a Ministry of Infrastructure in which public works and transport will be merged.
Our policy aims at:
The objectification of the system of awarding studies and projects, which will guarantee the public interest, transparency, healthy competition and simplification of procedures.
Improving the public works production system to ensure that projects are completed within budget, on time and with quality assurance.
Upgrading the environment,
improving the aesthetics of cities
and the quality of life of citizens.
The exploitation and strengthening of the country's scientific and technical potential for the benefit of the national economy and employment.
Priorities for the upgrading and improvement of our country's public works production system are:
Improvement and simplification of administrative procedures in order to speed up the time for awarding projects and studies.
Establishment of a periodic planning of public works, with planning in the flow of resources, control and regular presentation of their development, so that the citizen can judge the effectiveness and reliability of the announcements.
Support for small and medium-sized public projects necessary for regional development.
To ensure social benefit and lower costs, the orientation of PPPs will be changed, so that they do not act as an alibi for reducing Public Investment and as a mechanism for generating unaffordable borrowing.
This means substantial risk-sharing with the private sector and a limited selection of projects, with the benefit to society as a whole documented compared to the conventional way of implementing projects.
1.3. THE SINE QUA NON: TIDYING UP PUBLIC FINANCES - COMBATING TAX EVASION
A prerequisite for the recovery of the Greek economy is the implementation of a new, bold and credible framework for fiscal management, both on the revenue and expenditure side.
To this end, we are creating an autonomous Ministry of Finance, responsible for fiscal policy.
Fiscal consolidation is a priority because it frees up resources to finance our development and social objectives.
CHANGING THE TAX SYSTEM TO FIGHT TAX EVASION
We propose a simple and stable tax framework that guarantees fairness, efficiency, transparency and minimisation of the administrative burden.
Adoption of a modern model for the organisation and operation of the tax administration, based on international standards, operating with stable rules, computerised support, decentralised organisation, a simple and uniform audit procedure and administration based on agreed objectives.
With transparency and accountability.
Abolition of the Code of Books and Records.
Codification and simplification of tax legislation and drafting of a new single Code of all Tax Legislation and Procedure, which will be posted on the internet and continuously updated.
Implementation of an objective point system to identify and control high risk individuals or legal entities for tax evasion.
Immediate imposition of severe administrative sanctions in case of infringements.
Accounting determination of all income.
Effective control of all intra-group transactions.
Abolition of a series of gifted, clientelistic tax exemptions and regulations introduced by the New Democracy in the last 5 years.
Taxation of transactions with offshore companies located in tax havens, in order to make them unprofitable for both individuals and legal entities located in our country.
All business transactions and transactions with foreign companies through bank accounts.
Application of universal background checks to the audit.
Electronic monitoring of the fuel market to combat smuggling.
Interconnection of TAXIS/ICIS with the information systems of social security institutions and other services, in order to cross-check and exploit all available information to reduce tax and contribution evasion.
Obligation to maintain professional accounts in banks, interface with the information systems of the Ministry of Finance and access by the tax services.
Abolition of all unnecessary certificates, with the introduction of the declaration and the statement as the only certificates.
Serving citizens from other locations outside the D.O.Y. and from a workplace within the D.O.Y.
DRASTICALLY REDUCING WASTE IN THE PUBLIC SECTOR
We propose a specific process of rationalisation, reallocation and control of public spending to end waste.
Transformation of the State Budget into an effective "Programme Budget" in the form of three-year contracts.
By clearly setting out operational programmes and measurable objectives and monitoring and evaluating quantitative and qualitative results.
Drastically curbing waste and current consumption expenditure in the public sector,
with targeted reallocation of expenditure to public investment,
education,
research,
health
and social security.
The National Statistical Service of Greece (NSSG) acquires an Independent Function with high scientific and technological support and its administration is approved by the Parliament.
Effective management of public assets by recording and utilising them, as well as accountability for their results.
Adopt a Code of Fiscal Discipline and Stability to be applied by all general government agencies.
Enhancing the role of Parliament in the process of tabling and debating the Annual Budget, the "Report" and the "Audit Report".
Adopt a modern financial management control system to eliminate the current fragmentation and overlapping responsibilities.
Ensuring the effective institutional independence of the Court of Audit and establishing internal audit mechanisms and common, internationally accepted audit standards in every Ministry, NPAs and OTAs and public organisations.
Implement a double-entry accounting system everywhere, throughout the public sector, NPIs, public bodies and local authorities, and prepare annual financial statements.
Redesigning government procurement to make it a development tool and a key driver of green growth.
Establish transparent and clear procedures to avoid overcharging.
Prioritise the most sensitive sectors where there is a problem, such as hospitals.
1.4. THE OBLIGATION OF EVERY MODERN STATE: REGULATING AND CONTROLLING MARKETS FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE CITIZEN, SAFEGUARDING PUBLIC SOCIAL GOODS
ENSURING HEALTHY COMPETITION AGAINST CARTELS
For PASOK, the proper functioning of markets requires rules, effective regulation and supervision by the state,
promoting healthy and fair competition,
but without infringing on the basic rights of consumers, small investors, workers and borrowers, and
safeguarding public and social goods.
To improve and upgrade the competitive environment in the country:
Upgrade and strengthen the Competition Commission.
We are creating a specialised judicial body (the Special Court of Appeal for Competition Appeals) to hear appeals against decisions adopted by the Competition Commission.
We establish a special Antimonopoly Authority.
We are harmonising the legislative framework defining the competences of the Regulatory Authorities so that they operate without overlapping, confusion and conflict of competences.
EFFECTIVELY PROTECTING CONSUMERS AND RELIEVING OVER-INDEBTED HOUSEHOLDS
Strengthening the position of the consumer is a prerequisite for enhancing competition and the competitiveness of the economy.
A strong consumer movement supported by organised public intervention is an institutional counterweight to the unbridled speculative forces of the market,
and strengthens productive price and quality competition between firms.
Consumer protection policy is a priority of PASOK's economic and social policy.
Strict implementation of all production and distribution standards of the single European internal market for products and services.
Implement product safety and quality certification procedures at all stages from the production plant to the shelf and strengthen the legislative framework.
Ensuring the provision of universal service and recognising new rights for consumers where there is entry of private companies into utility markets where previously only public utilities operated.
Strengthening the Price Observatory, so that there is a transparent and objective system for monitoring prices in the market.
Effective protection for all those dealing with the wider Financial Sector.
Immediate and effective implementation of court rulings that condemn as illegal and abusive certain general terms of mass transactions between banks and consumers.
PASOK is committed to covering the existing gap in Greek legislation on consumer protection from over-indebtedness in a decisive and socially just manner.
In practice, debt adjustment means that we enable consumers who have a proven and permanent inability to repay their loans to be discharged from their debts by paying off a part of their debts based on their income from work, which is determined by the Court and cannot be less than 1% of the debts.
A prerequisite for this to happen is that there are no assets and the consumer's current income is insufficient to meet the loan obligations.
The debtor undertakes to pay part of his income to creditors every month for three to five years.
If he does not meet his obligations, there is no discharge of the debts.
The debtor's main residence is protected, as the debtor may request its exclusion from the property that is liquidated to satisfy creditors, provided that it does not exceed the tax-free acquisition limit for first homes provided for by the applicable provisions, plus 2%.
WE GUARANTEE A STABLE, DYNAMIC, REGULATED AND SUPERVISED FINANCIAL SYSTEM
For PASOK, the new architecture of the Financial System requires effective supervision and control of the money and capital markets, as well as
ensuring stability and healthy competition.
The main objective is for the Financial System to operate, with full transparency, as a lever for the financing and development of the Greek Economy, at the service of the citizen.
To limit the transmission of risks from the money and capital markets to the real economy and contribute to the protection of the productive and social fabric of the country.
To this end, we propose:
Independent, robust and effective supervision across the financial system.
No product and no area of the financial sector can operate without regulation and supervision.
Establish a body for the direct monitoring and supervision of systemically critical financial sector firms and institutions to prevent risks and limit the transmission of risks to the real economy.
Substantial activation of the Financial Stability Committee.
Supporting a strong and effective "public pillar" in the financial system, whose actions and services will ensure healthy competition,
protect consumers/borrowers and
support the real economy.
Activating the role that banks controlled by the Greek State can play.
Strengthening the liquidity of the stock market, by interconnecting the Athens Exchange with other markets, in order to become a strong regional centre of the wider Mediterranean region.
Ensuring easy access and equal treatment in the market for all businesses, investors and intermediaries.
Development of a high level of Corporate Governance for all listed companies.
WE PUT STRATEGIC ENTERPRISES AT THE SERVICE OF CITIZENS, GROWTH AND SOCIAL COHESION
We seek to make the European Internal Market work with rules and regulation,
that ensure healthy competition,
public and social goods,
consumer protection
and the environment,
social rights
and economic and social cohesion within the European Union.
In this context, a priority is the adoption of a European Legislative Framework for Public Utilities in the Internal Market
and the inclusion of a social progress clause in all European legislation.
PPOs are important tools for promoting the development of public goods, healthy competition and social cohesion for the benefit of the public interest, the economy and citizens.
PASOK's central objective is to give all citizens access to universal services and products of high quality, sufficient quantity and affordable prices through the public utilities.
Strategically important companies operating in networks and infrastructure will remain under the control of the Greek State in order to safeguard their social and developmental role.
Remaining under public control requires the adoption of modern rules and standards of corporate governance, the development of new activities that will create added value, the continuous upgrading of the production process and services that will make them competitive at international level.
2. GREEN GROWTH: EXPLOITING OUR COMPARATIVE ADVANTAGES, SHOWCASING OUR NATURAL WEALTH
Today, more than ever, we must adopt a new model of development for the country that serves people and their real needs.
"Green" development, that which respects the environment and treats it as a development asset and not as an anti-growth burden, is the only feasible and sustainable solution for the country.
Our proposals seek to reconstruct the productive base of our country,
balanced regional development and the
creation of new jobs.
All this cannot be done without investing in education, knowledge, innovation, new technologies.
We want to open up new opportunities from the agricultural sector to the tourism sector, new prospects in the manufacturing sector, in the construction sector, in the energy sector.
We should invest in our comparative advantages and especially in the natural environment of our country, in our cultural heritage, in the creativity of our people.
Green growth will improve Greece's competitive position, attract significant foreign investment and improve the quality of life for all.
It will generate new business possibilities and opportunities.
It will create a new and strong productive fabric that will open up fields of action for young scientists currently suffocating in a closed and anchored economic structure.
2.1. THREE MAJOR PRIORITIES
1st priority: Climate and energy.
We set a target to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 65% by 2050 with interim binding progress targets.
We must move immediately to a model based on Renewable Energy Sources (RES), on energy saving, on energy demand management.
2nd priority: The challenge of restructuring.
Changes in production and consumption systems.
Safety and quality in agricultural products.
In tourism, expanding and upgrading the services offered.
"Green business" -- a new opportunity with dynamic prospects that can create many quality jobs.
3rd priority: Economy in our natural resources and green infrastructure.
Water is a national issue and our policy should manage the demand for water rather than boosting its supply.
PASOK will address the issue of waste management as one of the central social and environmental problems.
"Green infrastructure": implementation of combined transport, strengthening mass transport for clean and environmentally friendly transport with reduced emissions.
2.2. CLIMATE AND ENERGY - NEW ENERGY STRATEGY
We ensure energy sufficiency,
we fight energy poverty, we
protect the environment.
Our fundamental commitment is the design and implementation of a long-term energy strategy for the gradual transition to the era of unconventional energy sources, with the central objectives of protecting the environment
and contributing as a priority to tackling climate change,
security of energy supply
and diversification of energy sources and routes
, and strengthening the competitiveness of our economy.
A key objective of an energy policy with a social dimension must also be to address the inequalities created by the phenomenon of energy poverty.
Saving and proper management of energy is the most important, ecologically optimal, domestic energy "deposit" of our country.
We want integrated and vertically integrated promotion of renewable energy equipment production and a significant contribution to the energy balance of our country.
PASOK is committed to 18% of energy coming from renewable energy sources by 2020 with a target of 20%.
Our motto is "RES everywhere", except in high protection areas.
By reducing bureaucracy and simplifying licensing procedures.
Immediate removal of all disincentives for small-scale renewable energy production and incentives for the production and consumption of renewable energy in homes.
Guarantee of the purchase price of electricity from small-medium RES producers.
Rationalisation of incentives and creation of a modern institutional framework with simplified procedures for broad participation of the local community in the implementation of RES.
Development of domestic technology and know-how -- Greece is the centre of developments for RES in Southeast Europe.
Creation of a "Soft Energy Fund", with the cooperation of PPC, the Greek banking system and investors, to promote the development of a national RES industry and their massive penetration in our energy balance.
We set a target of 50% national participation in the value added of equipment by 2020.
The energy consumption of buildings will be linked to incentives - disincentives.
Incentives for withdrawal only for the purchase of hybrid or particularly low-consumption state-of-the-art cars,
gradual replacement of public sector cars.
Incentives for co-production in the country's public buildings.
The priority is to replace old lignite plants with new high-efficiency lignite plants.
The country's energy mix cannot accommodate coal.
Nuclear energy is not an acceptable alternative for us.
New gas stations with priority in the southern part of the Interconnected Electricity Transmission System to maximise efficiency and upgrade the quality of supply to consumers.
PPC remains under public control, at least 51%.
It maintains and upgrades its leading role in the new conditions of the liberalised electricity market in Europe.
In the sector of Liquid Fuels, given the country's dependence on imported oil, the implementation of a policy of radical changes and conflicts with the cartels in the sector.
2.3. INVESTMENT IN RESEARCH AND NEW TECHNOLOGIES
Our goal is to bring total investment in research to 2% of GDP over four years by taking steps to create an innovation environment and a National Research Plan with:
Partnering with the productive sector in specific areas by mobilising the research capacities of universities and public research centres.
Supporting research on cutting-edge energy and renewable energy technologies, technologies to reduce energy consumption, forest and water resources management.
Promoting research in the field of public goods, such as health and nutrition, and more generally research for which the public administration is the recipient.
Empowerment and development of human research potential, with the aim of increasing the number of researchers, attracting researchers from the diaspora and recognising and rewarding the quality of the research work produced.
Developing cutting-edge research, based solely on excellence, with an emphasis on covering scientific areas that do not attract similar funding.
Rationalisation and functional integration of public research and technology centres and university research in the framework of a national strategic plan with social accountability and evaluation mechanisms.
2.4. AGRICULTURAL POLICY: THE FARMER AT THE CENTRE OF GREEN DEVELOPMENT - REGENERATION OF THE COUNTRYSIDE
OUR PRIORITIES FOR THE RURAL WORLD
PASOK, with green growth as a basic policy option and with confidence in the Greek farmer, in the future and the prospects of our rural economy, aims at the integrated development of the countryside, with the promotion and exploitation of all its economic, social, cultural and environmental advantages.
Safe certified and branded food with an integrated system of production, supply and marketing of agricultural products in international markets.
Reorientation of production choices,
support for environmentally friendly farming methods,
and certification of organic products and products with registered quality and designation of origin.
We are opposed to Genetically Modified Organisms.
Greek varieties of plants and animal breeds, adapted to Greek conditions, which do not require high consumption of natural resources and water, will be supported.
We choose as the main orientation of our country's agricultural sector the production of food,
the modernization of traditional crops, the
production of quality products with identity,
the development of complementary activities in the field of agri-tourism
and the interconnection of agricultural production with tourism.
Promoting the Mediterranean diet is a key national objective.
We are committed to:
The protection of agricultural income through continuous and effective negotiation in favour of the interests of Greek Farmers in the EU institutions and the P.O.E.
For PASOK, the priority is to negotiate and secure funding for the agricultural sector in the post-2013 era.
Increasing public investment in the agricultural sector by increasing resources for farm modernisation,
young farmers' programmes,
improving water storage and management infrastructure.
The intensification of market controls to radically tackle the importation of agricultural and livestock products and the crackdown on cartels.
Cooperative Organizations at the service of the farmer, which will be a tool and lever to support his income, inform and educate him.
Modernisation and reform of ELGA and the production insurance system to cover new risks due to climate change.
Determination of land use (agricultural land, grassland, pastures) through spatial planning and protection of agricultural land in the context of the country's broader spatial planning.
Modern social security system and social protection network in the countryside (rural health clinics, health centres, nurseries, open centres for the elderly, home help programmes).
Increase the basic pension for farmers and farmers' wives to €550 for individuals and €950 for couples.
Farmer support services - investing in knowledge.
We are committed to putting an end to the operational problems of the services and the agencies for the formulation and implementation of agricultural policy so that farmers are not burdened by bureaucracy, avoid financial costs and have the necessary scientific and technical support.
To open up prospects, especially for young people, who consciously choose the agricultural profession, seeking information, education, basic and lifelong training.
We believe in professional farmers and we give them professional protection.
We are setting up an Advisory Service System for farmers and fishermen.
Farmers need immediate measures to reduce production costs and support their income in order to get out of the crisis they have been driven into in recent years.
PASOK is committed:
For the effective regulation of the loans of farmers and stockbreeders.
To increase from 7% to 11% the VAT refund rate for farmers under the special scheme for all plant and animal products.
To increase the refund of the Special Oil Tax
To abolish the single property tax
To increase the subsidy for the transport costs of animal feed for disadvantaged and island regions.
To extend the Small and Micro Enterprises Guarantee Fund to the agricultural sector.
PASOK, aware of the crucial role of livestock farming for the development of the country, is committed to the consolidation of the meat and milk market
and the fight against illegal localisation,
reducing the cost of feed,
reducing the bureaucracy and the cost of permits for the modernisation of livestock holdings,
the timely payment of aid
and transparency in the distribution of national reserve rights,
better staffing of veterinary and support services,
promoting research in animal genetic improvement centres to improve domestic breeds,
improving working and living conditions to encourage farmers to continue their productive activity.
We want fishing in the Greek seas to become truly sustainable.
Proper implementation of European legislation is the first step.
The future of the Fisheries - Aquaculture sector is linked to clean, safe and biologically diverse seas.
The strategic objective of our policy is the conservation of the biodiversity of the Greek seas while meeting our food needs
and the adoption of fisheries management models that allow the conservation of resources, the sustainability of farms and the preservation of the social characteristics of coastal and island regions.
2.5. INVESTMENT IN TOURISM
UPGRADING THE QUALITY OF THE TOURISM PRODUCT
For PASOK, the upgrading of the tourism product and infrastructure is of utmost importance
, while supporting workers, their lifelong training and education, as well as
promoting sustainable development with emphasis on environmental protection.
Our strategic choice is the development of quality tourism that offers a variety of differentiated and targeted products.
Zero tolerance for encroachment and unauthorised construction in forest and protected areas.
Phasing out off-plan building with a specific timetable.
No more construction on the boundary lines.
PASOK will withdraw the Special Spatial Plan for Tourism.
The Development Law will also be adapted to the real needs of tourism.
In this context we are committed to:
Creating quality accommodation with a package of financial and other incentives.
Strengthening the accessibility potential of tourist sites, particularly in the Region, by developing and improving the necessary general infrastructure.
Abolition of financial incentives for the construction of accommodation in tourist-saturated areas.
Utilisation of the National Strategic Reference Framework (NSRF) 2007-2013 for the enhancement of quality tourism development.
Implementation of the EU proposals and guidelines "Towards a Europe accessible to tourists with disabilities".
Promoting the green economy with emphasis on the sustainable development of tourism entrepreneurship
Upgrading tourism education at all levels, and assessing the quality of studies based on international tourism standards.
Promotion, advertising and direct development of the tourist image of our country in the crucial field of the Internet.
Upgrading of the Greek National Tourism Organisation (EOT), so that it becomes an organisation for the promotion of Greece abroad.
2.6. PROTECTION AND CONSERVATION OF NATURAL RESOURCES - 'GREENING' INFRASTRUCTURE
WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT
The management of water resources is a national issue for Greece.
Immediate revision of water policy with review and proper implementation of a national water protection and management programme and addressing problems such as water scarcity and drought which are expected to increase due to climate change.
Objective:
Saving drinking water and implementing protection programmes for rivers and lakes.
We will apply water saving policies and techniques in the agricultural, tourism, industrial and urban sectors.
Desalination on the islands will be done with renewable energy sources.
Integrated programmes to restore surface waters and aquifers facing pollution problems.
Maintaining the public character and control of the management of EYDAP and EYATH by the public sector in order to safeguard their social and developmental role.
PROTECTED AREAS
The aim is for protected areas to become poles of local green development.
The key policy option should be protection and proper management.
The management of protected areas should be differentiated according to needs and size (with Management Bodies only concerning national parks) and in cooperation with local communities, and should result in their promotion and exploitation.
DASH
Forest policies are about protecting forests, but also about their development.
The aim is to reduce the area burned, to give
priority to protecting the most valuable terrestrial ecosystems or those that provide important services to society as a whole
, and to avoid loss of life and damage to property and infrastructure.
In particular:
Prevention
Immediate preparation of National and Regional Forest Fire Prevention Plans.
Use of modern technical means (e.g. satellite systems for locating forest fire outbreaks), mechanism for immediate notification of local forces.
Immediate completion of clean-ups in forest areas, biomass and garbage clean-ups in hazardous areas.
Mobilization of Non-Governmental Organizations in prevention and information actions.
Suppression
Strengthening cooperation and coordination of stakeholders under a single coordinating body for natural disaster response.
Allocation of staff and resources according to the needs of the expected incidents, in accordance with the National and Regional Prevention Plans.
Use of technologies for monitoring and forecasting the evolution of phenomena
Restoration
Continuous monitoring of land use and the ecological evolution and restoration of burnt areas, using modern means (satellite imagery etc.).
Regulating activities in burnt forest areas and providing economic incentives and compensatory measures for those who are damaged, e.g. for livestock farmers not to graze in areas under regeneration.
Developing expertise and infrastructure in cooperation with other countries for effective and scientifically sound restoration of the sites.
Enforcing environmental legislation and imposing strict sanctions on offenders.
We are promoting a bill to protect mountain ranges and prevent fires.
The message is clear: No tolerance for lawlessness in the burnt areas of Attica.
Key elements of the bill:
-Suspension of the issuance of building permits and prohibition of work until the relevant forest maps are ratified with some exceptions which will be described in the bill.
-Special Service for the Prevention and Suppression of Unauthorised Constructions .
-Operation of a remote sensing system to identify new buildings .
-Compulsory land registration with urgent procedures .
-Emergency completion of the forest map validation procedure .
WASTE
The aim is the integrated management of solid waste by reducing its production, recovery, recycling, reuse of materials.
Waste management for a modern society is not just a matter of protecting the environment.
It creates a market and quality jobs in research and technology development, recycling programmes, construction and operation of waste treatment and disposal facilities.
Our country must be a pioneer in this field and not be the laggard of Europe.
In relation to the social consensus, systematic and targeted information and dialogue will be carried out.
Reducing waste generation through source separation and market incentives.
Reuse and recycling of waste with modern infrastructure and services with recycling systems and participation of local authorities.
Energy recovery of residues by applying the best technological methods on a case-by-case basis
Our policy objective is the final disposal of only the residues resulting from waste treatment in order to move away from the obsolete technique of landfills.
TRANSPORT
In the new transport environment, we are shaping modern operating frameworks, organisation and incentives that ensure passenger transport as a public good for all citizens and in all regions.
Key priorities:
Implement integrated interventions in infrastructure, vehicles, education and road behaviour control to drastically reduce road accidents.
Ensuring the possibility of transport, with low fares and quality conditions, for the whole population of the country,
for all age groups
and especially for people with disabilities.
Promotion of public transport in all regions of the country, as well as the most environmentally friendly alternative forms of transport (bicycle, walking) while discouraging the excessive use of private cars.
Promotion of Greece as an international transit centre, with the implementation of combined transport
For the movement of citizens in urban areas, our objectives are:
The further development of the Athens and Thessaloniki Metro, Tram, Electric and Suburban Rail networks and the implementation of Interchange Stations to interconnect them with the bus and trolleybus network.
Improving the level of service provided by buses and trolleybuses by expanding the bus and trolleybus network and effectively policing them.
Encouraging the development of inter/intra-municipal transport in major centres.
Prioritise the creation of comfortable and unobstructed sidewalks, walking lanes for pedestrians and cyclists in cities.
The management of traffic, stopping and parking of special categories of vehicles (taxis, catering vehicles, lorries, emergency vehicles).
For PASOK, road safety is a national priority.
To drastically reduce accidents, we will proceed with the inclusion of appropriate road safety lessons in school curricula and focused information campaigns, actions to improve drivers' traffic behaviour, reinforcement of programmes for interventions to improve pavements to ensure safe and unobstructed circulation for pedestrians and people with disabilities, tightening of the provisions for the placement of billboards and definition of their locations in major cities and the main road network.
Railway - OSE
For PASOK, a key priority is the revival of the Greek Railway with development and modernisation programmes, its expansion and connection to the European Networks, the country's main ports, freight centres and industrial areas, in order to support the modern development model of the country.
The public and social character of OSE is ensured also in the liberalised market.
We guarantee the financing of the implementation of infrastructure development and modernisation projects at the lowest possible cost, with rational and transparent management.
Air transport - Airports
Accelerate the implementation of new modern infrastructure at the country's airports and implement an effective maintenance programme.
The emergence of Greece's International Airports as hubs of the European and International Networks and attracting more airlines to them.
Cooperation and joint action with the Local Authorities, business and tourism in order to improve the quality of the service provided to citizens and visitors - tourists.
Maintaining and extending the "barren lines" with a compensatory payment.
For Olympic Airways, we prefer a mixed public and private capital scheme with international strategic partnerships.
Our aim is to safeguard healthy competition and prevent the creation of oligopolistic situations that burden the citizen and the Greek region, and to ensure universal service.
CONTACT
The transformation of the country into a modern service hub in the wider South East region. Europe and the Mediterranean is a national development goal and a comparative advantage.
With a bold policy of transition to the new era, we want Greece to quickly catch up and rank among the first countries in the use of advanced e-services by 2015.
In our view, advanced e-services are a Public Good, to which access must be ensured to everyone, everywhere and at all times.
In this context our objectives are:
Access for everyone, everywhere, every time
Free access - open software - free content .
Broadband Internet everywhere, Broadband Internet for all
No Greek victim of digital exclusion
Coverage of the whole territory with access to high-speed broadband networks
Development of new value-added services and content in Greek.
Broadband access to unified communication, information and TV services anytime, anywhere, with a single connection for all residents of the country.
For PASOK, OTE is a key tool for the development of infrastructure and services throughout Greece and the wider region.
It is a lever of support for the Greek productive base, with a competitive position among the major telecommunications organizations in Europe and a staff with competence and know-how.
PASOK will exhaust all political, legal and financial possibilities in order for the Greek state to regain control of OTE.
To have strategic control over the crucial technological sector of telecommunications, broadband networks and access for every citizen to the information society.
Postal Market
The full liberalization of the Postal Market in Greece as of 2013 makes it more urgent than ever to ensure the provision of universal postal services throughout Greece with quality standards and at affordable prices.
The ELTA, the main provider of universal services in the competitive and liberalised postal market, with its public character, and in cooperation with the Postal Savings Bank in the provision of financial services, is organised with a sustainable business plan, with a reinforced social orientation and an enhanced role in the regional development of the country.
ISLANDS AND SHIPPING
In PASOK, we have set as a priority the implementation of specific, active island policies, aiming at sustainable green development.
The central pillars of our policy:
Development of a modern combined transport network that will ensure adequate accessibility to each island region.
Health protection of the island area, with modern island-type health units and the operation of a reliable air ambulance system.
Ability to access broadband networks and provide advanced telematics services everywhere.
Establishment of specific incentives to strengthen island entrepreneurship.
Establishment of incentives to attract and retain skilled human resources on the islands.
We give priority to the implementation of policies that will ensure to the Greek and European citizen an "equivalent right" to travel to and from the islands as that of a resident of mainland Europe.
We promote the establishment of the "Transport Equivalent", the harmonisation as far as possible of the tariff burden of the user of maritime transport with that of land transport and the remuneration of a similar service.
PASOK's proposals focus on the following points:
Policy for the development of an integrated and unified transport system with the coordination of different means of transport (ship-to-ship, ship-to-train, ship-to-plane, ship-to-airplane, etc.).
Creating a single decision-making centre.
Redefining and redesigning the network of Shipping Connections, following public dialogue and consultation, with the participation of Local Authorities.
Re-establishment of the Maritime Infrastructure Regulatory Authority, which will supervise and regulate the market to ensure healthy competition.
Adjustments to public service fares, under a fare subsidy scheme, with special provision for island residents.
For the network of barren lines and inter-island communication, a new regulatory framework for the award of public interest lines, local authorities and transport service users to be able to participate in shipping, either through PPPs or PFIs, or completely autonomously, or through the companies they can set up, and transparent and equal tendering.
MARINE ENVIRONMENT
The Greek seas are a national asset.
The protection of the marine environment contributes to national, regional and island economic development, improves the quality of life and protects the special natural beauty and cultural heritage of our country.
Promotion, implementation and/or revision of international and European regulations, in the context of a continuous consultation with the maritime community, with emphasis on safety of navigation and
protection of the marine environment.
Development of Marine Spatial Planning, as a main tool for the implementation of Integrated Maritime Policy.
Greece's initiative to create more Sulphur Emission Control Areas (SECAs), with emphasis on the Mediterranean, starting as a pilot in the Aegean Sea.
Modernisation of port infrastructure and creation of modern passenger stations throughout the region.
SEAFARING SHIPPING
For PASOK, shipping is a particularly important sector of the Greek economy, with a significant contribution to GDP, the external balance of payments and job creation.
Our priorities are:
Attracting young people to the maritime profession.
Provide incentives for them to stay in the maritime profession.
Substantial upgrading of naval training and in the design and implementation of lifelong learning systems for officers.
Improving the framework for cruise and marine tourism.
Promotion of the institution of maritime arbitration and mediation in Piraeus.
The transformation of Piraeus into an international maritime centre.
Support for the Greek Flag.
Actively contribute to the promotion of international solutions to address and reduce the major problem of piracy.
PASOK is committed to take the lead in coordinating all those actions at international, European, national, regional and local level that lead to the improvement of the triptych of quality in shipping, i.e. maritime competitiveness,
safety of navigation
and protection of the marine environment.
PORT POLICY
We want our ports to exploit the huge advantages associated with our country's strategic geographical position.
To become important transit hubs in the wider region, providing modern, high-quality port services at competitive prices, and ensuring the connection of regional and national networks.
We promote structural changes that will govern the autonomous organisation, administration and operation of ports and merit-based public port authorities.
We strengthen the role of public port authorities as a factor in ensuring the public interest in the provision of port services.
We say no to the privatisation of ports.
We are modernising port infrastructure and creating modern passenger stations throughout the region.
Facilitate the development of value-added service industries in the wider port area, with the aim of expanding transport work.
We enhance transparency in port-user relations.
We promote the extroversion of Greek Ports through their active participation in international forums
and actively intervene in the formulation of the European Port Policy.
For PASOK, public control and management of our port infrastructure is a viable and imperative option, due to its strategic nature in the development of the Greek economy.
Specifically for the PPA, the PASOK government will exhaust all possibilities in order to safeguard the public interest and labour rights, through a substantial and in-depth renegotiation.
BUILT ENVIRONMENT AND SPATIAL PLANNING
The aim is to make cities safe, pleasant and sustainable.
Creating open green spaces by increasing the green space per capita by 20% within four years.
Transfer to local government the management of open public spaces and green spaces with a clear commitment and specifications for their use.
Urban renewal with the removal of signs from facades and pavements,
green roofs and energy efficient buildings in a comprehensive programme.
We protect and develop into open spaces of high greenery the suburban areas, the parks and open spaces that exist in the cities, the sports facilities - and in Attica the Olympic venues - and the sea front.
We are tackling air pollution by promoting combined transport with an emphasis on public transport to move people away from cars, while giving priority to pavements and cycle paths.
We establish a system for regular monitoring and control of emissions from activities in the city.
We tackle noise pollution with comprehensive noise recording and abatement programmes, and review the relevant institutional framework.
We are redesigning the country's spatial framework with new directions:
Anticipating, addressing and adapting to the major challenges of the present and the near future, such as climate change, new energy maps, migration, food crises, population concentration in cities.
Emphasis on basic social infrastructure, education and health throughout Greece as a precondition for decentralisation.
Highlighting the comparative advantages of each region by locating productive activities that highlight these advantages.
Developing transport, energy and communications networks that respect the environment and increase productivity.
Of particular importance in the highly sensitive area of the coastal zone and the Greek islands.
Protection of the man-made urban environment and promotion of the architectural heritage preserved in Greek cities, management and protection of open and public spaces.
Restraint of the rural population.
Revision of the specific spatial frameworks in order to:
The Special Spatial Framework for Industry should present a national-scale plan for decentralisation to organised reception points
and control of pollution phenomena.
The Special Spatial Framework for RES to create the conditions, planning and infrastructure that will allow the full exploitation of RES.
The Special Spatial Framework for Tourism to highlight through tourism development the local identity and local comparative advantages of each region, while promoting the environment and cultural heritage.
2.7. POLICIES AND ECONOMIC INSTRUMENTS FOR THE TRANSITION TO THE 'GREEN' MODEL OF DEVELOPMENT
The inherent failure of markets to address environmental problems requires state intervention.
The state will take a leading role, particularly in the early stages of the implementation of the green growth model, by setting an example by greening the functioning of the state
and intervening in the functioning of markets through legislation and economic incentives:
"Green national accounts: Capturing our country's natural wealth as a whole by category and geographical area in "green" accounts complementing traditional economic indicators for measuring prosperity.
"Greening" the tax system to shift the tax burden from environmentally friendly goods and services to those that are more environmentally damaging.
The aim is to create economic incentives for both producers and consumers to make pro-environmental choices.
Research and development: Innovation hotspots in the country's research institutions will be exploited, with a focus on innovative agricultural practices, methods to improve the management of forests, water resources and rural areas, renewable energy sources and technologies to reduce energy consumption.
"Green Fund: Aims to finance interventions to improve the quality of the environment.
Financing the Fund from government resources and private contributions through corporate social responsibility programmes and from the revenues from the auctioning of emission allowances.
Environmental policy management tools: Radical revision of the national spatial plan.
Enforce environmental legislation with a strong and effective body of Environmental Inspectors to combat environmental crime.
Impose environmental and energy labelling (eco-labelling) on electrical appliances and all products by 2015;
Establish a national body for organised and continuous environmental consultation with advisory status.
To finance the green economy, we will proceed with the revision of the Public Investment Programme and the NSRF so that a larger share is dedicated to green actions.
NEW INSTITUTIONAL ORGANISATION
As the Greek state has not created the necessary infrastructure to deal with the ever-increasing environmental problems, immediate and radical changes in the institutional framework are required.
Integration of environmental criteria into strategic planning and decision-making by all ministries and public bodies.
Create a strong Ministry of Environment, Energy and Climate Change.
Providing scientific support to the public and information to citizens.
Publication of all public data and actions and scrutiny in parliament.
Transferring decision-making powers to the local level.
"Greening" the functioning of the state.
Local government will play a key role in environmental planning and the implementation of environmental policies.
3. STRONG AND EFFICIENT WELFARE STATE
The Social State is a fundamental component of democracy, a public obligation and a function that ensures social rights, equal opportunities for all, quality services and solidarity structures.
It ensures the necessary social cohesion that is a prerequisite for economic and regional development.
We are committed to a universal, effective and decentralized Social State that adequately meets the needs of citizens and creates a climate of security and stability.
3.1. FULL EMPLOYMENT AND DECENT WORK FOR ALL
There can be no sustainable growth without decent work for all
and without a modern welfare state, and no
welfare state is economically sustainable without full and decent employment.
CREATING NEW JOBS WITH GREEN GROWTH
Green growth is estimated to create at least 250,000 new jobs in Greece over the next decade, if we decide today to make the necessary investments in key sectors such as renewable energy, building and construction, waste management, agriculture and tourism.
In order to maximise the effectiveness of the shift to green growth, (a) the greatest possible coordination between investment support, employment promotion and vocational education and training policies will be promoted,
and (b) the early identification of occupational, knowledge and skills needs and the coordination of individual training systems at regional level.
STRENGTHENING THE PROTECTION OF THE WORKER - SAFEGUARDING HIS RIGHTS
For the new progressive government of PASOK, strengthening the protection and rights of workers
and the unemployed
means a new democratic regulation of labour relations within the framework of a new national social agreement.
Our priorities are:
The reconstitution and modernisation of the mechanisms for overseeing the functioning of the labour market, in particular the Labour Inspectorate.
The fight against undeclared work, by making full use of the potential of e-government,
but also the revision of immigration policy so that migrants are not trapped in undeclared work.
A radical overhaul of the legislation on hiring out workers.
The abolition of the laws of the Southwest that circumvent and restrict collective autonomy, labour and social rights.
Strengthening collective bargaining at all levels.
Strengthening the system of protection of workers against collective dismissals.
The extension of the fundamental guarantees of labour law to all forms of employment, especially economically dependent self-employment, the so-called "block jobs".
The gradual increase of the unemployment benefit to 70% of the basic wage and the effective link to labour market integration policies.
WE MOTIVATE THE CREATION OF JOBS
Reform and substantial decentralisation of the OAED, its services and employment and vocational training programmes.
Implementation of the Social Work Programme in the areas of green economy, environment, social services and culture with the direct aim of mitigating the impact of the crisis on vulnerable groups.
Incentives to recruit young people with a 4-year subsidy on their social security contributions.
Orientation of STAGE exclusively towards the private sector that can really offer useful practical training for the future of young people and public certification of the knowledge and skills they acquire.
Promoting New Entrepreneurship.
3.2. A JUST AND VIABLE INSURANCE SYSTEM
The social security system needs changes, which we will make after an honest and meaningful dialogue with the social partners.
OUR KEY PRIORITIES
The financial strengthening of the system and ensuring its financial equilibrium.
We establish and apply uniform rules on the obligations of the state, businesses and workers with absolute consistency.
We promote the joint venture and partnership of the four major institutions (IKA, OGA, OAEE, OPAD) with the aim of jointly controlling health expenditure, co-negotiating the purchase of health services and co-collecting contributions, without abolishing their autonomy.
We guarantee the adequate financing of the Insurance System.
Addressing the major everyday problems that plague citizens in their transactions with the Funds.
We are speeding up the procedures for the payment of pensions and other benefits - pensions in a maximum of 3 months in all funds by the end of 2010.
Strengthen and expand Primary Health Care Units, as part of an integrated Primary Health Care System, to ensure immediate access for citizens.
Addressing distortions and remedying injustices that have widened over the last 5 years.
We are repealing the provisions passed by the New Democracy government that provide for an increase in the age limit and a reduction in pensions.
We are making the necessary changes to the insurance law for the consolidation of funds, in order to address the problems and new injustices that have been created.
We are promoting, after studies, real consolidation with insurance logic leading to operationally modern and financially viable funds.
We are improving the succession scheme by changing the procedures for awarding pensions and the way they are calculated.
OUR COMMITMENTS
We are creating the conditions for a public insurance system that is economically viable and covers the needs of citizens in terms of social justice and solidarity.
We establish the basic pension as a common starting point for all pensions, financed from the state budget.
We strengthen the state's participation in tripartite financing, we strengthen the insurance incentive.
We are increasing the basic pension for farmers and the uninsured so that it is gradually increased to €950 for a couple and €550 for an individual pensioner.
We are gradually aligning the pension conditions for farmers with those of other funds applicable to new insured persons.
We separate the insurance benefits paid by the funds from the welfare benefits that will be charged to the state budget in order to further strengthen the funds, with the first application to the OAEE.
We are reforming the institution of the ESAS with the aim of gradually increasing the number of beneficiaries by 300,000 pensioners.
We are updating and improving the status of Heavy and Unhealthy Occupations on equal terms in the public and private sectors, following dialogue with stakeholders and scientific evidence.
We are creating the service of the Insurance Adviser to the Funds to provide timely and accurate information to citizens on their obligations and rights.
We recommend in practice the National Solidarity Fund with the aim of strengthening the system economically for the needs of young people tomorrow.
3.3. FAMILY SUPPORT AND SOCIAL PROTECTION
We face the demographic problem with political responsibility and sensitivity towards the free choices of citizens.
We encourage couples to raise not as many children as they can, but as many children as they want.
We put children first.
We enable every child to start life in good conditions, with additional support for children with special needs due to poverty, disability or social discrimination.
The child, as an autonomous being, is protected from threats and supported in the development of his/her personality.
FAMILY SUPPORT
We are doubling the number of places in nurseries for children up to 4 years old by the end of the first four years, and extending their opening hours.
We give priority to single-parent families and especially to the children of unemployed, uninsured or single mothers.
We ensure equal participation of children with disabilities in pre-school care.
We provide coverage of the costs of medically assisted conception by establishing uniform benefit rules for insurance providers and coverage from the state budget of the costs for unemployed, uninsured or destitute women.
We are reassessing the parental leave system to make it much easier for parents.
We strengthen the mechanisms for monitoring the implementation of labour legislation on working hours, parental leave and pregnancy protection.
We are designing a new housing policy that supports young people who want to start a family.
SOCIAL PROTECTION SERVICES
We promote as a priority an effective safety net that guarantees a minimum decent standard of living for all, combining both modern and quality services to support the middle and weaker social strata
and targeted income support for those who really need it most, especially poor families with children.
We are creating a Social Protection Network at the municipal level, next to those in need, to prevent or deal directly with problems such as domestic violence or violence among minors, truancy, breakdown of family relationships, drug use, mental illness, disability, loss of a partner or parent, social exclusion, etc.
The Social Protection Network also includes the services related to facilitating the integration of immigrants and their families, as well as services for special cultural groups such as the Roma - Gypsies.
We are further committed to implementing integrated programmes for socially vulnerable groups, which will provide solutions to the acute problems they face.
Counselling psychologist in schools.
The Network employs at least one psychologist who is responsible for monitoring the education and counselling of pupils and for guiding parents and teachers.
Increase and annual adjustment of the Unprotected Child Allowance to ensure a minimum guaranteed standard of living for the child.
Delinquent behaviour of juveniles and young people: we prevent aggression in juveniles through counselling and policies that ensure their normal socialisation.
We are improving the criminal justice system by creating alternatives for minors instead of resorting to criminal measures.
Implement a National Deinstitutionalisation Plan, and complete it within ten years, based on the reorganisation of existing closed care structures and the development of a supportive framework to ensure that as many people with severe disabilities and multiple dependency needs as possible remain in the community.
Immediate operation of the Social Support and Training Centres for the Disabled (KEKYKAMEA).
Expanding the "Help at Home" service and strengthening its services with additional professionals, so that it can gradually take on other vulnerable social groups, such as people with disabilities.
Increase in the number of Day Care Centres for the Elderly and new actions in the Centres for the active ageing of people (lifelong learning, social work).
Immediately improve the quality of institutional care for the disabled elderly.
INSTITUTIONAL INTERVENTIONS
A new legislative initiative to promote gender equality in practice and ensure women's rights in political, economic and social life.
Improvement and adaptation of Family Law to modern family issues, with special attention to issues of divorce (child custody, maintenance, etc.), with the aim of protecting the rights and interests of children, giving an important role to both parents.
Modernisation of the framework for dealing with domestic violence, with the simultaneous creation of support centres for victims and temporary accommodation.
Amend the existing legislation on trafficking in human beings.
Reform of the provisions on adoptions to facilitate the institution, with rules of transparency and simplification of bureaucracy for those wishing to adopt, while safeguarding children.
Civil partnership is a recognised legal form of free choice of cohabitation regardless of gender.
3.4. PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES: EQUAL PARTICIPATION IN LIFE
In a just society, exclusion is not allowed.
A society is human and strong when it is able to give equal opportunities to all citizens to participate.
We are committed to removing barriers and supporting people with disabilities and their families to live independently and with dignity.
Our commitments:
Ratification of the International Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities after reviewing all legislation and policies for compatibility with the Convention.
Adoption of an Executive Law specifying the measures and policies required by the Constitution and adoption of equal treatment legislation in all areas (employment, education, information society, accessibility).
Introduce an obligation for all public bodies to draw up disability mainstreaming plans.
Legislation to meet accessibility standards in the physical and built environment, transport, the Information Society, goods and services.
Draft a special law on employment and vocational training for people with disabilities.
Modernisation of the institutional framework for supported employment for those people with disabilities who are not able due to their disability category (e.g. intellectual disability) to join the open labour market.
Development of partnerships, within the framework of the social intervention network, between local authorities and disability organisations for the creation of small-scale services (Day Care Centres, Counselling Centres).
Creating an institutional framework to promote early diagnosis - early intervention programmes.
Upgrading the health services provided to people with chronic diseases (such as diabetes, thalassemia, nephropathy) through the establishment of new specialised units and the modernisation of existing ones (diabetology centres, thalassemia units, etc.).
3.5. NEW NATIONAL HEALTH POLICY
The institutionalisation of the NHS by PASOK was the most serious and substantial effort to form a modern welfare state.
For PASOK, the regeneration and completion of the NHS is a commitment to the citizens.
For a National Health System with a public character, a unified structure, free high quality services, accessibility for all, strong Primary Health Care, upgraded Prevention, Protection and Promotion of Health, transparency and accountability everywhere, and reduction of health inequalities.
Our strategy for prevention, health promotion, health protection and public health:
Absolute priority to prevention and health promotion. National Public Health Policy.
Special surveillance network for chronic diseases (cancer, diabetes, cardiovascular, respiratory)
INTEGRATED SYSTEM OF INTEGRATED PUBLIC PRIMARY HEALTH CARE (IPHC)
Formation of a Primary Health Care system in each municipality.
The Primary Health Care system is completed with the establishment of Family Medicine units in each municipality, with 24-hour operation.
All existing Primary Health Care services are included and utilised.
Family doctor and paediatrician, freely chosen by families in every neighbourhood, in every municipality.
The Ministry of Health supervises, coordinates and monitors the system.
Electronic Health Card. It ensures direct access to the family doctor, the Family Medicine Unit, the pharmacy, and is interconnected in a single computerized system.
Ensuring a basic package of publicly funded health benefits, with coverage for the entire population, such as:
Preventive and diagnostic tests, office and home visits, home monitoring, ensuring immediate access to hospitals and rehabilitation services.
Providing dental prevention and maintaining the oral health of the population.
Cooperation of Primary Health Care doctors with all Social Services at the municipal level.
MODERN HOSPITALS THAT RESPECT THE CITIZEN AND SERVE HIS NEEDS EFFECTIVELY
Recruitment of new staff (3000 positions every year, in addition to retirements) in order to exploit the infrastructure and high-tech equipment, aiming at the full-day operation of hospitals.
Development of Day Clinics and Day Surgeries and Day Care Units.
Full staffing of Intensive Care Units (ICUs) and Intensive Care Units (ICUs) and the creation of new units.
Upgrading the operation of the Emergency Departments.
Creation of a network of rehabilitation units.
Establishment of Hospitals for Chronic and Terminal Patients, as well as Geriatric Units.
Upgrading, expansion and nationwide development of the services of EKAB,
creation of a new service for the chronically ill and reorganization of air ambulances.
Completion of the Health Charter.
Designing health services based on the specific needs of each region.
QUALITY HEALTH SERVICES THROUGH EVALUATION, CERTIFICATION AND SOCIAL ACCOUNTABILITY
Single rules for all public and private health care providers and effective supervision.
National Centre for Quality, Evaluation and Certification of Health Services.
Establishment of Treatment Protocols and Good Practice Protocols, monitoring and continuous internal and external evaluation of the system.
Publication of evaluation data by clinic and hospital.
Publication of comparative data.
An electronic patient record, which is integrated into the Health Card to enable monitoring and evaluation of patients' progress.
HUMAN RESOURCES
Strengthening the staff of the NHS, with priority given to nursing and technological staff.
Reorganisation of the specialty allocation process for doctors by introducing a new training programme per specialty.
Expanding and upgrading nursing specialties and other health professions.
Reliability and systematic evaluation everywhere
Information technology everywhere with a timetable for implementation.
FINANCING OF THE SYSTEM, MODERN AND EFFICIENT MANAGEMENT
Increase by 1% of GDP in public funding over four years.
Fighting waste and corruption through a transparent and decentralised procurement system with uniform specifications, uniform coding of items, publication of price ranges and the introduction of open electronic tendering.
Immediate implementation of a double-entry accounting system and uniform coding of transactions, forms and materials.
The aim is to save an additional 1% of GDP.
The Ministry of Health is the sole health policy maker and implementer.
The Health Regions will coincide perfectly with the Administrative Regions, with the perspective of being integrated into the elected Region as autonomous Health and Welfare Services with a role of planning, coordination, evaluation and control of the health services of the Region.
Autonomous administration of the Health Care Systems with the participation of the Local Government in the planning, health promotion and prevention programmes.
Hospitals are autonomous functional units with modern management, with objectives, an action plan, transparency rules, evaluation, control and accountability.
IT everywhere with an implementation timetable.
PHARMACEUTICAL POLICY
Ensuring that the citizen's pharmaceutical care is available,
reducing waste and saving money for more benefits in the system.
Establishment of the list of medicines in accordance with European standards
Strengthening the growth prospects of the domestic pharmaceutical industry.
The EMEA is being upgraded to the sole body for real control and supervision of the pharmaceutical market.
3.6. MENTAL HEALTH - ADDICTIONS - DRUGS
MENTAL HEALTH
Mental health has a direct and decisive impact on everyday life in the family, at school, at work and at leisure.
Today, there is a growing awareness that there is no health without mental health.
Addressing the challenges of mental health together is necessary and concerns us all.
Our priorities:
Promote the mental health and well-being of the population and strengthen preventive action and self-help
Provide support and adequate treatment to people with mental health problems and their families
Combat stigma, discrimination and social exclusion.
ADDICTIONS - DRUGS
Our main priority is to effectively tackle the scourge of drugs, by formulating a National Plan and ensuring resources for the development of the necessary infrastructure and treatment programmes.
At the same time, we need to address the development of new forms of 'addiction', particularly at young ages, which pose significant threats, such as nicotine, alcohol, pharmaceuticals, obesity, as well as the symptoms of internet addiction.
Our priorities:
Strengthening of prevention centres throughout Greece
Ensuring for every patient the right to treatment - one place for every patient
Modernisation of drug legislation and introduction of alternatives to prison.
Supporting the addict to integrate into society
Mobilisation and cooperation with all stakeholders, visible in the promotion of scientific research, information and active participation of citizens in tackling the problem
4. LEARNING FOR ALL AND INVESTING IN CULTURE
4. LEARNING FOR ALL AND INVESTING IN CULTURE
4.1. PUBLIC, FREE AND HIGH QUALITY EDUCATION FOR ALL
BUILDING AN EDUCATION SYSTEM THAT MEETS THE NEEDS OF THE NEW ERA
We invest in people, their knowledge and creativity, their capacity for innovation, entrepreneurship and employment according to their inclinations, interests, skills, talent and knowledge, not according to their origin, social and geographical background, gender, religion or party affiliation.
PASOK guarantees the new generation and every family the free public education that the country needs today.
An education system based on quality and assessment,
where modern infrastructure, IT and new technologies will be a matter of course in schools and universities, with laptops, e-books and fast free internet access for every pupil and student.
An education system that functions as a force for growth and social cohesion,
as a tool for redistributing wealth, not as a means of reproducing social discrimination and creating new exclusions.
An education system linked to society and production, giving our young people all the opportunities to become equal citizens of Europe.
PASOK guarantees a continuous increase in funding for Education, in order to reach the 5% of GDP target at the end of the four-year period.
From the first year, from the first budget that our government will draw up, this increase will reach €1 billion.
PASOK guarantees continuous training, objective evaluation, participation and an increase in teachers' salaries.
We want teachers to be protagonists in the effort to revitalise education.
CREATING AN OPEN SCHOOL THAT LOOKS TO THE FUTURE
Early childhood education and education for all.
We make pre-school education a public good.
Internet and foreign languages.
Every student who finishes secondary school will acquire, through school education, internationally recognised certificates of competence in internet use and language proficiency in at least one foreign language.
National Programme Framework.
We replace the stifling curriculum with a national curriculum framework that opens up the scope for creativity and initiative in every school.
We set national learning targets at every level and enable schools to adapt at regional and local level to the needs of pupils and parents.
Open school in close cooperation with parents and the local community.
We are building a dynamic educational unit, with flexibility, accountability and responsibility in managing resources and organising learning.
The open school operates as a local community, with a distinct identity, able to respond effectively and with quality to the individual needs of each pupil; it
gives a role and participation to parents, regional and local authorities.
Full-time school is the general rule.
By the end of the four-year period, all-day school will be the basic type of school at all levels.
We are reorganising and upgrading the full-day school stay.
We are introducing a new single day programme, which organically integrates the lessons of the current morning school and implements the new national curriculum framework.
The emphasis where there is greatest need.
Increased funding at the school level, additional incentives and targeted teacher training.
We are expanding our remedial teaching and additional teaching support programmes.
Their work is evaluated and improved.
We strengthen the role of parents in their organisation.
A modern system of special education for children with disabilities.
Ensure equal participation in the education system for all children regardless of their origin, mental or physical ability or other special needs.
We extend the institution of all-day school to kindergartens and special schools.
We provide technological and technical aids to students with disabilities, and support a special program for students with disabilities.
Intercultural education. We support actions and practices with intercultural orientation for all students without exception.
Based on the principles of intercultural education, we reduce school dropout and ensure the smooth integration of students with ethno-cultural differences in education and life.
Self-contained Lyceum with National Baccalaureate.
An independent educational level with educational and professional value certified by the National Baccalaureate, which is awarded after general and objective examinations in a selected number of subjects.
In order to improve the quality of the education provided at the high school, the curricula will be: (a) reformed by introducing elective courses and gradually reducing the number of subjects, without this meaning that the total time spent at school will be reduced.
(b) school life will be enhanced by sports, environmental, cultural and social activities.
Self-contained Technological and Vocational Lyceum.
We are broadening students' choices in programs and educational pathways, with the reorganization of technical vocational education and the creation of a self-sufficient Technical High School.
We expand the possibilities for students to move between different types of high schools.
Strengthen the role and participation of regional and local authorities and productive bodies to link the specialisations of the Technical Lyceum with the needs of local and regional development.
Changing the examination system in order to eliminate the need for tutorial preparation and meaningless rote learning.
The examinations for the national Baccalaureate are conducted centrally and with procedures that ensure impartiality.
The topics are selected from a bank of topics of weighted difficulty.
HEIs and TEIs will set admission requirements based on the National Baccalaureate.
The candidate will be admitted to the School or University, not the Department, giving them a wider range of choices.
The changes are being introduced gradually so as not to take students and their parents by surprise.
Teachers with professional and social standing.
Decent salaries for teachers combined with their upgraded role, increased responsibilities, training and evaluation of the educational unit and their work.
Incentives to attract teachers with specialised qualifications to schools that are currently considered unattractive due to geographical location or other circumstances.
We strengthen the initial training of secondary school teachers with a series of courses, seminars on pedagogy and teaching and training in the use of new technologies.
WE ARE BUILDING A PUBLIC HIGHER EDUCATION THAT LEADS THE WAY INTERNATIONALLY
We want autonomous and self-governing Universities and TEIs, with strong state funding, social accountability mechanisms and self-management that will be a model of transparency, aiming at excellence, preparing tomorrow's active citizens, and linking them to professional life.
Review of the spatial distribution of universities and HEIs based on real needs and demand.
Programmatic agreements with the state.
We want institutions with strong, flexible, dynamic management that operate with transparent, publicly audited organizations and internal regulations, with multi-year - mutually binding - programmatic agreements with the state where they define their own goals, their own character, strategy, structure and operation.
Libraries, textbooks and the internet.
Enriched university libraries, with digitised textbooks, connected to each other, to the - digitised - National Library and international databases and journals, with extended opening hours, which are centres of learning and study and give access to scientific knowledge to the wider society.
Computer labs and high-speed internet access areas.
Higher education extroverted to the world.
We want higher education with an international character.
We support the organization of joint programmes with foreign institutions, the offering of educational programmes in foreign languages and Greek language courses for foreign students.
Mobility in Universities.
We want institutions that encourage interdisciplinary learning and give students opportunities to build knowledge, develop modern skills, with increased freedom of choice.
Freedom of movement of students between different Departments, disciplines and institutions, based on academic criteria, and with the possibility of attending recognised periods of study abroad.
Evaluation and social accountability.
Each University will be evaluated on the basis of the objectives that it has published and agreed with the State.
Higher education for all.
Financial coverage of student care for those students who need it.
We enable them to work part-time in the institutions where they study and allow for part-time study to facilitate this.
OPPORTUNITIES FOR LIFELONG LEARNING
We enhance the provision of learning opportunities, facilitate participation, strengthen incentives, improve the quality and effectiveness of lifelong learning education and training programmes.
With executive planning and coordination at national level, with decentralisation, mobilisation and participation of all social actors and businesses at regional and local level.
Lifelong learning for citizens and workers.
Emphasis on in-house training for employees.
We subsidise education loans for young unemployed people.
We strengthen incentives for businesses to provide ongoing training for their staff.
We strengthen and expand the Adult Education Centres, the Second Chance Schools.
We certify qualifications acquired through vocational training and informal learning.
We exploit the potential of distance learning.
We are responding to the strong demand for lifelong higher learning by strengthening the Open University.
Prioritise the social groups most exposed to unemployment and social exclusion.
PROMOTING RESEARCH TO RESPOND TO THE CHALLENGES OF OUR TIMES
We are committed to a gradual increase in overall research funding to reach 2% of GDP over four years.
Most of the funding will continue to come from the public budget as part of a national strategic plan, with rationalisation and operational integration of public research centres and university research.
The programme to promote research will emphasise the strengthening and development of the research potential, around specific axes, in partnership with the productive sector, but also in the field of public goods such as health, nutrition or the environment, and the development of cutting-edge research, based solely on the criterion of excellence.
4.2. CULTURE AS A FORCE FOR DEVELOPMENT
SUPPORT FOR CREATIVITY, FREEDOM OF ACCESS AND CHOICE FOR CITIZENS
PASOK sets as a basic objective the guarantee and recognition of cultural rights of creation and enjoyment for all as an integral part of their individual and social rights.
We wish to give culture back its universality and its true value.
OUR PRIORITIES
Utilisation of our cultural capital, so that the country's cultural heritage is presented on an equal footing on the international stage and becomes a strong productive force.
Dynamic impetus to contemporary Greek culture.
Creating the conditions for equal opportunities for all to access, enjoy and participate in cultural creation.
Restoring the authority and institutions of cultural policy-making.
PASOK assumes the responsibility:
for clear and publicised conditions and rules in all choices: in the financing of projects, programmes, actions and institutions.
For the establishment and publication by the Ministry of Culture of registers of applicants of natural and legal persons for the undertaking of cultural actions.
For the elimination of partisanship, meritocracy at all levels, transparency and efficiency in the management of resources.
For the adoption of a framework law on cinema to ensure support for film production.
CULTURE AS THE COUNTRY'S DEVELOPMENT POTENTIAL
PASOK looks forward to the transformation of culture from a field of mere passive consumption to a productive force of the country.
The modern development dimension of culture is linked to the creation of thousands of new jobs and social cohesion.
Greece can:
organise the export of cultural products and activities and acquire its own field of cultural distinctiveness and distinction.
exploit the infrastructure of the Olympic Games, its environment, its landscape, its natural and cultural wealth, for cultural development and for attracting cultural activities from other countries or the international arena to
play a leading role and export know-how in the elaboration of programmes with the countries of South-Eastern Europe and the Mediterranean in the field of conservation and restoration of monuments.
The state will contribute to:
Creating conditions conducive to the development of structures for the production of cultural products and services, with quality criteria and certified procedures.
Promotion and promotion of certified products and services in cooperation with private initiative and especially with small and medium-sized enterprises and women's cooperatives, in a defined framework of principles and incentives with transparent procedures (copies from museums, food products, etc.).
Promotion of scientific conventional and electronic publications, especially those related to the study and research of cultural heritage.
Promoting "smart" services and products in the tourism market.
Re-organization of existing state structures in order to multiply the number of recipients of our cultural product abroad.
UPGRADING THE CULTURAL ENVIRONMENT
In order to improve the quality of life of our citizens, we have set the following priorities for the protection of the natural environment,
of public open spaces
and our cultural heritage:
Establishment of an archaeological cadastre .
Upgrading the environment of degraded areas.
Further development in other cities outside Athens of the archaeological site consolidation programmes.
Taking "flagship" actions and initiatives, such as "Image of the City" to establish rules for TV antennas, signs, advertisements.
Promotion and protection of the unique Greek landscape.
The reintroduction and universal application of the institution of "Building Withdrawal", especially in ecologically sensitive areas, such as islands.
Introduction of architecture in all public works.
Adoption of monuments by schools, associations, municipalities or other bodies.
PROMOTION AND PROTECTION OF CULTURAL HERITAGE
PASOK sets the following objectives for the promotion and protection of cultural heritage:
Archaeological sites and museums open in the morning and afternoon hours in order to attract and serve citizens and increase the number of visitors in line with the standards of advanced European countries.
A new policy for the country's museums that will free up their resources, that will allow them to develop initiatives and inform about their exhibits and activities, that will bring the public and even the younger age groups closer together.
PASOK seeks the autonomy, independence and interdisciplinary planning of the Museums, considering their public character non-negotiable.
Programmes and interventions for the enhancement of archaeological and historical sites with soft and didactic interventions and with the use of modern technology.
Attractive programmes for young people.
Opening up the Museums to youth creativity events.
Strengthen the programme for the completion of major museum infrastructure and continue the modernisation programme for regional museums.
Strengthening local-scale projects (especially those relating to local history or culture) with a focus on local communities.
CULTURE AS A COMPONENT OF EDUCATION
PASOK is taking the initiative for a new legal framework that will respond to the essential problems of today, integrating artistic education into the educational system of the country, as it deserves.
CULTURE AND MEDIA (MEDIA)
Culture's encounter with the media is a decisive factor in its relationship with the general public.
On the part of the state, this implies a specific and binding cultural programme for the media, incorporating educational and cultural programmes in the high viewership and audience zones of television and radio and the introduction of a cultural zone in news bulletins.
LOCAL COMMUNITIES AND CULTURE - INFRASTRUCTURE AND NETWORKING
Dissemination of cultural activity requires that it be supported at local level.
We are proposing a new kind of cooperation between the central state and local governments and in this direction we foresee:
Creation and implementation of programs and actions with a fair redistribution of resources, in cooperation with the Local Government and the Regional Universities.
The aim is to support creators in every local community.
Activating the idea of cultural volunteering that will highlight citizens' initiatives either for the protection of cultural heritage or for the development of creativity, with the introduction of institutions of excellence.
Staffing of regional cultural institutions with merit-based procedures and quality criteria.
Consistency of the state in its financial obligations.
Strengthening and expanding the Regional Arts Networks (DIPETHEs, film clubs, conservatories, libraries, reading clubs, art workshops).
Obligation of public cultural institutions (e.g. National Theatre, State Orchestras) to be present in the region on a regular basis.
Creating conditions for networking of regional cultural structures in order to ensure communication and cooperation between them.
4.3. MASS SPORT
Our central goal is sport for all.
To restructure the model of sport in our country through the triptych of Long-term national planning, Decentralised sports administration, Strengthening of club sport.
Our Policies:
Linking Club Sport with school and municipal sports organisations.
Establishment of permanent cooperation between the State and the Federations in order to have a long-term planning and control in the implementation of the planning.
Four-year planning per federation so that grants are adequate, rational, transparent and objective.
Development of Mass Sports.
Promotion of lifelong sport, introduction of the Athlete's Card, establishment of a National Body for mass sport, opening of the Olympic Facilities to citizens, introduction of sports activities in the workplace, sports programmes for sensitive social groups, creation of special programmes for all ages.
Adequate funding from the state for these actions is a key objective of the next administration.
Supporting School Sport. Institutional upgrading of physical education and sport.
Inclusion of Physical Education in the kindergarten curriculum.
Respect for the property of the Greek people.
Protecting the right to sport and good infrastructure.
Utilization of the Olympic properties based on the specific needs of each region, its residents and where necessary the participation of private initiative with a view to development and the environment.
Completion and creation of sports infrastructure in the Region, as a continuation of the "Greece 2004" programme.
Changing the institutional framework for clean sport.
Development of Tourism Sport.
Proper utilization of our Olympic and other sports facilities, which in combination with the classical sports heritage of Ancient Olympia will become a strong attraction for tourism and sports.
5. THE POLITICAL SYSTEM AND THE STATE AT THE SERVICE OF THE CITIZEN
The radical restructuring of the state and the political system was and remains the number one challenge for the future and the prospects of our country.
It requires the reorganization of the state, the
administration and local government, the
strengthening of democratic institutions, the
restoration of the independence of the judiciary, the
strengthening of independent authorities.
A plan for radical change is needed to tackle corruption, to
establish conditions of transparency and accountability in the exercise of power
and to restore the autonomy of the political system.
PASOK proposes a coherent and comprehensive plan for the democratic reorganisation of the state and the political system, which is a prerequisite for supporting green growth, ensuring social justice, investing in education, health and culture.
A rule of law that guarantees the unhindered exercise of the rights and freedoms of all citizens.
5.1. CHANGING THE POLITICAL SYSTEM TO ENSURE POLITICAL AUTONOMY AND STRENGTHEN DEMOCRACY
PASOK's primary concern is to address the political crisis.
Our initiatives create the conditions to safeguard the autonomy of politics,
to upgrade parliament
and strengthen representative democracy with participatory institutions, and to
establish strict rules of transparency.
From the first 100 days, we are committed to take immediate measures to restore citizens' confidence in the institutions, the state and the political system.
The measures we will take, while not costly, will contribute decisively in this direction: a
new Electoral Law combining single-member districts and a regional list, drastically limiting electoral expenditure.
Reform of the institution of the institution of the "behind the scenes", so that assets that are not declared are confiscated in favour of the State.
Posting on the internet of all ministerial signatures and all public and local government acts.
Drastic measures to control political money, with the reconstitution of the Parliamentary Control Committee.
THE UPGRADING OF THE PARLIAMENT
We are committed to enhancing the prestige of the Parliament and its Members through the following measures:
Public Consultation: Establish a mandatory public consultation stage for every draft law.
Submission of all bills to two readings, i.e. two procedures before the competent committee before they come for debate and vote in the Plenary of the House.
Quality Control: Every draft law must be accompanied by a mandatory quality report, which includes a detailed assessment based on a list of criteria and an assessment of the impact of the law.
Amendments: We propose that the Rules of the House be amended to provide that amendments cannot be tabled after the debate before the House committee has concluded.
Effective control of financial management through meaningful discussion in all relevant Committees during the process of submission and discussion of the Annual Budget, the "Report" and the "Audit Report".
ELECTORAL SYSTEM
With our initiative we seek:
to strengthen the autonomy of politics, and its independence from business, communication and other centres of undue influence;
to ensure the independence and dignity of MPs and their upgrading by drastically limiting electoral expenditure and personal rivalries.
Our proposal is a clear and simple electoral system based on specific principles:
a multi-party composition of the Parliament
, stable governments,
strengthening the role and prestige of the MP by ensuring his independence from vested interests and freeing him from the pressure of clientelism.
The core of the proposal is the introduction of an electoral system combining single-member and multi-member districts.
The territory is divided into single-member constituencies in which a certain number of MPs are elected.
The remaining number is divided into polyhedral broad regions.
TRANSPARENCY EVERYWHERE
PASOK proposes a National Transparency Programme for the fight against corruption as a basis for bipartisan consultation.
In this context, we propose the establishment of a National Transparency Commission, which will submit proposals to all the political forces of the country.
PASOK in the National Transparency Programme is committed to:
Transparency in political funding The
sources of funding of political parties and politicians must be evident in all cases,
but also the prohibition or restriction of high-cost activities and their substitution by the free provision of opportunities for access to the media.
The mainstay of funding is public funding.
Private funding is based on contributions from members and friends.
All contributions must always be made in nominal amounts through bank accounts.
The control of the parties' income and expenses, election expenses and the politicians' background is carried out by the Audit Committee of the Parliament, in accordance with the current Constitution.
However, it is proposed to reconstitute this Commission, with an increase in the number of non-parliamentary members, until the Constitutional Review, whereby we propose that the control be entrusted to an Independent Authority.
For those filing a tax return who are found not to have declared their assets, these assets will be seized in favour of the state.
Transparency in Public Works and Procurement
Establishment of a universal obligation to publish on the internet the acts of all public bodies concerning procurement, provision of services to the public sector, assignments or financing.
Introduction of a mandatory public consultation stage before the contracting authority before issuing notices of major public contracts.
Control of the arms programmes by the Parliament, in a committee of which they will be submitted for discussion, in order to have a detailed presentation of the procedures to be followed for their implementation.
Establishment of an Independent Authority to introduce transparency in public sector procurement and works procedures.
The control of contracts of high economic value is the responsibility of the Court of Auditors.
Transparency in Public Administration The
administration's obligation to publish on the internet all administrative acts that are not confidential and do not affect personal data.
Publication via the Internet of all Ministerial Decisions, as well as the decisions of the country's Administrative, Local Government and Economic bodies.
Systematic use of the annual reports of the Ombudsman, the Court of Auditors and the Public Administration Auditors.
Consolidation of the audit mechanisms through the establishment of a single body of inspectors - auditors of the Public Administration with internal sectoral specialisation.
PARTICIPATORY INSTITUTIONS AND ACCOUNTABILITY
Introduction of "Consultation" as an institution for citizens' participation in major decisions of the country's institutions.
Public consultation can be scaled up from the decisions of municipal councils to the passing of laws by Parliament.
Accountability of all public bodies and all institutions, elected by the people at regular intervals.
For each executive who assumes a managerial political position, his/her assets (e.g. the E9 form) are disclosed upon assuming office and at the end of his/her term of office.
RELATIONS BETWEEN THE STATE AND THE CHURCH
Our aim is to regulate the relations between the state and the church, leading to the clarification of their distinct roles.
A regulation that will free the church from state dependencies alien to its spiritual and social mission and the state from practices alien to European constitutional culture.
CIVIL SOCIETY, NON-GOVERNMENTAL ORGANISATIONS AND VOLUNTEERING
Strengthening civil society is a fundamental objective of our policy.
We promote:
The creation of a comprehensive legislative framework and a National Register for NGOs to ensure transparency and meritocracy, the regulation of relations between NGOs and the public sector, as well as the prevention of any possible manipulation by state, government or commercial entities.
Their financial support with rules of transparency, representativeness, accountability and meritocracy.
MEDIA AND POLITICS - A RELATIONSHIP OF AUTONOMY AND TRANSPARENCY
Freedom of expression and the right to information is the foundation of democracy and a prerequisite for the control and transparency of political and economic activity.
We promote the:
Immediate licensing of television and radio stations for digital broadcasting, with a simultaneous obligation for those already broadcasting and licensed to broadcast in analogue mode until its final abolition (2012).
This new licensing must be combined with a comprehensive restructuring of the current broadcasting landscape in order to ensure transparent, objective and realistic criteria, to set conditions that guarantee economic viability
and to fully implement the constitutional principles of equality, objectivity and quality as well as the protection of human dignity, childhood and youth.
Strengthening and consolidating the cooperation between the National Broadcasting Council (NCR) and the National Telecommunications and Postal Commission (EETT), in order to achieve a full and effective transition to the digital era.
Strengthening the role and presence of public television, with a view to improving its quality and its contribution to information, dialogue, education and culture.
Transparency and effective control over the finances of public television, and control of the sources and flow of money, as well as the viability of private media.
Transparency and rational distribution of state advertising and the advertising expenditure of public enterprises and organisations.
Developing regional SMEs and upgrading them through a clarified institutional environment to ensure their sustainability and independence.
Implement a modern regulatory framework for the operation of public opinion polling bodies to ensure the reliability of measurements.
5.2. CHANGING THE FUNCTIONING OF THE STATE FOR A PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION AND SELF-GOVERNMENT AT THE SERVICE OF THE CITIZEN
Today PASOK continues to proclaim the need for a new radical administrative reform.
The cornerstone of a deep, substantial and democratic change in the country's administrative system is, first of all, a change in the central state and its structures
and the strengthening and upgrading of local government.
THE NEW ARCHITECTURE OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE SYSTEM
We are forming a simple, distinct and decentralised structure to bring power closer to the citizen, which includes:
An executive state - headquarters, managing the necessary national policies.
Other public functions are transferred to the regional administration at both levels of government.
Primary self-government with strong municipalities, which will emerge after a new wave of mergers and will have as their main mission - beyond the acquis of local development - the provision of high quality services to citizens.
Regional government, with an elected regional council and an elected regional governor.
Its main mission is regional development
THE NEW MAP OF SELF-GOVERNMENT
The first level of self-government consists of the strong municipalities.
A strong municipality can emerge from ensuring its real economic self-sufficiency, strengthening its administrative mechanisms and reconstituting its human geographic units.
But reconstitution based on specific and clear criteria and after a broad national dialogue and consensus.
Island and mountain areas need to be carefully planned.
For islands in particular, the principle of each island and municipality will apply, with the exception of the large islands.
The second level of self-government consists of the elected Regional Governments.
The elected Regional Government is headed by an elected Regional Governor and an elected Regional Council.
Prefectures operate in the form of "Prefectural Departments" of the region concerned.
It goes without saying that the proportional representation of the prefectures in the composition of the elected Regional Council is ensured.
The creation of metropolitan self-government is required in order to address the acute problems that cut across many regions and municipalities of large metropolitan urban centres.
The first priority move to strengthen Regional Authorities is to entrust them with the management of the CIPs, i.e. the Regional Programmes.
The constitutional principle that the exercise of the powers of self-government is accompanied by the provision of the necessary financial resources is fully and consistently applied.
It proposes fiscal decentralisation without additional taxes and the clear definition of the resources of the local government, in order to ensure in practice the effective autonomy of the two levels of government.
Fiscal decentralisation will be accompanied by administrative and social control mechanisms for the management of local government resources.
A Cohesion Fund is created to support weak local authorities.
The current electoral system with the 42% requirement is abolished and the previous electoral system is restored for both levels of self-government.
REFORM OF THE PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION
Separation of executive and executive responsibilities.
The headquarters state presupposes ministries and headquarters, which will be mainly concerned with the formulation of the specific political framework of administrative action that is their responsibility.
The implementation of their policy will be carried out by the decentralised public services and local government, with appropriate oversight mechanisms in place.
Integrated Citizen Service Offices.
Upgrading of the CCPs into integrated service centres.
The citizen for any transaction with the State addresses a single office of the Administration (one-stop office), which is a communication hub connected to all services at the county or regional level.
This office undertakes to process all the relevant documents without the need to move to any other office.
Changing the system of administrative controls for state licensing.
We are implementing the principle of public administration's trust in citizens.
We are replacing certificates and attestations with the citizen's solemn declaration, while introducing severe penalties for false declarations.
Simplification of procedures.
The project is part of a broader plan to implement the principle of "one case, one official, one signature".
Universal electronic communication between public services, and between citizens and all public authorities, is part of the same plan.
The professional outline of the jobs.
A description of the duties of each post and the qualifications required for it as a prerequisite for rationalising the human resources management system.
Human resources management.
Establish the principle of mobility of civil servants in the central executive administration.
Examination, after dialogue with ADEDY, of the possibility of the inclusion of civil servants in the legal entity of the State in general and not in each individual Ministry.
This change makes it easier to treat staff with uniform principles, rules, rights and obligations and facilitates the rational allocation of staff.
Establishment of a New - Single Salary Schedule for civil servants after consultation, with uniform principles and transparency, gradual integration of all benefits into the basic salary, and restoration of inequalities and injustices.
We want the young people of our country to break away from the dream of client networks and enter the public sector on merit: we owe it to them.
We want the civil servant to be a real public servant, shielded by the political leadership with independence and dignity, a real protagonist and producer of public life.
We establish:
An annual multimodal competition for admission to the public service with a combination of points and written examinations.
The competition will cover all specialities and will be valid throughout the year.
Work contracts with natural persons shall be abolished with the necessary transitional stage for those already in service.
All procedures without exception are carried out by the AESEP.
We design and implement new personnel policies in the public sector that objectively and meritocratically evaluate the work offered, encourage fairness, reward the skills acquired and reward the work produced.
The task of evaluation is entrusted to the National Centre for Public Administration and Self-Government, which is being upgraded for this major purpose and includes all existing educational structures of the public sector.
THE INDEPENDENT AUTHORITIES
The Independent Authorities, such as the Ombudsman, the AΣEP, the Personal Data Protection Authority, etc., are important arms of the exercise of public authority in critical areas of protection of individual rights
and safeguarding fundamental principles of public administration, such as meritocracy and equal treatment of citizens.
Their establishment and strengthening constitute important progressive breakthroughs in our modern institutional history.
The Independent Authorities have an important guarantee role for citizens and their rights and their organisational, staffing and technical infrastructure must be strengthened.
All Independent Authorities should be treated with the same criteria, in terms of the selection of their leadership and the guarantees of their personal and functional independence and in terms of their reinforcement, whether provided for by the Constitution or by law.
At the same time, we are committed to strengthening the accountability of the Independent Authorities to Parliament, so that their democratic legitimacy is unquestionable.
E-GOVERNMENT AT THE SERVICE OF THE CITIZEN
E-government means transparency, simplification for the citizen, speed of service where there is inconvenience.
Our vision is a new model of open governance with citizens as active and co-designers of policies.
Our digital commitment refers to actions and initiatives across the spectrum of the Administration of Society and the Economy, in a national plan that includes the adaptation of the state to the challenges of the digital era and the redefinition of the country's development policy.
Citizens need simplified and friendly eGovernment services in areas directly related to their daily lives.
Services that should be recorded in an electronic "transaction booklet" so that every citizen has full control over the services provided by the public sector.
Services that provide access to the National Health System, Social Security, the Education System and all the Information Systems of the Public Administration in a single, simple and friendly way, ensuring the protection of personal data.
In the framework of PASOK's Digital Growth policy, we support the creation of new digital goods with the following three interventions:
Development of open broadband infrastructure, which is essential for quality education, green growth and more efficient administration, and will provide cheap and fast connections to households, schools and universities, to all public administration and businesses, in all cities and villages of our country.
Our country today needs a major telecommunications infrastructure development project that will provide fibre optic connections to homes, businesses and all buildings housing public sector services in all cities across the country.
Introducing Open Standards and Open Software services in education and public administration.
Open standards and interoperability will contribute to the productive use of eGovernment applications by the Public Administration.
Interoperability and open standards are the framework for the organisation of National Registries and the basis for the certification of all applications and their use in a secure way by all citizens.
Public digital content.
Public content is the data, information, administrative acts and decisions of the Ministries, but also all studies, research and cultural content funded by national resources.
All public content will gradually be made freely available through a decentralised online platform, digitally organised and providing data to citizens, covering all public sector activities.
Interventions are linked to specific policy choices and are guided by the objective of safeguarding and enhancing public goods.
They not only aim at better management but also serve the value and ideological framework of PASOK.
The design and implementation of these interventions is a priority because:
They empower the citizen in the Digital Age
They mobilize the whole country, i.e., administration, citizens and businesses
They overturn conservative logics and choices that have led us to delay
They contribute to the formation of a new development vision
They dynamically integrate the isolated regions of Greece into the Digital Age
They concern all citizens and residents of the country without exclusion and discrimination
These interventions ensure the Public Interest by setting rules,
implementing infrastructure
and imposing regulations.
They provide public goods, enhance citizens' rights and ensure the redistribution of Digital Wealth.
5.3. CHANGE PUBLIC POLICY TO MAKE CITIZENS FEEL SAFE AND PROTECT THEIR FREEDOMS
Our main objective is the security of the citizen without any reduction in his/her freedoms and individual rights.
With the creation of a new Ministry of Citizen Protection, which will include public security, the Fire Brigade and civil protection.
With the Police, the Fire Brigade and the Coast Guard respecting the citizen and at the same time earning his respect.
With Security Bodies that ensure that citizens receive immediate assistance when and where they need it.
We want a society of active citizens, free not only from the danger of crime but also from fear.
With the state at the service of citizens' security.
THE POLICE
It is an urgent priority to formulate a comprehensive and coherent plan for the radical reorganization of the ELAS, with the aim of creating a modern police force that will ensure public order for the benefit of citizens and will perform its social role with respect to the Constitution, the European Convention on Human Rights and the principle of legality.
Freeing police forces from performing tasks, mainly of an administrative nature, which are not related to their mission and work.
A beneficial consequence of this measure will be the constant presence of pedestrians and seasonal patrols in the neighbourhood, in order to instil a sense of security among citizens.
A complete reorganisation of police studies and training.
The Police Academy will be upgraded, providing high quality theoretical studies.
Establishment of Model Centres for further education and lifelong learning in all the headquarters of the country's regions.
Establishment of an Institute of Anticrime and Security Policy of international scientific standing.
Change in the way the leadership of the Greek Police is selected.
The objective, non-partisan selection of the leadership of the ELAS will also help in the management of the human resources of the Corps according to meritocratic criteria.
Radical change in the administrative structure and operation of the Greek Police.
The administrative structure of ELAS, like that of the other Security Corps, must correspond to the new administrative structure of the country.
The central level corresponds to the ELAS headquarters, which will be a purely staff and coordinating body.
At the regional level, the General Police Directorate of the region will function as a regional headquarters and will have full responsibility for policing the region.
At the level of the municipalities, the new police structure will ensure the existence of foot and seasonal patrols, operating on a 24-hour basis.
Upgrading of the logistical infrastructure.
Funding a programme to modernise the equipment used by the ELAS and upgrade the logistical infrastructure.
CIVIL PROTECTION AND FIRE BRIGADE
Restructuring and modernisation of the Civil Protection system.
The Fire Brigade is the main arm of Civil Protection and the most important fire protection body in the country.
Submission of all volunteers to Civil Protection.
Certification in firefighting-rescue by the Fire Academy and their integration into the service planning of the Fire Brigade.
Modernization and restructuring of the Fire Brigade which includes the study and re-evaluation of the operation of all services and echelons according to specific criteria (population, forest areas, industrial facilities, decentralization according to the new administrative structure of the country, recruitment through the system of national examinations, upgrading of the Fire Academy.
Strongly reward the work experience of seasonal firefighters, so that those who qualify for tenure can occupy vacant organic positions.
5.4. WE HAVE MADE CHANGES TO THE JUDICIARY TO ENSURE ITS INDEPENDENCE AND SPEED UP ITS ADMINISTRATION
We want an independent justice system with speed, quality and transparency in its administration,
and effective access to a fair trial for citizens.
Our primary objective is the right to timely and effective judicial protection, which is the foundation of the rule of law.
The drastic acceleration and simplification of procedural procedures is a prerequisite for an efficient, modern and functional state at the service of the citizen.
Justice is experiencing a long and deep crisis that can only be addressed through bold interventions in all areas.
In particular:
INDEPENDENCE OF THE JUDICIARY
A change in the way the leadership of the judiciary is selected, ensuring that the judiciary is free from the influence of the executive.
Under the current Constitution, the selection of the leadership of the Supreme Courts is the responsibility of the Council of Ministers, but we propose that the Parliament be involved in the process.
Ensuring the internal independence of the judiciary by establishing permanent, stable and objective criteria for any change of service and by providing specific reasons for all decisions of the Supreme Judicial Council.
Removal of any restriction on the institution of the autonomy of the courts, while avoiding sterile paraplegia.
CONSOLIDATION OF THE PRINCIPLE OF EQUAL TREATMENT IN THE ADMINISTRATION OF JUSTICE
Repeal or amend all laws that provide for unequal treatment.
Amend the constitutional provision and its implementing law on the responsibility of Ministers, in order to restore citizens' confidence in the political system.
The guiding principles of the amendment should be the extension of the statute of limitations for ministerial crimes, the disengagement of the Parliament from the Preliminary Inquiry, the conduct of which should be entrusted to the Judiciary and finally the conduct of the trial in the Special Court, as established by the current Article 86 of the Constitution.
In this direction, until the revision of the Constitution, the Rules of the Parliament and every possibility to change them should be exploited.
IMPROVEMENT OF THE CONDITIONS OF ACCESS TO JUSTICE
Immediate implementation of the legislative provision for the establishment and operation of judicial police in all major prosecutor's offices in the country.
Broad decriminalisation of minor offences and replacement of penalties in these cases by administrative sanctions.
Fill all vacant posts of judges and prosecutors at all ranks, and gradually increase the number of posts of judges.
Immediate activation of the state to amend or simplify legislation when an issue has been decided by a supreme court.
Substantially strengthen out-of-court institutions so that as many disputes as possible are resolved outside the courtroom.
ADDRESSING INTERNAL INCONSISTENCIES IN THE LEGISLATION - CODIFICATION
Repeated changes in legislation have created contradictions that violate the constitutionally enshrined principle of proportionality.
PASOK will immediately proceed with the establishment of 3 committees - on civil, administrative and criminal law - with the aim of identifying and correcting all these contradictions.
Our priority is also to codify legislation.
5.5. PROTECTING HUMAN RIGHTS
We want a state that places the unhindered exercise of the rights and freedoms of all citizens, regardless of their national origin, religious or political beliefs and sexual orientation, as the cornerstone of its policy.
IMMIGRATION POLICY
PASOK will systematically pursue a dual policy: First, respect for human rights guaranteed by Greek and international legislation and the humanitarian values that characterize a socialist party,
and second, safeguarding the borders and preventing illegal entry of immigrants
safeguarding public order by suppressing illegal activities both by immigrants and by anyone who benefits from the illegal status of immigrants.
PASOK believes in the contribution of immigrants to the economic, social and political life of our country.
It clearly declares its firm and non-negotiable will to intervene on issues concerning migrants on the following central axes:
Active social and economic integration policies
Rationalisation of the procedure for granting Greek citizenship in accordance with the principles of the rule of law.
The acquisition of Greek citizenship for all children of immigrants who live in Greece for a minimum number of years and who are born in Greece.
As well as, after completing three years in Greek education, for all other children who are students in our country.
Facilitate the granting of long-term resident status and encourage family reunification by relaxing existing restrictions.
Adopt permanent procedures for the return to regularity of migrants who fall out of regularity for formal reasons.
Adopt a framework that will facilitate the maintenance of legal residence status.
Designing policies aimed at the social integration of migrants.
Establishment in each municipality of an advisory body with the participation of migrants or migrant organisations.
Access to health care, welfare support structures that have been developed in all municipalities, crèches, counselling structures, etc. for the family of each migrant.
Designing educational measures that will ensure the integration of children into the education system and through this the integration into society.
Learning the Greek language, through structures that allow the immigrant to work in parallel in places that the local government must ensure.
Participation of migrants in the productive process of the country under the same conditions as other workers and facilitating their social integration through political activation and participation.
Avoiding any kind of ghetto, providing incentives for the dispersion of migrants in the city based on a settlement strategy, overall upgrading of the city centre on the initiative of the state and local government, cooperation between public authorities and social and voluntary organisations, the church and local government with the aim of providing temporary and permanent housing for migrants through short and long-term housing programmes within the urban fabric.
Policy on Asylum
Full and timely harmonisation of national law with all Community Directives, implementation of international conventions and Greek procedural law and simplification of the procedure for access to the application for political asylum.
Ensuring basic guarantees for the whole process.
Decent living conditions for asylum seekers in reception centres, creation of special places for children and women, social support for unaccompanied minor refugees.
Providing asylum to proven victims of torture, rape or other forms of moral, physical or sexual violence.
A political initiative and an active role of Greece in the European Institutional Bodies in the direction of the revision of the Dublin II Regulation, in order to achieve the equal assumption of responsibility by all European Member States.
Policies to tackle illegal immigration
Strengthening border management
and effectively lobbying the European Union for further resources and support to protect our common borders.
Implementation of international and bilateral agreements - in particular the readmission protocol we signed and implemented previously with Turkey.
Illegally entering and residing aliens in Greece, who have not developed strong ties with the country, should be removed from the country, without this invalidating the right of all those who wish to do so to apply for asylum.
The conditions of temporary residence, in specific places or accommodation centres, should be considered, with the imposition of restrictive conditions,
but undoubtedly also with the parallel recognition of specific rights that will guarantee them humane living conditions.
Particular care will be taken with regard to the treatment of minors and other vulnerable population groups in particular.
Specifically:
Permanent closure of inappropriate facilities used as detention centres, creation of new centres that meet international standards.
Re-evaluate the administrative detention limit for aliens subject to deportation, which should be limited to what is strictly necessary.
Immediately abolish the measure of administrative detention for unaccompanied minors and replace it with the measure of accommodation.
Immediate abolition of the measure of issuing an administrative deportation order to minors.
Provision of special requirements for the granting of a temporary legal residence document, for a period of one year, to foreigners whose deportation is not feasible.
Effectively combating trafficking in human beings and the
exploitation and organised and common crime circuits linked to illegal immigration.
International cooperation - Tackling the drivers of migration in the countries of origin themselves.
PONTIAN RETURNEES
The PASOK governments drafted and began to implement an important project for this much-affected part of Hellenism, which was, however, violently interrupted by the New Democracy.
Having opened a wide field of dialogue with our expatriates, we are aware of their problems and we are committed to working along the following lines:
Simplification and streamlining of the procedures for granting Greek citizenship.
Adoption of a regulation to avoid deportations of expatriates who have applied for Greek citizenship.
Reactivate and complete the housing rehabilitation programme.
Examination of the sensitive aspects of their insurance problem.
Developing specific programmes to tackle unemployment.
THRACE MINORITY
The equal and effective presence of the Muslim minority of Thrace in social life and the development of the whole region is our priority.
We believe that the development of the minority is inextricably linked to the overall prosperity of the region.
The guarantee of the inviolable operation of the rules of equality for all citizens is a matter of principle.
6. A STRONG OPEN HORIZON GREECE
6.1. MAKE GREECE A LEADING PLAYER IN INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENTS AGAIN
We are adopting and picking up the thread of a foreign policy that intervenes in all major international developments, effectively defends our national rights, and gives Greece a voice and negotiating power.
Greece is called upon to rediscover its own identity, its own role.
For us, it is a clear path.
Greece is winning as a country of values.
A country that defends principles, international law and human rights, through which we safeguard our own integrity and security.
We represent a Greece that strategically exploits the changes in the modern world in order to broaden the scope for movement and alliances.
A Greece that will make clear to all that its sovereign rights are non-negotiable.
NEW NATIONAL STRATEGY
The strategy, which was formulated and implemented by the PASOK governments, has borne fruit for our country and for the entire region.
The accession of Cyprus to the EU, the Stabilisation and Association Agreements between the Western Balkan states and the EU, the decisions of the Thessaloniki Summit during the Greek Presidency in 2003 on the European course of the Western Balkan states, the election of Greece to the UN Security Council are the prime examples of these successes.
The strong Greece of an active presence in European and international developments, of participation in the shaping of international decisions and the peaceful resolution of problems, of realism and dynamic extroversion, has been and will be for PASOK the constant strategic goal.
PASOK is committed to implementing this new national strategy of problem-solving, peace and development, always in consultation with the other political forces of the country and with the utilisation and upgrading of all the institutional possibilities provided by our political system and, above all, by the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee of the Parliament and the National Council for Foreign Policy.
EUROPEAN UNION
For Greece, the European Union is a privileged strategic field for defending national interests and co-designing policies that have a decisive impact on the daily life of citizens.
For PASOK, the European Union is the political space of tough inter-negotiations, confrontations and promotional compromises, where nothing is given away to anyone, and where the countries and governments that win are those that have a strategy, knowledge of the complex problems and the ability to exploit the correlations for the formation of favourable alliances.
PASOK guarantees the redefinition of our country's European strategy in order to regain a strong voice, presence and prestige in Europe.
We firmly support the Europe of Democracy and Participation, Green Growth, Solidarity, Economic and Social Cohesion.
A Europe of diversity and civilisation that respects and is strengthened by the cultural, religious and national traditions of its peoples.
Europe playing a strong role on the international stage for peace, cooperation and the regulation of globalisation.
We supported in Parliament the Lisbon Treaty as a step that improves the current institutional framework of the European Union, in the direction of the political unification of Europe.
At the same time, we criticized, because even greater changes are necessary in the direction of a truly Democratic and Social Europe.
We demand an increase in the Community Budget's own resources to at least 1.2% of European GDP, guaranteeing the necessary financing of green growth, cohesion, regional development and employment, research, innovation and investment in human capital.
We support:
enhancing the role of the European Parliament and national parliaments
and making use of the Lisbon Treaty's provisions that strengthen participation, such as the citizens' legislative initiative and referendums.
the revision of the Stability and Growth Pact with an update of the conditions and new specifications that would exclude from the measurement of the allowable deficit public productive expenditure, investment in education and green growth, as well as defence spending.
the establishment of a European Employment Pact, a "Social Maastricht" with measurable binding targets for employment and growth.
the development of a European Strategy for Green Growth and Jobs.
the consolidation of a Social Europe that guarantees full employment, social protection and solidarity.
It safeguards and strengthens social rights and collective bargaining at national and European level.
the functioning of the European Internal Market with rules and regulations that ensure healthy competition,
public social goods,
consumer protection
and the environment.
the establishment of a modern, sustainable Common Agricultural Policy.
Our priority is the active participation of our country in the negotiations for the new European model of rural development after 2013, aiming at supporting farmers' income and agricultural production, maintaining the Community character and adequate funding of the CAP;
the formulation and implementation of a truly common Foreign and Security Policy,
and the use of the Lisbon Treaty and its provisions (military assistance clause, solidarity clause) for the protection of national interests.
RESOLUTION OF THE CYPRUS PROBLEM
The Cyprus problem is the result of a military invasion and illegal occupation by Turkey.
PASOK pledges that it will continue to fight with all its forces for the resolution of the Cyprus problem, supporting the Republic of Cyprus, on the basis of a bizonal, bicommunal federation, in accordance with UN resolutions, EU treaties and principles and with full respect for the European Community acquis.
Preventing the permanent partition of the Megalonissos by any means is a major and permanent priority for PASOK.
The PASOK government will, once again, stand by Cyprus and the Cypriot people, with actions and not just words.
PASOK, as a patriotic Movement, has consistently followed the policy of respecting the decisions of the Cypriot leadership and supporting them at the international level.
PASOK, among other things, will undertake, as a government, an international initiative for the withdrawal of occupation troops from Cyprus.
The EU has no place for occupying troops.
Finally, our demand that Turkey immediately implement the Customs Union Protocol and recognise the Republic of Cyprus as it should, remains our priority.
GREEK-TURKISH RELATIONS
PASOK consistently supports a policy towards Turkey for the consolidation of a climate of mutual trust and its European perspective and proposes a New National Strategy for peace and security in the region.
For PASOK, support for Turkey's European course was not and is not a blank cheque.
Turkey must fulfil in full all the obligations it has undertaken as a candidate country towards the EU and all its Member States,
among others in particular:
its obligation to contribute constructively to the settlement of the Cyprus problem, within the framework of the UN decisions, the European Treaties and in full respect of the acquis communautaire
the full implementation of the Customs Union with the EU as far as the Republic of Cyprus is concerned.
its obligation, like any candidate country for EU membership, to adopt and implement the European acquis, which includes the international treaties binding on the European Union, including the Convention on the Law of the Sea.
the resolution of the issue of the delimitation of the continental shelf through a compulsory recourse to the International Court of Justice in The Hague.
the reopening of the Theological School of Halki.
the recognition of the Ecumenical role of the Patriarchate
respect for the rights of the Greek minority in Istanbul, Imbros and Tenedos.
It is on the basis of the fulfilment of these obligations that all the next stages of Turkey's European course and its relations with the EU will be assessed.
SOUTH-EASTERN EUROPE
PASOK is committed to making Greece once again the "locomotive" of the Euro-Pacific course of the Balkan countries and to complete what it started with the "Thessaloniki Strategy" in 2003, as the only credible strategy for stability, security and the European solution of the region's problems.
In this direction, Greece's cooperation with both Bulgaria and Romania is absolutely essential.
In this context, we will also call on Skopje to abandon the path of intransigence they have chosen and to realize their real interest and future in the EU and the Euro-Atlantic institutions.
PASOK, through its initiatives in the framework of national understanding, contributed decisively to the definition of the "national red line" in order to resolve the problem of the name of FYROM: a complex name, with geographical designation, for all uses.
GREECE IN THE INTERNATIONAL SCENE
PASOK is committed to restoring the international prestige of the country, which has been damaged by the lack of foreign policy of the New Democracy Government.
In this context, the PASOK Government will work systematically for the democratisation of globalisation.
We will bring Greece back to the forefront of the international movement to address the causes and consequences of climate change, the
eradication of poverty, the
non-proliferation of nuclear weapons, the
limitation of the uncontrolled spending of money on armaments, for the benefit of education and health, the
fight for the respect of human rights without exception, the
fight for Fair Trade and not just Free Trade, the
fight for decent jobs for every citizen of the world, the fight
against the consequences of the AIDS plague, especially on the African continent.
We aim to form a multilateral system of global governance, democratically legitimised, with an upgraded UN at its centre.
Unilateral interventions perpetuate the problem, fuel violence and undermine the peaceful coexistence of cultures.
Parity relations with the major and emerging world powers.
PASOK is committed to promoting equal relations with the US, deepening relations with Russia and promoting cooperation with emerging powers such as China, India and Brazil.
The Mediterranean, Middle East and Black Sea regions are strategically important areas for strengthening our country's presence.
Peace in the Middle East and the resolution of the "Palestinian issue".
We strongly and consistently support the existence of two states, Israel and Palestine, based on mutual recognition, coexisting in peace and security.
The PASOK Government will work for the holding of an international conference on the Middle East.
The peaceful coexistence of cultures.
We use the prestige and traditional relations of the country, cultivated by the PASOK Governments, to promote the dialogue of cultures and to make Greece a bridge of understanding again.
NEW FORMS OF DIPLOMACY - INSTITUTIONAL INTERVENTIONS ON FOREIGN POLICY ISSUES
Developing new forms of diplomacy (economic and business diplomacy, humanitarian aid diplomacy, civil society and NGOs).
Upgrading the Foreign Affairs and Defence Committee of the Parliament to become a policy-making and effective control body.
Upgrading the National Council for Foreign Policy.
6.2. HIGHLIGHTING AND EXPLOITING THE POTENTIAL OF DIASPORA HELLENISM
Hellenism in the Diaspora is recognized by our Movement as a national capital for our country.
That is why, since its foundation, PASOK has developed special ties with the Hellenism of the Diaspora, placing it in its political and strategic priorities throughout time.
We will develop a specific programme of actions for the Hellenism of the Black Sea region and reactivate the institutions that concern it.
We support the operation of modern and high quality Greek schools with bilingual education by utilizing expatriates in the staffing of the administrative mechanism of education.
Strengthen the creation of new chairs of Greek studies and exploit the scientific potential of the expatriate community by establishing a network of Greek scientists around the world.
We are promoting, after consultation, the Greek Institute for the Promotion of the Greek Language, Culture and Arts.
We will strengthen relations with the younger generations of Greeks in the diaspora and create new bridges of educational, economic, business and cultural communication with the homeland.
Establishing CCPs in cities abroad is one of our priorities.
We are committed to strengthening the Greek Communities in a multifaceted and institutionalized way to help them find their footing in modern reality.
We support the institution of the Council of Hellenes Abroad and we consider it appropriate to have a broad consultation in order to review its operation in order to respond to the challenges of the new millennium in the interest of the Hellenism of the Diaspora and the country.
We support the Ecumenical Patriarchate and the other Presbyterian Patriarchates.
Their presence and action is important for Hellenism in the Diaspora.
As far as the political rights of the Expatriate Greeks are concerned, our position is clear and timeless.
We support the absentee vote of Expatriates and their effective participation in national elections by ensuring their parliamentary representation under the new electoral law.
We are committed as a government to work responsibly and wisely for the present and future of all Greeks inside and outside our borders.
6.3. NATIONAL DEFENCE - SECURITY:
UPGRADING THE EFFECTIVENESS OF THE ARMED FORCES
NEW POLICIES TO IMPROVE THE EFFECTIVENESS OF THE ARMY
Change the structure of the Armed Forces, with a reduction of units and camps.
Orientation of the Armed Forces in the areas of direct operational interest.
Strengthening intersectorality at strategic and operational level.
Improving the training and living conditions of Armed Forces personnel.
Full utilisation of weapon systems and assets and their upgrading based on comprehensive planning.
Establishing criteria and rules that will guarantee full meritocracy.
POLICIES FOR MILITARY AND CIVILIAN STAFF OF THE ARMED FORCES
Linking the development of managers to their performance by implementing a new evaluation system based on modern scientific objective criteria.
Establishment of a merit-based and transparent system of assignments - transfers.
Support for the families of the soldiers.
Improving the living conditions of personnel by gradually modernising camps and centralising units.
More civilian staff to cover more positions in support sectors of the PA, with a corresponding release of military personnel.
Operational use of young people during their period of service, depending on their qualifications, and training them in useful specialities.
Those on reduced service will serve in the nearest unit to their place of residence.
Deferments due to studies are not abolished.
DEFENCE EXPENDITURE - ARMAMENT PROGRAMMES
PASOK seeks: the
creation of a strong and effective Armed Forces,
rationalisation of expenditure, lower operating costs and maximum possible availability, as well as the full utilisation, as a matter of priority, of existing weapons systems and means.
Selection of new weapon systems and assets for the Armed Forces through an integrated strategic planning, combining operational requirements, transparency, availability of weapon systems and costs, through a rational NDEA.
A procurement procedure where the price of the supply will normally be derived from competitive tenders through competitive bidding procedures with the application of field tests according to international standards (where feasible).
Securing partnerships with the Greek Defence Industry.
NEW TECHNOLOGIES - DEFENCE INDUSTRY AND RESEARCH
Timely information of the domestic defence industry on the medium and long-term armament needs of the Greek Armed Forces, through a long-term planning and a reliable EMPA.
Modernisation of the state defence industry at technological and organisational level.
Review from scratch the institution of compensatory benefits.
The aim is transparency and the main direction is to increase the percentage of co-production of defence equipment with foreign suppliers, in order to acquire know-how and Greek Added Value.
GREEN DEVELOPMENT AND ARMED FORCES
National security, climate change and energy dependence are modern challenges that are directly linked to each other.
This will be achieved through the implementation of a specific operational programme, which sets the following objectives:
Reduction of energy consumption.
Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions through MOT-type inspections of military vehicles.
Use of Renewable Energy Sources (RES).
Creation of a joint team of officials from the Ministries of Defence, Finance and the KEDKE, which will study the prioritisation of sites to be transferred to local government, the finding of financial resources and how to secure these sites in the promotion of local "Green" development.
STRENGTHENING THE SOCIAL ROLE OF THE ARMED FORCES
The offer of the Armed Forces, in case of emergency situations (fires, earthquakes, disasters, blockades of residents, air transport, etc.) will be specialised by taking specific measures,
such as:
Creation of special engineering units, properly equipped and staffed, with means and personnel, to deal with situations arising from natural disasters.
Activate appropriately configured, equipped and staffed facilities to provide prompt and quality healthcare.
Utilisation of military health personnel for the benefit of the local population especially in isolated areas.
