The creation of Popular Unity has as its starting point the overwhelming NO of the Greek people in the referendum of July 5.
In the face of the terrorism of the dominant powers in the European Union and Greece, the great social majority, with the dynamic presence of the young, has stood up against an authentic popular revolt.
The resistance of the Greek people, unprecedented in duration and massiveness, especially in the first two years of the imposition of the memoranda, is also a great legacy for Popular Unity.
It expressed generalised resistance to the strategic plan to impose permanent austerity,
strip labour of all rights,
seize public property,
dismantle democracy
and impose a regime of limited sovereignty.
Just one month after the Greek people's "NO" in the referendum, the passing of the third Memorandum has dramatically changed the political landscape.
The leadership team of the government that emerged from the January 25 elections violently broke the social contract that linked it to the popular majority, sowing frustration and rekindling fear.
It crossed over to the other side of the Memorandum forces, bombarding the working and middle classes with new unpopular measures.
This development allowed the lenders to proceed with a political coup and the rape of any notion of popular sovereignty.
With the third Memorandum, international tutelage becomes even more suffocating, with the creation of the infamous fund, the Fund that mortgages public property and social wealth for generations, as a prime example of humiliation.
The third Memorandum is only the beginning.
Already on the agenda are the further dismantling of labour relations,
the further reduction of supplementary and main pensions to humiliating levels,
the tax raid on rural incomes and the lower and middle classes, as well as a series of other measures that will be promoted in the coming months.
It is precisely this reason, combined with the effort to avoid the formation of an anti-memorandum front of alternative policies, that prompted the government to resign and lead the country to express elections.
This is an attempt to hijack the popular vote
before the people are informed and feel in their daily lives and in their full extent the consequences of the third Memorandum.
An attempt that met with the full support of the European masters - Merkel, Juncker, Moscovici, Daizelblum -
who two months ago were trying to cancel in every way the right of democratic expression of the Greek people through a referendum.
No serious person really believes that these socially destructive measures can be effective even from a strictly fiscal point of view.
Their failure is predetermined and will lead to new packages of unpopular measures, to continue the vicious circle we have known with the previous Memorandum governments.
Workers, farmers, young people, professionals and small entrepreneurs are being destroyed just to secure the instalments of the loan "aid", which
at the same time of their disbursement go, 99% of the time, either to the lenders or to the bankers.
Not a drop falls on the real economy and the citizens who are on the brink of economic ruin.
It is a joke to expect that this leadership team, which signed the third Memorandum and has since been praised by the representatives of the lenders and the domestic oligarchy, will somehow, someday, manage to break free from it.
If you take the wrong train, all the stations you'll encounter on your journey will be wrong.
And anyone who thinks that a government that has agreed to immediately cut 93 euros a month from the poorest of the poor can take on the big interests is a heretic,
shrinking the minimum pension to the humiliating threshold of 393 euros!
For a great front of "NO to the end "For all these reasons, it has become urgent to form the Popular Unity, a political and social front to overturn the Memoranda and the exhausting austerity,
the undemocratic diversion and the transformation of Greece into a debt-driven Euro-colony.
We need a great popular, patriotic front of credibility, consistency and selflessness that will rebuild the betrayed hopes,
defeat fear and give an air of victory to the great, popular and youthful current of the "NO" of July 5.
Those who try to discredit this effort in advance by talking about the "apostasy" that supposedly brought down the "first left-wing government" are in vain.
Only those who chose to become the third Memorandum government of this country have defected from the Left.
Popular Unity is not an electoral flag of convenience, nor does it aspire to join the parties of the bankrupt political establishment.
It is a grouping of political organizations, movements and independent citizens, which aspires to express,
inspire and strengthen a real popular movement,
with initiatives of self-organization.
We want to become the voice of those who currently have no voice, the power of the weak.
We want it to be the starting point for the front that will represent the alliance of workers, the unemployed, the peasantry, the self-employed, the lower and middle classes of the city, the intelligentsia and people of culture, in the common effort to change the path of Greek society.
In this effort there is no room for hegemonic and exclusive truth logics.
There are various social sensitivities, progressive political traditions and ideological preferences.
It is a condition for the existence of this front that it should operate democratically, with the militants themselves, their demands and their aspirations at its centre.
The forces, the fighters and militants involved in Popular Unity are united in a strong political agreement for an immediate, vitally necessary, radical alternative to the Memorandum tragedy.
A solution that will work for the benefit of the popular classes, at the expense of big capital, that will free Greece from the deadly suzerainty of the imperialist centres.
We are united by the common search, through different paths, for a new society, liberated from the shackles of exploitation and all kinds of oppression,
a society of solidarity, justice and freedom, on the road to the socialism of the 21st century.
Immediate measures for the exit from the social catastropheThe immediate, basic aim of Popular Unity is to create, through the social movements and political action, inside and outside the Parliament, the conditions for a radical alternative to the present Memorandum reality.
The basic coordinates of the other way have already been defined by many left forces, radical movements and progressive scientists.
The alternative we defend attempts to provide answers to all the key problems of the economy, society, the state and foreign policy.
Of course it is not limited to the issue of monetary policy, as the fakers and sycophants who talk about the "drachma lobby" claim.
The problem with this alternative proposal is not its allegedly inadequate "technical" elaboration,
but its inadequate political preparation: the fact that it has not been discussed to the required extent within the people and social collectives.
That is, among those who will be called upon to fight hard, against huge interests, for its implementation.
We aspire to fill this gap immediately, with a major campaign of public dialogue, against those who seek to impose a new "idiom".
To demonise, even criminalise, "forbidden" debate.
The immediate, urgent measures that must be taken to open a new road are:
-The abolition of the socially and economically destructive Memoranda and the colonial, loan contracts that mortgage our future that accompany them;
-The suspension of debt payments - the unsustainability of which even the IMF, from its own point of view, recognizes - with the aim of the total cancellation of most of it.
The suspension of payments will be accompanied by political and legal actions at the international level, which will also make use of the relevant conclusion of the Truth Commission of the Parliament.
Independently, but in parallel with the international action on the debt issue, the German debts, i.e. the occupation loan and the reparations for the victims and the destruction of the Nazi atrocities, will be claimed immediately - politically, legally, mobilically - and persistently.
-The immediate end of austerity and the implementation of a policy of redistribution of social wealth for the
benefit of the working classes
and at the expense of the oligarchs.
Particular attention must be paid to the social strata hit hardest by the crisis,
by supporting their incomes
and gradually increasing minimum wages,
pensions and unemployment benefits,
ensuring health care and basic goods (electricity, water, heating) for all.
More generally, wages, pensions and social expenditure on public free education, public health and culture will be supported.
Their gradual increase will be encouraged, in line with growth rates.
The tax and other memorandum measures, which are so onerous for farmers and freelancers, will be repealed.
The ENFIA will be abolished and a tax will be introduced only on very large real estate.-The
nationalisation of banks and their operation under social control,
with absolute guarantee of people's savings.
The new, nationalised banking system, free from ECB patronage, will provide the vitally needed "seismic support" to crisis-weary households.
It will provide much needed liquidity to professionals and small or medium sized enterprises that are in danger of disappearing.
In this direction, the Agricultural Bank and the Postal Savings Bank will be reopened and the scandals of their sale will be investigated.
The nationalisation of banks will allow for an immediate and in-depth investigation of the sea loans granted to monopoly groups and tax evasion through various Lagarde-type lists.
Economic reconstruction and cultural renaissance Alongside these urgent measures, which will give a first breath of life to the economy and the popular strata, radical reforms will be promoted to change the bankrupt model of development
and reverse the social correlations in favour of the people and against the interconnected oligarchs.
These reforms include, among others:- A radical overhaul of labour legislation,
with the reintroduction of collective agreements and free collective bargaining.
Repelling employer arbitrariness,
strict limits and disincentives to dismissals,
activating and strengthening labour inspections.
A public, social, upgraded OAED
and the abolition of private companies that hire out workers;
-The creation of a stable, socially just and redistributive tax system,
so that the burden of the crisis is finally paid not by the usual underprivileged, but by the haves and have-nots.
-The end of predatory privatisations, downsizing and dismantling of companies, networks and infrastructure (PPC, gas, ports, airports, public real estate, etc.).
The immediate abolition of the Hellenic State Property Fund.
The recovery of the public property sold to private capital by annulling the illegal and unconstitutional decisions to sell it, without compensation, with the exception of small shareholders.
The nationalisation, reconstruction and operation under workers' and social control of all strategically important enterprises, networks and infrastructures, which will assume the role of the engine of the economy.
The aim is a rapid economic recovery that will create jobs,
will strengthen the position of workers
and will respect the environment.
-Reconstruction of the broken national health system,
public hospitals and a high-quality primary health care system,
accessible to all,
in the centre and the periphery.
-Fighting cultural desolation,
ensuring the public nature of cultural institutions
and access for all people to cultural creation.
Public support for every creative initiative by people of culture and citizens themselves;
-Economic reconstruction by shifting the centre of gravity a) from the consumption of imported products to production (mainly industrial and agricultural production of high quality products)
and b) from the compression of labour costs to the growth of added value.
We seek, ultimately, to move from a development that serves the usurpers of labour and nature to a development that has at its centre technological renewal, innovation,
modern organisation and,
above all, the producers of social wealth.
A development based on their knowledge, experience, passion and creativity.
To this end, a policy of democratic central and regional planning will be needed,
with the participation and co-decision of local communities,
and with a strong environmental dimension.
- The generous strengthening of public, free education and research, which is, among other things,
and a basic precondition for a productive shift towards a new, efficient social model.
- An essential component of economic reconstruction will be the "third" (alongside the state and private) sector of the social economy (cooperatives, self-managed enterprises abandoned by their owners, solidarity structures, etc.).
It will require the generous support of the public banking system and the state apparatus;
-The policy of solidarity and humanity towards refugees and economic migrants.
We will actively fight any xenophobic and racist attitude - with the extreme case of the fascist Golden Dawn -
that tends to turn the social war of capital into an ethnic "civil war" within the world of work.
We will fight against imperialist wars that exacerbate the refugee and migration problem.
We will demand the support owed to our country and the other "frontline" countries by the other, more northerly countries of Europe,
while demanding the abolition of Dublin II, which turns Greece into a prison for immigrants.
Exit from the monetary prison of the Eurozone We are fully aware that the very cancellation of the Memoranda - and even more so the structural radical changes we have described - will provoke a strong reaction from the EU's dominant powers.
They will try to strangle our project from the very first moment, with the
main lever being the cutting off of liquidity to the banks by the ECB.
We have already experienced this in the last six months, even with the much more moderate policy of the SYRIZA-ANEL government.
Therefore, the issues of exit from the Eurozone and the break with the neoliberal policies and choices of the EU, which is
following increasingly reactionary and undemocratic paths, are put on the agenda,
not as a product of some ideological obsession,
but in terms of elementary political realism.
The painful experience of the last few months has shown even the most sceptical that the dominant powers in today's German EU are neither "allies" nor "partners".
They are economic blackmailers and political rapists.
And they do not hesitate to avenge an entire people with the most ruthless version of "collective punishment" when they don't like their decisions.
The recovery of monetary sovereignty and the establishment of a national currency on new, democratic, social and developmental terms is not an end in itself.
It is one of the necessary tools for the realisation of the radical changes we have described; and for which, of course, the ultimate guarantor will not be the currency, but the struggle of the popular classes.
Despite the inevitable difficulties of the first months, nothing justifies the Cassandras who equate such a step with economic holocaust and national disaster.
In the twentieth century, 69 monetary unions collapsed on the planet, without the end of the world.
The introduction of a national currency as a prerequisite for the implementation of a progressive programme of reconstruction and a way out
is not only a viable option,
but also an option of hope that can put the country on a new, developmental trajectory.
We are not nostalgic for the capitalist Greece of the drachma.
We know that the pre-euro situation of our country was anything but a paradise for the exploited classes.
But the 13 years we have been living with the euro, especially the last ones, have not been any better:
the first seven of them were, for some parts of the population, the era of credit and consumer intoxication on the accumulated ruins of the country's productive base.
But, the next six years were the abrupt awakening from the hangover and the descent into Memorandum hell, with no light at the end of the tunnel.
It is now time to attempt a redemptive exit.
The recovery of monetary sovereignty, with the Bank of Greece's independence from the ECB,
its operation with governmental, public, social responsibility and the issuance of a national currency,
will provide the necessary liquidity to the economy,
without the onerous terms of the loan agreements.
It will decisively help to boost exports,
limit and gradually substitute imports with domestic products,
strengthen the country's productive base and boost tourism.
It will foster job creation
through a programme of necessary public productive investment,
growth initiatives for large, public enterprises,
support for the social sector of the economy
and the restoration of credit to small and medium-sized enterprises.
The abolition of the unfair tax and other burdens on small and medium incomes and businesses imposed by the Memoranda
only to service the unlivable debt
will revive demand and boost growth.
Overall, we will present and discuss a specific plan for Greece, which will implement a radical, progressive programme with a national currency.
For an equal position of Greece in the modern worldExit from the economic "prison" of the Eurozone does not mean national "self-sufficiency" and international political isolation, as our opponents falsely claim.
Instead, by initiating another path of radical change, the Greek people can become a beacon of hope for the other peoples of Europe and the world,
securing valuable sympathies, support and alliances.
The alternative path that we propose will only deprive Greece of its chains, which limit it to the role of the Euro-Atlantic "plot".
It will, however, unleash its potential to develop mutually beneficial relations with all countries that respect its sovereignty
and its decision to be friendly to all the peoples of the world, without being taken for granted by any power.
Our central direction will be a new, independent, multidimensional policy of international relations, in the energy, economic and political fields.
International relations, which will not be confined exclusively to the narrow confines of the EU.
We are pursuing an active policy of cooperation in the Mediterranean, the Balkans, the Middle East.
A policy that takes advantage of the new opportunities for mutually beneficial partnerships with the emerging powers of the BRICS, Latin America and other regions of the world.
We oppose a new "Cold War" and a new division of Europe by erecting a new wall towards Russia.
We are fighting against the imperialist choices and military adventurism of NATO.
We are committed to Greece's exit from this coalition,
a war machine that is dismantling states,
oppressing peoples
and destabilizing the wider geopolitical arc of our region, from eastern Ukraine to the Middle East.
We are fighting for the removal of the US-NATO bases,
for the non-participation of Greece in any imperialist organization.
We seek to address the problems created in Greek-Turkish relations by Ankara's demands through peaceful dialogue,
on the basis of faithful observance of international agreements, international law and especially the Law of the Sea.
We are strongly opposed to any attempt to change the borders in our region.
We reject any undermining of nationalist, chauvinist tendencies.
We are fighting for a just and viable solution to the Cyprus problem, on the basis of UN resolutions,
for an independent Cyprus, without occupying troops and foreign bases.
We consider it necessary to end military cooperation with Israel - the occupying power of foreign territories in the region -
and the immediate recognition of the State of Palestine.
We stand in solidarity with all the peoples of the world who are fighting for freedom, justice and self-determination.
The exit from the Eurozone and the implementation of a radical programme with the organised people as protagonists,
implies a path of conflict with the choices of the EU and its undemocratic, supranational organs.
Because already since the Maastricht Treaty, the process of EU formation serves the neoliberal project,
strengthens the imperialist ambitions of the leading powers and undermines popular sovereignty.
In the face of the inevitable attack of financial capital and its political representatives, the people must be ready for anything.
The issue of Greece's withdrawal from the EU can de facto be put on the agenda at any time.
In this case, we will call on the people to insist on the implementation of the progressive programme they have chosen,
by taking their decision to remain or not to remain in the EU by referendum, as has been done in other European countries.
In any case, the exit from the Eurozone and the conflict with the suffocating framework of the EU does not mean the isolation of Greece from its European environment.
We will particularly address the other peoples, social movements and progressive forces of the EU member countries with which we have long-standing economic, political and cultural ties.
We seek to contribute to the creation of a pan-European movement around objectives that express the common interests of the world of work, regardless of nationality.
The incubating Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership (TTIP) is a milestone in the EU's reactionary mutation.
An agreement that hands over public goods (water, education, health, etc.) to multinational corporations,
opens the way for genetically modified foodstuffs,
while abolishing any notion of labour law and national sovereignty that can be an obstacle to the impunity of "investors".
We will fight with all our strength, together with all the progressive movements in Europe, to prevent this abomination agreement from being ratified.
Democracy everywhere, people's powerAn essential component of our alternative proposal is the radical transformation of the state, justice and public administration.
The restoration and expansion of democratic freedoms, from the workplace to the right to demonstrate,
the dismantling of the riot police
and in general the confrontation of the mechanisms of repression of the "enemy-people",
the democratization and transparency in the media,
the decisive confrontation of corruption and interconnectedness, are the most urgent measures in this field.
At the same time, we will review the role and direction of the so-called "independent authorities" in key areas such as banking, telecommunications, energy, information, etc.
Of course, other independent authorities that can play a useful societal role, such as the ACPC, will be maintained and assisted,
with increased transparency and social control.
In addition, we will launch a broad social consultation for a fundamental revision of the Constitution
and the entire political system by a new, Constituent National Assembly, which will emerge from the next elections.
The central objective of this revision will be the establishment of a new, advanced democracy,
combining representative with direct,
effective governance with reliance on popular initiative and self-activity,
popular participation and direct popular decisions,
based on the best international practices and experiences.
For us, claiming government power is not an end in itself.
It is part of the overall objective of claiming political power by a broader popular coalition.
It serves a program for an immediate way out today, which can be imposed by a government based on the strength of the organised people and its own distinct institutions,
the labour movement, the
youth movement,
the local and environmental movements, the
solidarity movements, the forms of popular self-organisation.
The implementation of such a programme can change the social correlations
and shape the conditions for charting a different path for Greek society, with a socialist perspective.
