It is a fully democratic party, which stands for the safeguarding of popular sovereignty, which stands for justice and equality.
It is a Greek-centric party, both because it focuses on the long-term interests of the nation, the country and our people, and
because its policies are inspired by the Greek spirit, Greek values and Greek culture.
¾ It is a people-centred party, which encourages industriousness, ingenuity, meritocracy, creativity and the entrepreneurial spirit of Greek citizens.
It is a modern party that condemns and aims to prevent all the phenomena that characterize bankrupt societies, the complexity and corruption, the undue corruption, nepotism, unemployment, the underground economy, insecurity and crime.
The Declaration of 11 August
The cadres, members and friends of the Popular Orthodox Rally are fighting for the non-approval of the Euroconstitution or its counterparts
and demanding Democratic Referendums in the countries of the European Union
and oppose the idea of creating a European superstate.
We consider that, thesovereign decision-making body should remain the NATIONAL PARLIAMENT
with the simultaneous activation and possibility provided by the Constitution for referendums
We respect the language, history, culture and traditions of each nation and each state of the European Union, as well as their independence.
We oppose all forms of social marginalisation, all forms of racism, intolerance and anti-Semitism, and we fully respect all nations and religions.
The L.O.O.S. (People's Orthodox Rally) gives immediate priority to the demarcation of immigration by establishing absolute concrete rules.
Our aim and purpose will always be to ensure constitutional legitimacy
and the continuous struggle for a deep and broad democracy.
For a democracy that will protect the citizen from the arbitrariness of power and the paracenters within and outside the Territory.
7.  We declare that we will devote our efforts to the protection of Human Rights, our bio-environment and our cultural heritage.
8.  We declare our commitment to the principles of transparency and as such, we require an affirmation from each of our candidates that they are not charged with any dishonorable offenses.
9.   We strive to effectively protect our national dignity
as well as social justice.
The People's Orthodox Rally embraces all Greeks, regardless of their political affiliation, who support these principles
and rejects those who align themselves with fanaticism, arrogance, totalitarianism, globalisation and the New World Order.
Nine Big Questions and Answers about what is happening todayIs there another way for Greece out of the new, usurious, new memorandum? Yes!
A loan from the European Central Bank (ECB) at 1% interest, with a five-year grace period, followed by an annual tranche of €10 billion.
The ECB can provide us with this facility, as it did for the support of the banks, giving us €489 billion on 21/12/2011 and €530 billion on 29/2/2012 at an interest rate of only 1%, almost three times our total debt.
2) What is the English law that C. What is the issue that Karatzaferis disagreed with? It is the colonial law of the capitalist under which the lender can seize the property of the borrowing Greek government.  Such as, for example, the State's Joint Stock Company that will exploit the hydrocarbons (oil-natural gas) of our country or the Fund for the Exploitation (sale) of State Property.
3) Is the current loan sustainable? No!
Our creditors themselves admit this as they are already demanding new painful measures to be taken in June.
This is evident from the fact that although the President of the L.O.S. had requested a report from the Bank of Greece on the sustainability of the public debt after the new memorandum, it never appeared.
Just as the reports of the State Legal Council and the Court of Auditors, which were also requested, were never provided.
This is despite the fact that they have to accompany every international loan agreement that Greece signs.
4) Then why are they leading us to a dead end and a deeper recession?
Precisely to take away our Greek Treasury property, such as our gold (currently worth 20 billion Euros) which is kept in London.
Or the country's hydrocarbon assets, which is estimated to be sufficient for the full repayment of the public debt and our self-sustaining development for the next 50 years
5) Is there a real risk of default if we do not comply as Greece?
Immediately no and we say unequivocally.
The 54 billion euros in revenues foreseen in the 2012 budget are due exclusively to the internal transactions of Greeks.
So the propaganda of a catastrophic next day has no basis and all the internal payments will continue.
Moreover, and based on the current European legal economic order, there is no question of leaving the Euro.
5) And how do we develop to break the deadlock and save the country? A) By preferring as consumers only Greek products
and as employers only Greek workers to eliminate the huge trade deficit of the import-export balance.
B) By decriminalizing the re-entry of private capital abroad and abolishing the tax on construction.
C) With a fair tax system and low VAT rates unchanged for ten years
6) Is the L.O.O.S. in favour of the Memorandum?   No!
The L.A.O.S. voted only for the first article 1 of the first memorandum on the receipt of the loan from the EU and the IMF.
He voted against Article 2 on the reduction of wages and pensions and all the other 6 articles.
We voted against all the subsequent laws, such as the revision of the memorandum, the well-known medium-term and its implementing law, which the Southwest voted for 22 articles out of 30 articles.
We also voted against the corresponding October multi-bill, as well as against the waste tax.
And recently we voted against the last memorandum, remaining consistent in our stance.
7) Why did you join the government and why did you leave? We joined to put a brake on the downward slide and to prevent the country from collapsing,
setting three unconditional conditions: a) no reduction in wages and pensions
b) not to cede national sovereignty
and not to squander our mineral wealth
and c) to abolish the law that gives Greek citizenship to illegal immigrants.
These conditions were not met and we therefore left.
8) What is the political line of the L.O.S.? The national strategy for the survival of Hellenism
is our concern and patriotic interventionism is our ideology!
Greece belongs to the Greeks!
Greece is Europe, the Nation-State of the Greeks!
The coalition of patriotic forces as a third pole of political power!
National unity against both neoliberalism and Stalinist or anarchist communism.
The alliance of all Greeks to prevent the attacks against our homeland.
9) Is the L.O.O.S. a ruling party? We are a political force with timeless values and principles, which we can and will offer from whatever position the Greek citizens appoint us, either as a government or as an opposition.
A political body that represents the interests of the Greeks and is at the centre of the political system.
We are the vanguard of responsibility and we prove it every moment, working consistently and steadily for political normality and good governance of the country, setting new conditions in the political system that will get us out of the current moral, political and economic impasse.
The ideology of the People's Orthodox Rally is clear to all who have followed its course, it is a "genuinely patriotic" and "genuinely popular" party with a "kinematic character", with all the characteristics of this ideological positioning.
The summation of these features at the state, political, collective and individual levels is what we call Patriotic Interventionism.
The L.A.O.S. is a "genuinely patriotic" party, which believes in the values of the Homeland and patriotism at national, state, collective and individual level.
He also believes in an independent National Foreign Policy with the interests of Greece as its sole focus, as well
as in the need for the practical expression of patriotism in our daily life, with the conscious fulfilment of all the obligations of the citizen towards the homeland.
In this context, it fights both for a Greece within a Europe of nations and not of markets, and for the return, the re-legitimization and the generalized acceptance of the concept of "Homeland" as a feeling of "originating and belonging".
Between a State - an indifferent "spectator" squeezed by selfish private interests and a "demotic-bureaucratic" Super-State oppressor for its citizens, the LA.O.S. advocates and fights for a lean, executive and productive "State-General", which will set rules and developmental axes and will intervene in a regulatory and calculated manner to ensure their observance,
that protects both the functioning of the economy and the lives of all its citizens, especially those who are economically or otherwise disadvantaged.
The L.O.O.S., accepting interventionism and for reasons of a more general approach to Man as a total Being and not as an economic unit,
is an "authentically popular" party, far from superficial "pro-popular" or blatantly irresponsible "populist" political schemes.
The ideology of "interventionism" of a genuinely "popular" party like the L.O.S. incorporates all the values of the Homeland and patriotism, making them, in fact, the dominant criteria of both political expression and personal attitude to life.
Patriotic Interventionism, the proposal of the L.O.O.S. to the Greek society, calls for the substantial participation and intervention of both the state and each Greek citizen individually, "alone and after many", in the daily political, collective, social and economic life of our country, with the exclusive interest of our country and the general good of Greek society in mind.
What it is - How Patriotic Interventionism works
Patriotic Interventionism is a transversal and stratified movement of Greek women and Greek patriots who think, suffer and struggle for the good of the whole Homeland, far from the logic of exclusively material individual profit at the expense of the State and society as a whole.
It is a Democratic, Social, Modernist and Moral Proposal, for individual freedoms, the security and prosperity of all those who live legally in Greece, the rights of the weakest, the safeguarding of workers, the creativity and entrepreneurial spirit of Greeks.
Patriotic Interventionism:Has a kinematic, democratic but also self-restrained character, favours, supports and fights for a "Greece that belongs to the Greeks", for forms of "mixed economy",
has a permanent ideological front towards the extremes (right and left) and towards everything that divides our people and seeks and contributes to solve, if possible, peacefully through dialogue, the normal and legitimate conflicts of opinions and interests, classes and strata, which exist in every living society,
is a much more specific and demanding concept than "general Patriotism" and "love of country", as it links the right with the obligation to the national and social whole, which is not promoted and served today by any other Party.
is at the antithesis of both the Left's obsession with "class struggle", domination and divisive social action, and the "opposition for opposition", the jackals who claim to be the leaders of bipartisanship,
opposing the interlocking, corruption, criminality, and the underground economy, believing that a better functioning of our society, based on the universal human values of Hellenism, Humanism and the Christian religion, is for the benefit of all of us.
requires - far from any negativism, irresponsible "no to everything" and servile submission to anti-national interest planning - both participation in schemes and decisions for the good of the Homeland and distancing oneself from them when they do not fulfil the purpose of their original choice.
is clearly differentiated from other schemes that invoke, in general terms, the "Homeland" through: (a) the example of civic life, the proven practice of setting aside individual interest for the collective, unifying action within society, with emphasis on obligations to the State, as well as intervention within and up to the limits of legality to prevent wrongful acts wherever they are pointed out,
b) the continuous concern and mutual assistance "from the hysterical" for the underprivileged strata of society,
denouncing both the unpatriotic, materialistic, provocative enrichment and the unpatriotic class guildism and unilateralism.
The YES and the NO of the Popular Orthodox Rally
YES To democracy
NO To Indiscretion
YES To National Dignity
NO To humiliation and intolerance
YES To the National Games
NO To the falsification of History
YES To Patriots and Fighters
NO To misleaders and middlemen
YES To dialogue and culture
NO To Hooded Men and Agents
YES To alliances and joint action
NO To Anarchism
YES To the proper functioning of Allied Governments
NO To the water-headed majorities of arrogance
YES To the punishment of public money offenders
NO To the immunity of Ministers who cover jointly PASOK-ND
YES To Dignity
NO To Family Rule
YES To the movement of ideas and persons
NO To the New Order and Illegal Immigration
YES To the state - Welfare
NO To the Master State
YES To Social Justice
NO To the arbitrariness of the few
YES To Social Solidarity
NO To Seizures and Auctions
YES To Public Health
NO To cots and envelopes
YES To Decent Living
NO To unemployment and begging
YES To a sustainable National Pension
NO To reductions in main and supplementary pensions
YES To the modernisation of the State
NO To the Sale of National Property
YES To the Europe of Nations
NO To the Europe of the vassals
YES To the development of the EEZ (Exclusive Zones)
NO To Turkish Violations and Arbitrariness
YES To an honest dialogue with Turkey
NO To its accession to the European Union
YES To a referendum on Skopje
NO To the theft of the name of our Macedonia
YES To a free and independent Cyprus
NO To an Annan-type plan
YES To strong Armed Forces
NO To partisanship and subversion
YES To the privileges of the Akritic regions
NO To their shrinkage, population deterioration and decline
YES To Law and Order
NO To crime and insecurity
YES To the prevention of criminal and terrorist acts
NO To the cover-up of anti-authoritarians
YES To free youth action
NO To rigidity and dogmatism
YES To free movement of citizens
NO To the ghettoisation and marginalisation of areas
YES To the Private Initiative
NO To Multiethnic Arbitrary Arbitrations
YES To healthy competition
NO To cartels and middlemen
YES To the financing of new production units
NO To the relocation of healthy businesses to neighbouring countries
YES In large self-financing projects
NO To imported bosses
YES To selective privatisations
NO To the hammer National wealth and energy
YES To the growth and improvement of the country's airports
NO To their transfer to multinational companies
YES To Work for Greeks
NO To Parasitism of Illegal Migrants
YES To the premium and subsidy on energy and fertilizers to Farmers
NO to farmers at the mercy of Brussels bureaucracy
YES To the upward harmonisation of remuneration
NO To the accuracy and the "hats" of SUPER MARKET
YES In organised clean municipal markets
NO To the rampant trafficking
39.   YES In the tax consciousness of Greeks
NO To the injustices of the tax system with the most expensive VAT in Europe
YES To the state contribution for the acquisition of a first home
NO To Coats and Bank Blackmail
YES To the support of the family home
NO To rape and degradation
YES To large families
NO To the mockery of third-generation families
YES To the working mother
NO To isolation and blackmail
YES To a proud old age
NO To their abandonment and shaming
YES To free access to the beaches
NO To the economic self-interest of public spaces
YES To the protection of the environment
NO To arson and the rampant industrial waste
YES To Sport and Education
NO To Drugs and Child Prostitution
YES In Private Educational Institutions (Higher Education)
NO To the Panhellenic Examinations
YES To Orthodoxy and Mount Athos
NO Construction of an Islamic Centre in Botanico
YES To the indication of religion on identity cards
NO De-orthodoxy of the Nation
We believe that the economic crisis that Greece is facing is multi-level and the actions that need to be taken to address it must be equally multi-level.
The actions we propose, and will undertake if the Greek people honour us with their vote, are summarised, grouped by their targeting, in the following:
Restructuring of the Cabinet of Ministers with the reduction of the number of Ministries and the creation of a Ministry of Foreign Resources (Shipping, Tourism, Hellenism Abroad)
Creating conditions of legality and speeding up the administration of justice
Transfers instead of reserve, combined with the employment of civil servants outside the narrow state sector
Establishment of a social employment agency for the subsidised unemployed
Opening of closed professions with appropriate population criteria
Change in the system of procurement of military equipment
Establishment of a Single Insurance Institution, abolition of insurance contributions and their replacement with an "insurance fee" on the turnover of businesses
Strict control of state funding of NGOs.
Stopping state funding of trade unions.
A single pay scale across the wider public sector, linked to GDP, and implementation of the sevenfold principle.
Exploitation of the legacies and real estate of the State.
Control the movement of money abroad.
Outsourcing the management of public hospitals to managers.
Γ.  Collection measures
Restructure tax collection mechanisms on a new basis.
Conditional equation of tax evasion with "black money trafficking" with a transitional grace period of six months for the legalisation of the money already acquired and its independent taxation.
Legislative Abolition of the separate taxation of interest on bank deposits and dividends from shares.
Suspension of the repatriation of funds and the purchase of government bonds, with independent taxation.
A tax on "carbon emissions" and "production conditions" for imported products.
D. Measures to restart the economy
Reduction of VAT and maintaining a lower rate for the islands.
20. Suspension of the tax return for construction.
Bank mergers and linking of deposit and lending rates.
Reduction of the capital of business and housing loans by 30%
and their restructuring with the possibility of a five-year "freeze".
Establish clear and stable taxation rules.
24. Creating conditions of industrial peace.
Ε.  Development measures
Delimitation and exploitation of the Greek EEZ.
Improving economic relations with the emerging economies (BRICs).
Expeditious administration of justice in development project cases.
Providing Greek citizenship as an incentive for investment.
Tax-free, under certain conditions, turnover up to 100.000 Euro.
30. Change of Tiresias.
31. Incentives for non-cultivated agricultural land, its reparcelling and incentives for young farmers.
F. Measures to support entrepreneurship
32. Combating illicit trade.
Increasing the competitiveness of the private sector by increasing working hours without increasing wages but with a bonus on company profits.
Realigning corporate taxation based on the taxation of our competitor countries.
Tax exemption of reinvested profits.
Strengthening Greek industries and creating conditions for improving their competitiveness.
Producing and supplying cheaper energy for businesses.
Ζ.  Measures to stimulate employment
Removal of illegal immigrants.
Changing labour law.
40. Subsidising the employment of new graduates for two years.
H. Measures to maintain the standard of living
41. Price freeze on basic necessities.
Reduction of tax and other burdens on real estate.
43. Abolition of the special fee for ERT.
Subsidies for electricity and heating oil consumption based on social criteria.
Θ.  In dire need
45. Introduction of a national currency, parallel to the Euro, for all transactions within the country and only within the country.
Constitutional and Institutional Changes
The next Parliament will be able to start the Constitutional Review procedures.
With this in mind, combined with the fact that the current crisis has highlighted a number of institutional problems and dysfunctions, we believe that we must set out the directions in which our proposals will move, if the Greek people honour us with their vote.
Establishment of a "Council of Excellence" which will be an advisory body to the President of the Republic, consisting of the Archbishop, the Prime Minister, the Speaker of the Parliament and the Chairmen of the Parliamentary Groups, the most senior of the Presidents of the Supreme Courts, the Chief of the Armed Forces, the most senior of the Diplomatic Corps, the President of the Academy of Athens, a representative of the Assembly of Rectors and the Presidents of the GSEE and ADEDY.
Establishment of a "Constitutional Court", with the task of resolving disputes that arise in relation to the functioning of our constitution, the control of the finances of political parties, the pre-trial investigation and referral of all cases related to issues of legal liability of politicians, such as the "Ministerial Responsibility" and "Parliamentary Immunity", and the control of allegations of "political deception".
Constitutional provision and establishment of the system of "Simple proportional representation with a minimum vote threshold clause" for the Parliamentary Elections.
Constitutional restriction on the right to re-elect a man as Prime Minister, in line with the right to re-elect the President of the Republic.
A constitutional provision that participation in the governmental scheme is incompatible with any political or professional capacity, including the office of Member of Parliament.
Constitutional limitation of the right to be elected to Parliament to four four-year terms and prohibition of both the election in the same Parliament and with the same party of two people related by first degree of kinship and their election in the same constituency in two consecutive elections.
Constitutional provision for the rationalisation of the remuneration and privileges of Ministers, Members of Parliament and Judges.
A constitutional provision for the financial operation of political parties, with a review of their subsidies, an annual audit and mandatory posting of their nominalized financial data on the internet and a ban on borrowing against future state subsidies.
Constitutional provision that the programmatic declarations of each party as well as the election promises of politicians constitute a "legal assumption of a legal obligation" towards the citizens so that, in case they are not fulfilled after the elections, they constitute the crime of "political deception".
Constitutional provision for the appointment of the supreme leadership of the Judiciary, the heads of all Courts, the Chief of the Armed Forces and the heads of the Corps of our Armed Forces by the President of the Republic upon the recommendation of the Council of Aristocrats.
¾ Constitutional provision for the holding of a referendum, if requested by 10% of the Members of Parliament or if requested by 1,000,000 Greek citizens by collecting signatures.
Constitutional enshrinement of the principle of balanced budgets for the wider public sector with provision for borrowing procedures in cases of emergency situations.
Constitutional provision that the special jurisdiction in cases of "Ministerial Responsibility" and "Parliamentary Immunity" is entrusted to the "Constitutional Court" as regards the pre-trial part of the case, and as regards the judicial part, it is equated with that of the highest judicial officials, with an explicit reference to the fact that the periods of limitation of any offences are equal to those of all citizens of Greece.
Constitutional provision for non-state higher education institutions.
Maintaining the provisions for the protection of the "predominant religion of Greece", which is the "Eastern Orthodox Church of Christ".
FOREIGN POLICY
We believe that Greece must have a national foreign policy that is non-partisan, with a long-term strategy and dynamics, focused on the long-term interests of the Greek nation.
Also, that the doctrines on the basis of which our Foreign Policy is exercised must be that "Greece belongs where its interests dictate" and "we claim everything that is guaranteed to us by the International Treaties and International Law".
In this context, and if the Greek people honour us with their vote, we will move in the following directions:
Developing and implementing a long-term diplomatic plan for a multidimensional Foreign Policy and cooperation with all countries that is in Greece's interest.
Declaration of the Greek EEZ, in accordance with international law.
Upgrading relations with the Republic of Cyprus, with the joint declaration of EEZ boundaries as a first priority. Greece and Cyprus.
Targeted diplomatic response to Turkish expansionism
and taking action in the EU to remove the casus belli.
Continuing the effort to resolve the issues with Skopje, in the firm framework of rejecting any name that includes the term "Macedonia".
Developing relations with EU countries facing similar liquidity and debt problems.
Developing relations with the US, taking advantage of the evolving changes in geopolitical and geostrategic balances.
Emphasis on developing relations with the economically emerging countries (BRICs), with priority given to Russia and China.
Investigate the possibilities of providing support or business bases in Russia and China, in selected outlying islands.
Developing relations with Israel, on the basis of common interests of development and countering Turkey's "Islamic policy".
Support for the Ecumenical Patriarchate and support for the rights of the homogenous people of Turkey and Northern Epirus.
Taking actions for the recognition of the genocide of the Greeks of Pontus and Asia Minor by the Turks.
Strengthening of the Commercial Attaché Offices at the Embassies for the promotion of Greek products and services abroad.
NATIONAL DEFENCE
We believe that Greece is a peaceful country that respects International Conventions and International Law and understands that in today's circumstances it makes no sense to have territorial ambitions against neighbouring states.
Also, that Greece must have a strong defense mechanism that will ensure the doctrine of "Reliable Deterrence", that in any attack against us the cost to the invader will be so great that it will act as a deterrent.
In this context, and if the Greek people honour us with their vote, we will move in the following directions:
1.  Removal of partisanship, partisanship, and mismanagement from all aspects of our Armed Forces.
Return to the Unified Defence Doctrine and reorganization of our Armed Forces with emphasis on interdisciplinary cooperation and the form of modern operations.
3.  Abolition of automatic retirement, creation of a parallel yearbook and new types of military departments, staffed by released unemployed, to meet logistics needs.
Review of the time and conditions of compulsory military service, the system of granting deferments and reserve service, based on the needs and capabilities of our country.
Establishment of military obligations for those foreigners who wish to become citizens of our country, in line with those of Greek citizens of their age who choose unarmed service.
Establish a new institutional framework for approving equipment needs, contracting its purchase, its repayment and quality control prior to its receipt, with an emphasis on mandatory co-production instead of purchasing, where feasible.
Development of programmes of reciprocal cooperation and co-production of weapons systems, with the introduction of incentives for Greek industries that will have the capacity to produce armaments.
Address, within the limits of the current economic reality, the chronic problems of the members of our Armed Forces.
9.  Wider social visibility and social recognition of the role and mission of our Armed Forces.
PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION
We believe that Public Administration should be exercised in the interest of the state, citizens and society, by Public Officers who are responsible and aware of their function.
Also, that the goal of changes in the Public Administration should be the creation of a meritocratic and unbiased, computerized, networked and decentralized state mechanism, focused on increased productivity and better service to citizens.
In this context, if the Greek people honour us with their vote and beyond what has been mentioned above in our proposals for dealing with the crisis, we will move in the following directions:
Restructuring of the wider Public Sector, based on the current needs of the Public Administration
and the exploitation of technology.
Administrative restructuring of the country into 20 Regions with full administrative and financial autonomy,
governed by elected bodies.
Targeted support for the Accritic Regions to retain their population and maintain their population ratio.
Taking measures to counter attempts to denaturalise the Muslims of Thrace.
Transforming the employment status of civil servants, with provision for their placement in any position required.
Establish civil liability of civil servants for errors, omissions or delays in the handling of cases assigned to them.
Strengthening the role of the Higher School of Public Administration and linking its attendance to the assumption of positions of responsibility.
Changing the way in which employees in the wider public sector are evaluated and linking it to promotions and the assumption of positions of responsibility.
Expansion of the KEPs to cover the whole country and their direct electronic interconnection with all public sector services.
Redefining the powers of the municipalities and limiting them to matters of exclusively local interest.
Strengthening the role of the Public Administration Auditors' Corps
Creating a Service for Quality Control of Services in the wider public sector, on the basis of citizen facilitation.
Strengthen the penalties for corruption of public sector officials.
NEW MINISTRY OF ILLICIT RESOURCES
Greece has three major national assets that are not easily included in the measurement of its economic, and not only, strength: the Greeks Abroad, Shipping and Tourism.
We seek to maximise, over time, what they can offer us, by creating a Ministry of "Unearned Resources", as they are traditionally known.
In this context, if the Greek people honour us with their vote, we will move in the following directions:
Α. Hellenism Abroad
Taking measures to develop the links of Expatriates with the motherland, by upgrading the existing ones and restoring the abolished Consular Authorities and Greek Schools.
General, periodic, census of Expatriates, creation of a Register of Eminent Expatriates and facilitating the acquisition of Greek citizenship.
Facilitation of the exercise of the electoral rights of Expatriates in their place of residence or stay, provision for their representation in the Greek Parliament and the creation of a Parliament of Greater Greece.
Taking measures for fair treatment, equal tax treatment and attracting investment from Greeks of the Diaspora.
Β. Shipping
Establish incentives for the integration of all Greek-owned ships under the Greek flag.
Take measures to address the unemployment of Greek seafarers.
Upgrading maritime education and developing programmes to attract young people to the maritime profession.
Taking action in the EU to finance the construction and modernisation of ships, provided they are built in shipyards, fly the EU flag and are manned exclusively by crew from EU countries.
Γ. Tourism
Taking measures to increase the length of the tourist season and the development of winter tourism, especially foreign tourism.
Taking measures to develop high quality tourism.
Taking measures to promote cruising and the creation of a network of modern marinas covering all Greek coasts.
Extending controls to tourism businesses. to ensure the provision of quality services.
JUSTICE
We believe that Greece should be a modern Rule of Law, with Equal and Equitable application of the Law and the prescribed penalties and sanctions against parliamentary and political persons.
We recognise that this does not seem to be the case today, because of corruption and corruption in public life, judicial circuits, the slowness in the administration of justice, and the apparent impunity of the famous.
In this context, if the Greek people honour us with their vote and beyond what was mentioned above in our proposals for dealing with the crisis and the constitutional revision, we
will move in the following directions:Assignment to the Supreme Courts of the country to review, within two years, all our legislation for its modernization, the removal of polygamy and overlapping laws.
Legislative characterisation of specific offences as being of "particular social importance", such as the misuse of public money, drug trafficking, paedophilia or the rape of minors, with the provision of particularly severe, exemplary penalties for these offences.
Review of the limitation periods for offences and abolition of the statute of limitations for individual offences of a felony nature.
4.  Reorganization of the Courts and redefinition of their competences, in order to speed up the administration of justice.
Redefining the responsibilities of prosecutors.
Modernise the framework for Bar Associations and the Bar Code.
7.  Review and modernise the Penitentiary Code, change the licensing regime for prisoners and provide for the operation of private prisons under state supervision.
Expansion of the institution of "Rural Prisons" into "Employment Prisons", state or private.
Modernisation of the Penitentiary Institutions, separation of prisoners in them and provision of special treatment for drug addicts, in comparison to the existing in other EU countries.
Expansion of the institution of Internal Correctional Education and the introduction of incentives for the employment of released prisoners.
SECURITY - PUBLIC ORDER
We believe that the concept of Security in a Rule of Law describes the right of every citizen to enjoy his or her freedoms and legally acquired and possessed goods, as well as
the obligation of the state to protect this right.
Similarly, that the concept of Public Order describes the obligation of the state to ensure the observance of its laws and the smooth functioning of its society.
On this basis, we consider the Security Bodies as the organisations created by the state to fulfil its obligations to provide security and public order to its citizens.
In this context, if the Greek people honour us with their vote, we will move in the following directions:
Reorganisation of the Security Corps
and limiting the employment of their staff to their essential tasks.
Strengthening the Security Corps in terms of personnel, indicatively by providing subsidised unemployed persons in selected positions.
Take measures to improve and modernise the training and equipment of the Security Corps.
Taking measures to improve policing, with special planning for the "ghetto areas" of Athens and other large cities.
Take measures to tackle new forms of organised crime and limit the entry and trafficking of arms and drugs.
Modernise and strengthen the Internal Affairs Directorates of the Security Corps.
More specifically on Illegal Immigration:
Removal of illegal immigrants, except for a small percentage of the Greek population who will be selected to stay based on Greek needs and assessment of their skills.
Take measures to curb the slave trade
and the illegal entry of migrants.
Creation of guarded facilities for the short-term stay of illegal immigrants in humane conditions, pending their return to their countries of entry or origin.
Modernise and tighten legislation on the granting of asylum to illegal immigrants.
ECONOMY
We believe that our country's economy has a lot of potential and great potential, if we believe in our abilities, correct our structural weaknesses and finally exploit our capabilities, our geopolitical position, our climate, our mineral wealth and our hydrocarbon deposits.
Moreover, it is unacceptable that 1 in 5 Greeks live in poverty
and that measures are needed to restore the economic situation of Greeks.
In this context, if the Greek people honour us with their vote and beyond what has been mentioned above in our proposals for dealing with the crisis, we will move in the following directions:
Α. Economic model
The economic model we will apply is the adaptation of the ideology of Patriotic Interventionism, as described in the previous chapter, to the field of Economics.
Patriotic Interventionism favours responsible and measured state interventionism in all areas dictated by our national interests and fundamental human rights.
We will apply Patriotic Interventionism in controlling and regulating the market at three levels: a) in determining the developmental axes of our economy,
b) in controlling the real cost of each product and service
, and c) in determining a minimum and maximum profit rate for each product and service.
Β. State Entrepreneurship
We believe that a state business presence is necessary in a few strategic sectors of our country, such as energy, communications, the defence industry or utilities, in the form of a company that will prevent the creation of dependencies or cartels.
As for the companies owned by the state without meeting the above criteria, they will be privatised.
Γ.  Privatisation
6. We believe that the sale of public assets is an action that should be taken in consideration of the broader national interests and only in cases where, from an economic and accounting point of view, it will result in a profit for our country.
D. Public debt management
Issue bonds backed by the revenues from the exploitation of our country's mineral wealth and hydrocarbon deposits,
and use the proceeds to buy our debt on the free market.
Call for an international tender to select an impartial agency to assess our country's debt in "real" and "fictitious" terms and calculate their amount.
Start of negotiations for the capitalization of the "real" debt of our country and the regulation of its repayment over a period of 30 years.
Recourse to the appropriate, where appropriate, institutions for "refusal to pay" and cancellation of the "fictitious" debt of our country.
E. Tax policy
A change in the Tax System based on the elimination of injustices, the reduction of rates and the tightening of penalties for offenders.
Provision of special tax rates for productive, export-oriented, high-tech or innovative enterprises.
Take steps to identify and remove overlaps and ambiguities in our tax legislation.
Creation of a Tax Guide for citizens and businesses, which will be binding for the authorities
and will not allow arbitrary interpretations by the tax authorities.
Configuration of the option for a total tax audit.
Take measures for the mandatory set-off of outstanding taxes against claims from the wider public sector or EU funding.
Take measures to promote purchases and business transactions through bank accounts or cards, with VAT withheld and immediately refunded by banks.
Review of Third Party Taxes and Capital Taxes, in relation to those in force in other EU countries, and their reduction or abolition.
Take measures to tax, at source, the economic activity of illegal economic migrants.
Establishment of the obligation of insurance and tax information for sending foreign currency abroad.
DEVELOPMENT
We believe that Greece has a lot of development potential but it has not been possible to realise it.
Also, that the development policy of our country, according to the criteria of Patriotic Interventionism, is linked to the EU's options for Sustainable Development, as presented in the 10917/06 decision of the Council of Europe.
In this context, if the Greek people honour us with their vote and beyond what has been mentioned in our proposals for dealing with the crisis and the ECONOMY, we will move in the following directions:
Α.   On Private Initiative and Entrepreneurship
Establish an Enterprise Development and Policy Agency
and take measures to strengthen healthy Private Initiative and Entrepreneurship.
Reform of the Development Law, with more effective incentives
and stricter controls to achieve the subsidised results.
Taking measures to facilitate productive investment in Greece, by extending PPPs and "one stop shop" and "fast track" policies.
Creating a body to facilitate the transfer of innovative ideas into products.
Β.  For employment
Implement a new labour policy to tackle the economic crisis
and establish a "National Minimum Wage" for each profession.
Promote the necessary structural changes to prevent further reductions in workers' pay.
Modernisation of the Labour Inspectorate to combat undeclared work and protect private sector workers.
Γ.  On Unemployment
Restructuring of the OAED and replacement of the current "subsidised work of the unemployed" by the "subsidised part-time work of the unemployed" of the same duration to cover the needs of the wider public sector.
Conversion of the OAED schools into public schools of "lifelong training and retraining", accessible to all legal residents of the country.
Establishment of a "De-industrialisation Management Agency" to manage unemployment related to the closure of industrial plants.
D. For our Banking System
Modernisation and limitation of its promiscuity, based on EU data.
Strengthening of our banking system by the state, if necessary, through the acquisition of bank shares equivalent to the subsidies.
13.  Safeguarding the public character of the ATE
14. Bank loans for first home will be guaranteed by the state
and the first home will not be auctioned under any circumstances.
Ε.  For Scientific Research
Restoring research responsibilities to the Ministry of Development.
Changing the operating and funding regime of research institutions, in line with other EU countries.
Taking measures to actively promote research aimed at discovering new and innovative applications.
F. For Trade
Simplification of procedures for starting a commercial business.
Liberalisation of the opening hours of shops, combined with
strict control of the working hours of shop workers.
Adoption of measures to support small and medium-sized trade to deal with large department stores, including the introduction of incentives for the creation of packaging and distribution units by traders' cooperatives.
Control of the installation and operation of hypermarkets, based on those in force in other EU countries.
Take measures to address the phenomena of triangular transactions and transfer pricing by multinational companies.
Ζ. For Industry
Taking measures to avoid the transfer of factories to neighbouring countries
and to reinstate those that have already been transferred.
Launch of tenders for the exploitation of the country's hydrocarbon reserves.
Taking measures for the exploitation and exploitation of our mineral wealth.
Incentives for the establishment and operation of industries related to renewable energy production.
H. For the trade balance and exports
Concentrate all relevant responsibilities in the Ministry of Development and take targeted actions to balance the trade balance.
Modernising the legislation governing our export trade and introducing incentives for its development.
Upgrading the National Export Council and taking actions to promote Greek products abroad.
Development of specific training programmes for the production of executives specialised in export trade.
Reorganise the Customs Service to facilitate exports.
INFRASTRUCTURE - ENERGY
We believe that our country lacks basic infrastructure and that the projects that are needed must be prioritised, based on national needs and their developmental potential, and that they must be
carried out in a way that ensures the economic interests of the state and the quality of their construction.
We believe that our country is rich in energy reserves, both fuel and renewable energy sources, which can offer us not only our energy independence
but also the upgrading of our country to an energy hub in the wider region.
In this context, if the Greek people honour us with their vote and beyond what has been mentioned above in our proposals for dealing with the crisis and in the chapter of DEVELOPMENT, we will move in the following directions:
Α. Infrastructure
Creation of an Infrastructure Construction Agency, which will employ subsidised unemployed workers
and undertake all public works that can be awarded without a competitive tender.
Reform and development of Business Parks and Innovation Parks.
Take measures to improve the existing
and complete the country's road and rail axes under construction.
Take measures to modernise existing airports and ports and
implement the programme for the construction of new ones.
Implementation of a unified water resources management model
and rapid completion of the Upper Rhus Acheloos diversion projects.
Β. Energy
Taking measures to keep PPC under public control,
rationalising its management and remuneration
and ensuring that its social and national role is maintained.
Creation of an electricity grid interconnecting mainland Greece with all the islands.
Design and implementation of an Integrated Programme for the Exploitation of our Energy Reserves, with an emphasis on developing the use of renewable energy sources
and optimising the use of our known thermal reserves.
Taking measures for the development of domestic technology and know-how on renewable energy sources, focused on the conditions of our country.
Incentives to expand the use of natural gas
and extend its networks to all major cities.
COMMUNICATIONS - TRANSPORT
We believe that the existence of a secure and quality communications system and the guarantee of access to it should be under the control and guarantee of the state.
We believe that the creation and operation of a system of safe and uninterrupted transport of people and goods must be offered, controlled and protected by the state.
In this context, if the Greek people honour us with their vote beyond what has been mentioned above in the chapters on DEVELOPMENT and INFRASTRUCTURE, we will move in the following directions:
Α.  Contacts
Improving the supervision of fixed and mobile telephony companies.
Take steps to provide minimum telephone time at an extremely low price, based on socio-economic criteria.
Informing the public about the dangers of mobile phone use
and prohibiting its use by children.
Implement free e-communications training programmes
Deploy open broadband networks in all cities.
Subsidies for the purchase of computers by students, based on socio-economic criteria.
Modernisation of the ELTA
and its greater development in the courier sector.
Β. Transport
8. Taking measures to increase road safety.
Modernisation and extension of the national and urban road network.
Take measures to shift freight from road to other modes of transport.
Developing the car load management infrastructure of each city.
Upgrading public transport networks, introducing incentives for their use and taking measures to reduce smuggling.
Take measures to promote competition in domestic air transport.
Streamlining OSE,
rationalising its operating costs
and promoting wider freight use of the railway.
Redesign of our ferry network, aiming at daily connection of all islands, reduction of fares and shortening the time of the routes.
AGRICULTURE - LIVESTOCK - FISHERIES
We believe that supporting the primary production sector is a national priority,
with the aim of retaining at least 10% of the economically active population in the sector
and, ultimately, the regeneration of the Greek countryside.
In this context, if the Greek people honour us with their vote and beyond what has been mentioned in our proposals for dealing with the crisis, we will move in the following directions:
Promotion of the Greek agri-food model
Creation of a single body to control the Health and Safety of products, with full traceability from production to the shelf.
Taking measures to promote Greek agricultural products,
including tax incentives for businesses that sell more than 50% of Greek agricultural products.
Raising awareness of society for the consumption of Greek agricultural products (Patriotic Consumerism).
Establishment of a Chamber of Primary Sector, establishment of a professional and business identity card for farmers, stockbreeders or fishermen.
Freezing primary sector debt for 5 years.
Establishment of a Farm Accident.
Modernisation of the ELGA Regulation.
Submission of a new draft State Aid Regulation (SAAR) to the European Commission.
Establishment of auctions of primary sector products in the capital of each prefecture
and the creation of "Farmers' Markets", exclusively for producers, initially in special areas of the National Roads.
Implementation of information programmes for farmers, stockbreeders and fishermen on modern good practices in their sector
and their decoupling from the policy of subsidies.
Taking measures to restructure crops towards the production of products with "Designation of Origin" and "Geographical Indication", organic farming, biofuels and the cultivation of animal feed.
Development of programmes for the promotion of organic livestock farming and livestock products with "Geographical Indication" and "Designation of Origin".
Allocation of settled land for extensive fenced livestock farming
and implementation of grassland reinforcement programmes with grassland swathes.
Creation of a National Council for the Genetic Identification
and Improvement of Greek animal breeds.
Taking measures to protect Greek fisheries from fishing vessels from countries outside the European Union.
Take measures to promote and expand fish farming.
Establish rules and restrictions on recreational fishing.
Provision of a pension to female farmers at the age of 60 if they have at least three children.
ENVIRONMENT - FORESTRY - SPATIAL PLANNING
We believe that the Environment is an essential factor for the preservation and quality of human life,
a basic social good that must be protected and preserved.
Moreover, that our few remaining forests are national treasures
and should be effectively protected.
We believe that Spatial Planning is a nodal point where environmental protection, residential development, collective and individual interests meet, and often conflict,
requiring an active regulatory state presence.
In this context, in addition to what has already been mentioned in the sections of ADMINISTRATION and DEVELOPMENT and if the Greek people honour us with their vote, we will move in the following directions:
Modernization and simplification of our Environmental and Spatial Legislation.
Completion of the National Cadastre
and creation of a National Forest Inventory, with a record of areas that are forests, woodland, grassland or agricultural land, based on 1975 data.
Definition of land use throughout the country, with explicit reference to the permitted changes, activities and urban planning conditions of each place.
Elaboration of new spatial and urban planning.
Reorganization of Urban Planning
and redefining their responsibilities.
Creation of holiday and tourist development zones, with characteristics appropriate to their geographical location.
Taking measures to develop environmental awareness.
Taking measures to tackle environmental pollution, creating an "Environmental Police" and an "Environmental Tiresias".
9. Take measures to expand recycling.
Inventory all landfills,
close illegal ones
and take measures to gradually replace them with waste pyrolysis plants.
Take measures to promote wastewater management through biological treatment and the use of sewage sludge.
Re-establishment of the Forestry Service in connection with the General Directorate of Forests,
with the formation of a Forestry Corps of subsidized unemployed.
Establishment of an independent Forest Protection and Afforestation Agency.
INSURANCE - SOCIAL WELFARE
We believe that Greek society needs an insurance system under the guarantee of the state, with a strong financial basis, which will provide a sense of social justice.
Also, that Social Welfare, the care for the weaker members of a society, is a necessary condition for the maintenance of social cohesion.
In this context, if the Greek people honour us with their vote, in clarification of what was mentioned above in our proposals for dealing with the crisis, we will move in the following directions:
1. Establishment of a Single Insurance and Welfare Institution for all Greeks, which will incorporate all the main and subsidiary Insurance Funds.
Α. Insurance
Replacement of employer's insurance contributions with a variable "insurance fee" on the turnover of enterprises.
Replacement of the employees' insurance contributions "insurance fee", which will be added on top of the VAT.
Granting a minimum National Pension to all Greeks over 65 years of age.
Granting of an additional pension, based on the occupational specialisation, years of work and additional contributions paid up to now or optionally in the future.
Β. Social welfare
Modernisation and streamlining of the procedures for the granting and entitlement to receive Welfare Benefits.
Creation of a Network of Social Services, by subsidized unemployed people under the supervision of Social Workers, in line with and as an extension of the "Help at Home" programme.
Subsidies for basic living needs for those families or citizens living below the poverty line, indicatively in the form of the "National Minimum Wage".
Creation of organised facilities for free temporary accommodation for distressed people and families.
Taking measures to strengthen the family, to
address theunder-fertility
and the demographic problem of the country.
Materialisation of the Multilateral Allowances
and the establishment of socio-economic criteria for their granting and amount.
Increase the rate of recruitment of large families in public sector tenders.
Taking measures to integrate people with disabilities into society and work.
HEALTH
We believe that the right to health is a natural human right
and that the right to health equality is a foundation of social cohesion.
Also, with the increase in medical knowledge, average life expectancy and the cost of health services, the challenges are shifting from the treatment of diseases to active prevention policies.
In this context, if the Greek people honour us with their vote, in addition to and in clarification of what was mentioned above in our proposals for dealing with the crisis, we will move in the following directions:
Establishment of a Unified Health Agency, common to all Greeks, and the
introduction of an electronic Health Card for its use.
Replacement of employer and employee health contributions by a "health fee" to be added to the VAT.
Establishment of a uniform double-entry accounting system
and mandatory uniform computerisation in all health care units.
Creation of a broader National Health System, which will include the Public Hospitals, the Health Centres, the IKA units, the Municipal Clinics, the EHIC and 15% of the beds of the Private Hospitals, with a single procurement system for all its units.
Developing telemedicine, emergency departments and intensive care units across the country.
Modernisation of the framework of the Medical Associations, by entrusting them with the provision and control of the "continuing medical education" of doctors.
Establishment of the family doctor
and incentives to meet the needs of the region in terms of specialist doctors.
Review of the policy on nursing, on the directions of one degree and nursing specialties.
Take measures to promote equivalent medicines and support the Greek pharmaceutical industry.
Extend free provision of medicines based on medical and socio-economic criteria.
Designing and implementing programmes to minimise the impact of the socio-economic crisis on the mental health of citizens.
Review of the policy for drug addicts
and the creation of integrated programmes for the prevention, treatment and cure of addictions of all kinds.
Take measures to promote organ donation and transplantation, with strict control at all stages of the process.
Taking measures to minimise the financial burden of illegal immigrants on the NHS.
EDUCATION
We believe that Education is a concept broader than education, is vital for both the quality of life of people and the survival of any society and defines our identity, at a personal, cultural and, ultimately, national level.
Also, that our education, Greek education, must be supported and preserved in order to ensure our survival in the long run, and that it must
be a means for our cultural expansion.
We believe that Education is an investment in the future for every society
and that it must regain its essential role in our country.
In this context, if the Greek people honour us with their vote, we will move in the following directions:
Taking measures for the timely distribution of educational material to pupils and students.
Covering the fixed needs of all levels of education with permanent teachers, based on transfer programmes.
Revision of the curricula of primary and secondary education, with the aim of creating critical thinking.
Addition of the courses "Greek Culture and Tradition"
and "Environmental Consciousness" to the curriculum of compulsory education.
Creation of Rural Lyceums
and revision of the subjects of Technical Lyceums and Secondary Technical Education.
Qualitative upgrading of Vocational Guidance to meet the needs in cutting-edge professions.
Modernisation of the curricula of higher education institutions, and their continuous evaluation.
Modernising the scheme for providing free educational material to φοιτητές| and linking it to the possibilities offered by the Internet.
Effective implementation of the law on University Asylum.
Establishment of the appropriate framework for the establishment of branches of "Greek Studies" of Public Universities abroad.
Modernization and expansion of the framework of student care
and financial support for students, based on socio-economic criteria.
Modernisation and expansion of the subsidised programmes of "Continuing Lifelong Education".
CULTURE - SPORT
We believe that our Culture, Tradition and Language are national and social assets, and are both a source of inspiration and creation and a capital for the survival of Greece in difficult times.
Furthermore, our country's policy on these must be based on criteria for the cultivation and promotion of our cultural tradition on the one hand, and the promotion of intellectual and artistic creation on the other.
We believe that Sport is part of the wider Education and we approach it in the form of the sporting ideal, as it is celebrated in the Hymn of the Olympic Games.
Also, that it is a social good and that the right of access to it for all should be actively supported, especially for those at risk of exclusion.
In this context, if the Greek people honour us with their vote, we will move in the following directions:
Α.  Culture
Taking measures to extend opening hours and ensure the operation of Museums and Archaeological sites.
Inclusion of all Greek monuments in Google-Earth| and creation of 3D online museums.
Creation of a network of "Local History and Tradition" museums in the major cities of Greece and in places of religious tourism.
Taking measures for the greatest possible promotion of Greek Culture abroad.
Extending and rationalising subsidies for artistic and cultural activities.
Extension of subsidies for theatre tickets.
Β. Sports
Codification of the multiplicity of Sports Laws into a Single Sports Code.
Improvement of public and municipal sports infrastructure.
Strengthening school sports and municipal mass sports programmes.
Modernise and modernise legislation on ντόπινγκ| and take measures to control the trafficking of anabolic steroids in private gyms.
Review the incentives for high-level sport.
Review and extend measures to combat violence in stadiums.
Strengthening Sports Justice and creating a Sports Crime Unit.
From the Ideological Secretariat
In today's question of the Greek "what will happen tomorrow", our party, the People's Orthodox Rally, a genuinely popular party, a party that fights daily for the preservation of popular sovereignty and our national dignity, is fighting, practically and demonstrably, for the reversal of the country's downward course.
He is spoiling with the presentation of his Programme, with his political stigma in Parliament and his ideological principles (Patriotic Interventionism), the guidelines of actions that will lead our country to a new developmental beginning.
We do not claim that all our proposals are a rigid "recipe" for success.
It is certain, however, that all the proposed measures are motivated by the concern and anxiety of all patriots from all walks of life, and they fully express the will of Greek society.
We want the Greeks on their feet. They deserve it!!!! Together we will win!!!!
Apostolos Bamichas Secretary of Ideological Counsellor of the President of LA.O'.S.
From the Political Planning Secretariat
In the current environment of the economic and social crisis that our country is experiencing, questioning the politics, the parties and the policies that led us to this crisis is not only another parameter of the crisis but also the means to overcome it.
The time has come when the vote of every citizen will cease to be a means for a transaction of personal favours
and will become the measure of taking personal responsibility for what is happening and will happen in our country.
On this basis, it becomes necessary to present the basic principles and the programmatic guidelines of each party in order to enable a critical choice of the citizens' vote.
We are ready and we were not afraid to present our positions to you.
Ask yourself how many of the other parties did the same.
With faith in the ideology and physiognomy of the LA.O'.S., we invite you to share with us the path towards a better tomorrow for us and our Homeland.
Manos Anastasopoulos Secretary of Political Planning
Credits:
Ideological Secretariat Programme Secretariat Programme Secretariat Coordination Committee G.E.C.E. Coordination Committee Political Planning Secretariat
From the Programme Secretariat
Having as a legacy the Greek value system of life, we have submitted our programmatic positions with Responsibility and Consistency for Continuity and Perspective.
We are a force for rupture, subversion and regeneration.
Representatives of all the trends and tensions of society, with an ataxic but also an ataxic Popular conception of composition and perspective.
We pioneer as the vanguard of the universal natural constants of logic and idealism.
We honour the guiding nature of policy, guided by anticipation and adaptation to new circumstances.
With our programmatic positions, we propose a Patriotic and Popular conception of life.
We say NO to the big slave state, with its parasitic commercial and productive processes that distort development.
We say YES to a state that provides us with Security and Equality, inviting us to produce, and with a spirit of Freedom leading us to create, strengthened by Greek Tradition and Orthodoxy.
Kostas Kiltidis Programme Secretary MP of the L.O.O.S. For the creation of the publication, the proposals of the respective G.E.C.C.E. of the L.O.O.S. were collected and processed, initially, by the editorial team of:Othonas Floratos Alexis Economou Dimitris SaratsiotisThe following participated in the processing of the Programmatic Positions:    Michalis Vardas Deputy Programme Secretary Evelyn Deska Secretary of Expatriate Hellenism Final editing Manos Anastasopoulos.
Greece, our country, must be saved and it is only a matter of time before we take it upon ourselves to save our country.
A country that comes from afar and we will not allow some to stop its progress.
Greece has much to offer to humanity and the vision will become a reality if we all work together as one.
Greece belongs to the Greeks, to the Greeks who love their homeland, who love the nation, who love Orthodoxy, who fight for Greece.
The situation in the country is extremely bleak. Recession, bankruptcies, unemployment, wage freezes, blackmail and a constant irritation of the country. This is the situation and no one seems to be reacting.
The state of the country, I repeat, has never been like that and could never be like that.
It is a joint achievement of PASOK and ND together.
All of them took a prosperous country that in 1974 the then thousand dollar bill was going through all the markets of the world and today we are unable to pay back what we owe.
Let them know that our answer is "discipline and work".
And with these we will win.
Greece cannot surrender.
Greece does not need to be ruled by foreigners.
Greece is invulnerable, Greece never dies. It may rest, but again it pulls towards glory!
And this time, WE have the responsibility to lead it forward.(Excerpt from the speech of Mr. George Karatzaferis at the Velideion Foundation, Thessaloniki, 14/9/2011)
The Establishment of the Popular Orthodox Rally
The People's Orthodox Rally (the L.O.O.S. with the stress on the omicron as in the word "people") was founded on 14/09/2000 by its President Mr. The decision to found the L.O.S. was taken after realizing that the so-called big parties not only lack a vision for the progress of the people and our country,
but moreover, they cannot stand the truth and tend to drag our country into dangerous adventures with their politics and their intransigence in foreign decision-making centers.
The foundation of the L.O.O.S. was established to confront the two national necessities created by the dead-end policy of those who ruled our country in the last decades, the need for the restoration of popular sovereignty and the need for the overthrow of the rotten establishment that oppresses our country and leads it to gradual depopulation and enslavement.
The establishment of the L.O.O.S. was done to create a political home for all Greeks who see politics as a place of choice for the good of our country and not as a place of vote exchange for personal convenience.
A common political roof that will house, without criteria of political origin, all Greek patriots who are concerned and who listen to the agony and the will of the Greek society, who do not accept discounts neither in our national sovereignty nor in the level and quality of our life, who want to get our country out of its current quagmire.
In which Greece will our children grow up?
The people believe in a Greece
at the intellectual, economic, social and political forefront of Europe and the world.
where you will live in safety and peace
where the basic living problems of its citizens will be solved and people will not live in poverty
that respect for every aspect of human dignity will be the main rule more modern, free from influences and dependencies, domestic and foreign
whose political leadership will be committed to the service of the people
and will exclusively serve the national interests of the country
with social justice and clear rules for the functioning of the state for all citizens
to combat inequality in income and education
where the work and housing of all its citizens is guaranteed
that will support the family, motherhood, children
This is the vision of the People's Orthodox Rally.
A credible Greece with proud citizens.
