To the working class, the professional industrialists and traders, the small and medium peasants, the youth and women, the pensioners, the people of science, art and culture, every thinking person, the permanent members of the Armed Forces and the conscripted children of the people, the workers of the Security Forces, the Fire Brigade and the Coast Guard. Before the ballot box, recall what has happened from 1990 to the present day.
We are living in a period characterized by raids on popular conquests, changes in borders,
fierce competition for the distribution and redistribution of markets and wealth, produced by the sweat and blood of workers.
The values of class struggle, of social struggle, are questioned and denounced.
People are openly and unformed prevented from choosing the path they want for social popular prosperity, political independence and peace.
Rights and basic freedoms are brutally violated.
Capital and profits are accumulated, while workers experience a torturous daily life.
The new generation is growing up in total insecurity.
Make the most of your vote! Don't let this weapon be turned against you!
Support the ballots of the KKE and its partners.
Ensure strength in your power!
The KKE has proved that it is a party that endures, knows how to fight, strives for unity and rallying, and respects cooperation.
The KKE's policy responds to the present and the future of popular interests with consistency and stability.
A vote for the KKE is the only one that gives profit.
For the people there is no other choice but to strengthen the KKE's ballot papers, to disengage from both parties.
To open a window of optimism on 8 March.
To blow a regenerative air of popular dynamism.
Young people, women, must refute the prognosis that they are vulnerable to the propaganda of the PASOK and ND leaderships.
Neither PASOK nor ND! For people's alliance and power
To throw off fatalism and manipulation
The KKE has not been absent from any struggle for work,
education
and health
for better income,
for social and democratic rights.
On culture
and the environment,
on gender equality
and the problems of youth.
He was at the forefront of the fight against privatisation,
against the overthrow of labour relations,
of the EU's unpopular decisions,
against war and NATO.
The KKE told the truth about developments in the Balkans,
about Maastricht, EMU and the euro, about the Stability Pact, when the other parties were hiding it.
It did not surrender to the sirens of supposed modernisation and supposed renewal, to the orgy of slander and the nullification of the conquests of socialism that we have known.
It stood upright, so that hope could stand upright, so that the flame of the people's agitational upliftment could be rekindled, so that popular initiative and emancipation could develop.
Vote for the KKE. Stubbornly vote against PASOK and ND
Unemployment, poverty and austerity have one cause: The means of producing wealth are owned by the forces of capital. These forces, through the governments of PASOK and ND, are reaping all the fruits.
By participating in EU choices
and NATO, the situation deteriorated.
As long as political and economic power is in the hands of these forces, as long as the people's movement does not change the present balance of power, the problems will continue to grow, we will go from bad to worse.
The wealth produced by the hands and spirit of the workers is enough to satisfy the modern needs of the people and youth, for stable employment and decent living, a clean environment, free public education and health care, cultural revival and popular sports.
The KKE combines the struggle for the daily problems of the working people with the struggle that will lead to the transfer of power into the hands of the people, to the people's power that will organise the people's economy.
It is working steadily to build the alliance of the working class with the small and medium-sized peasantry, the small and medium-sized enterprises, the youth and women.
The KKE cares for the social and political unity that the country needs, for the building of the popular front, which will emerge as the great counterweight.
This alliance will inspire great struggles, will cultivate the soil of popular self-activity and initiative.
It will prevent the worst from happening, it will extract conquests, while setting sail for the main purpose, which is the conquest of power.
The March 7 elections can help to take a step forward.
With a strong KKE fighting together with other radical forces
A firm, unwavering answer is given to the two-party system, which wants the people to be fatalistic and lacking in self-confidence.
A step forward is taken to raise the popular struggle to the level of a dynamic mass counter-attack.
The effectiveness of the popular movement is increasing.
The processes for an anti-imperialist anti-monopoly popular alliance, the popular counterweight, are accelerated.
The struggle to prevent the removal of democratic rights and conquests, increasing authoritarianism and repression is being strengthened.
The struggle for the defence of culture and the great fighting traditions of our people is gaining new momentum.
For the patriotic, internationalist solidarity of peoples, against racism, nationalism, cosmopolitanism of capital.
The struggle against war and the participation of Greece in the terrorist and military plans of the American and European imperialists is growing.
It is a message of hope and perspective beyond the country's borders.
The contribution of the Greek people to international coordination, at European and world level, against the forces of imperialism, against war, is growing.
They deliberately put the false question to the people, which of the two parties, PASOK or ND, is better than the other.And they are fighting over who will give even more profits to big capital.
Behind the big words of the New Democracy and PASOK, the loud slogans, the flatteries for the people, the youth and women, behind all these, about a new beginning and a new era, about a new style and ethos, about changes and reversals, are their anti-people's plans.
If they maintain and increase their strengths, regardless of who is first or second, both will continue unabated. In their drawers are hidden new unpopular measures
They have the same programs, the same goals and objectives.
Both parties are determined to proceed to a new round of attack on people's rights, under the slogan of "productivity" and "competitiveness", "convergence", the participation of Greece in the so-called hard core of the European Union.
Both parties are interested in the congratulations of the EU, the US and NATO.
The PASOK government with its policy, with the European myth of convergence within the EU, with its false declarations of socialism, is trying to cover up what has systematically inflated the profits of the plutocracy.
It was the only one that benefited from the PASOK development. For the people it brought suffering, insecurity, the removal of conquests and a reduction in real income.
The government - with George Papandreou as Foreign Minister - proceeded to a new cession of sovereign rights of the country, of the people.
With the Madrid Agreement between Simitis and Demirel, with its signature in the EU Treaty in Helsinki, with the Open Skies Agreement, it tolerated the contestation of the borders in the Aegean.
He agreed to refer all the issues raised by the Turkish leadership to the Hague Tribunal.
Instead of standing by Cyprus, it put pressure on the Cypriot leadership, presenting the US and the EU as guarantors of a just solution to the Cyprus problem.
With PASOK in government, Greece took an active part in the imperialist wars of conquest against Yugoslavia, Afghanistan and Iraq.
Simitis and G. Papandreou were congratulated by Clinton and Bush.
PASOK made a change in its leadership, in order to fool voters that something will supposedly change in its politics, but also to take a step in the disguise of the political scene.
Its policy, however, remains the same.
After all, the new president is co-responsible. The only new thing the new president brings is new attempts at popular deception.
The New Democracy (ND) is a scapegoat for the people's problems and demagogues uncontrollably, while it too has the interests of capital as its "god"
, serves EMU
and NATO,
and attempts to mislead the workers, while it is ready to implement and extend all the anti-worker and anti-democratic laws of PASOK.
Just as, moreover, PASOK maintained all the anti-labour laws passed by ND.
The Southwest supported the foreign policy of PASOK.
For the sake of appearances alone, it voted against government choices on various popular problems, arguing on minor and procedural issues.
As an official opposition, if it wanted to, it could have put serious obstacles in the way of government policy, but it resorted to the safety of demagogic criticism.
PASOK and ND want to prevent the popular movement from challenging capitalist profits and the laws of the capitalist market.
It is a fairy tale that there can be a social policy for the people, when their general political line is based on the profits of capital and integration into the imperialist order.
It is an insult to the people's intelligence to present the crumbs of wage and pension increases as social policy.
They give alms, which they take back with the other hand.
Leftists have no reason to trust the SYN's ballot papers
He is insolvent and dishonest.
In the run-up to the elections, he has been raising the anti-PASOK and anti-capitalist rhetoric, while in all previous years, even today, he has supported the capitalist unification of the EU, the EMU and the Eurostate.
At critical times, when it was necessary to strengthen popular action, it tolerated the anti-people's measures.
It offered an alibi and a "fig leaf" to the PASOK government.
In crucial fields of action, such as the trade union movement
and local government, he cooperated systematically with PASOK.
It fostered illusions in left-wing and progressive people about the character and strategy of PASOK.
The partnership, which bears the name "Unity of the Left", deliberately does not clarify how it sees the issue of governance, how it will be politicised if it is in government.
In the pre-election period, it raises the tone against PASOK, while leaving a "blurred landscape" in the post-election period.
What this force represents is quite obvious, since it cultivates the illusion of peaceful coexistence between capital and workers, exploiters and their victims.
When SYN talks about realism, it always means compromise and submission.
Its anti-Americanism is empty, since it opposes it to EU imperialism.
Leftists, vote on the ballot papers of the KKE with the cooperating radical forces.
Join the KKE.
We have a lot in common.
We can discuss any differences in the common action.
There is one option in reality: With the people. With the people.
It is not realism to bow our heads, to expect sensitivity from the bourgeois parties and their governments, for the majority of the people to keep losing and the few to keep gaining more.
It is not realism to declare ourselves weak in the face of EU and NATO choices.
To accept the Eurostrate and the "terror laws", the theories of soft and hard drugs. Living with electronic files.
Realism is the political proposal of the KKE.
It is a proposal that expresses broader popular interests, respects differences and can be supported by all those who want consistent resistance, who want a change of politics and power and not a change of guard.
WE SURE CAN!
Historical experience shows this.
Without the great class struggles, the social and political confrontations of previous generations, the situation would have been much worse.
Historical experience proves that the peoples won conquests when the movement was strong and consistent and the Communist Party was strengthened.
