PASOK is planning its policy for the next four years with the strength of experience and self-criticism.
We are planning today for the Greece that is coming.
A Greece that ensures a just, open and free society in which the fundamental principles of equality, freedom, meritocracy and social cohesion prevail.
A Greece that claims and plays a role in the world order.
A Greece of the future.
Our timeless change
In the first period of the country's governance, together we achieved the enlargement of democracy.
We have ended the social exclusion of the majority of our people.
We have achieved a significant redistribution of income with the aim of social justice.
We developed the welfare state
and strengthened decentralisation
and representative institutions.
In our second period of government we have achieved unprecedented rates of economic growth and ensured economic stability in a climate of social consensus.
Significant investments have been made to upgrade the country's infrastructure.
We have secured a new environment of economic security with Greece's entry into the euro area and we have finally got rid of the exchange rate storms that plagued Greece for half a century.
In the new era ahead of us, our key objective is a harmonious combination of growth, stability, competitiveness, social cohesion and participation.
We are planning for even faster economic growth, with social justice and even greater economic stability.
Our era is characterised by rapid developments in the field of technology, which in turn lead to major economic and social transformations.
The distances are reset to zero.
The internet is bringing people closer and closer together.
As buyers, sellers, producers, consumers.
But first and foremost as citizens.
The production process is changing radically, but also the distribution of products and the provision of services,
entertainment, cultural production.
Our goal is for Greek society to be strengthened by these developments and to use them to ensure both prosperity and peace.
In our region, in Europe and in the world.
No progressive person can plan for the future without taking into account the new possibilities brought by the technological revolution.
At the same time, progressive citizens and especially the younger generation are looking to the future and see not only great opportunities but also great risks.
We consider it the greatest duty of our policy to invest in the dissemination of technology on the basis of equal opportunities.
There is a need to take many important decisions that will determine the future of the country.
PASOK is ready because it has the vision, but also the ability, the will and the experience to make it happen.
Our vision is to put the citizen at the heart of our political operation.
Our vision is a civil society, a knowledge society.
Our vision is to upgrade the public debate through a new partnership with society.
The vision and the goal is to create a society of values.
To unleash all creative forces and innovate while respecting the pluralism of views.
Finally, our vision is real growth, that is, growth that is not at the expense of the freedoms of future generations.
A precondition for all this is Participatory Democracy.
For the mobilization of Hellenism.
For the liberation of all forces.
To address new developments at global level.
Participatory democracy is not a slogan or a simple process.
It is a new understanding that citizens have of their responsibilities towards themselves and towards society as a whole.
It is the notion that instead of waiting for the faceless State, the politicians, the bureaucracy, to solve our problems, we should take the initiative ourselves.
Participatory Democracy is still the institutional framework that will enable and strengthen participatory citizens' initiatives.
In this respect, Participatory Democracy is a combination of Political Good and Individual Responsibility.
Participatory democracy guarantees development.
It contributes to the fair redistribution of wealth, gives new meaning to social measures, strengthens the opinion, education of all, creates truly equal opportunities for all, integrates immigrants into society, forging social cohesion.
In the next four years we want to introduce a new type of governance, that of open society and participatory democracy.
It is a proposal for change and will characterise the structural changes that our programme brings.
Big problems cannot be solved by the state or the market alone.
They are solved by the active action of knowledgeable citizens.
Who know the problems.
Who have alternatives.
Who decide to promote solutions.
That harness the market mechanisms and the abilities of all of us against discrimination.
Achieving the common future requires an active democratic state.
We are creating a state that allows these goals to be achieved.
A state that expresses the social will for progress.
Standing by every new, creative mobilisation of citizens.
A state without inefficiency due to the lack of coordination between the actors of economic development.
All its actions must be transparent and accessible to the citizen.
We are creating a State constituted in new forms of direct democracy, such as referendums.
It has sustainable development tools.
It promotes and institutionalises a new wave of democratic decentralisation.
This requires active and responsible civil servants to serve this new vision.
In this context, we will move decisively to upgrade the public administration internally.
In order to achieve growth, to ensure prosperity, to ensure human security in the framework of the Participatory Democracy we envision, we will move boldly, decisively and non-negotiably in the following directions:
A) Investing in people and giving priority to employment, especially our young people, so that through modern and quality education, re-education, training and lifelong learning services they can broaden their choices and face the challenge of entering the labour market with confidence and assurance.
On employment in particular, we need to fight hard.
Unemployment is a devaluation of man.
That is why we have put together an innovative package of measures to combat it.
B) Structural policies, development priorities and quality of life, in economic development by promoting structural policies that will improve both our productive capacity in the international competitive environment and the quality of life in our rural and urban centres.
C) Macroeconomic stability and developmental resource management, to maintain and further strengthen macroeconomic stability so that our income maintains its market value and at the same time our country becomes a pole of attraction for new entrepreneurial and innovative activities.
D) Human security: social cohesion and social policy, in the challenge of creating an environment of "human security" we adopt a matrix of policies for:
Combating unemployment, poverty and social exclusion.
Reducing inequalities in the distribution of income and wealth.
Adopting a sustainable and strong welfare and social protection system.
Ensuring equal access and high quality services in education,
health, welfare and social security.
E) A new model of governance, in the strengthening of administrative structures and decentralized participatory institutions throughout Greece, so that in every corner of our country the citizen feels that he/she participates in the decision-making process and co-shapes the development outcome through mechanisms of full transparency.
F) A Greece strong in Europe and in the world
Our vision for a growth with employment and prosperity for all is linked to the acceleration of the real and social convergence of our country with other European countries.
In this context, the Convergence Charter has been drawn up and is a binding and integral part of our Programme.
Six grand challenges - six policy packages for sustainable development and human security.
Our government programme is the result of a dialogue with the productive classes and social actors.
We believe that government programmes are judged not only by their intentions, but above all by their effectiveness.
This is only guaranteed by the participation of the active citizen in its formation.
That is why our programme is at the same time an open document of dialogue with active citizens.
We invite every citizen to judge, approve and evaluate it and, above all, to enrich it with the power of their experience and knowledge.
We are living in an era of intense economic, social and political transformations on a global scale, reinforced by rapid technological developments, the globalisation process and the enormous impact of knowledge on the production and organisation of economies and societies.
Joining EMU, as our country's key investment for the future, has made the Greek economy stronger and more resilient to international pressures and fluctuations.
At the same time, however, increased internal competition at the European level is putting beneficial pressure on Greek businesses, which, in one sense, creates more favourable conditions for the exploitation of the creativity and entrepreneurial spirit of Greeks.
The changes are creating a more favourable environment for entrepreneurship and enhancing the ability of Greek businesses, 99% of which are small and medium-sized enterprises, to become more competitive and outward-looking.
This, in some cases, certainly implies exploiting the economies of scale resulting from a single European market with a common currency, which of course does not exclude mergers and acquisitions at a pan-European level.
The recognition at European level of the role of SMEs in growth and employment is particularly positive.
Already, building on the Lisbon Council decisions, the European Charter for Small Enterprises and the Green Paper on Entrepreneurship, a major package of measures and funding is underway to support the 20 million SMEs in the European Union.
These developments, together with the integration of social cohesion, employment, consumer and environmental protection policies into the European sustainable development strategy, are key to increasing social acceptance of entrepreneurship and facilitating business activity.
In this context, entrepreneurship as an expression of creativity and a key pillar of prosperity is now being introduced as a subject in education and as a concept in the operations of even the public sector.
Encouraging and expanding entrepreneurship involves employees, the
unemployed, the
self-employed,
young people,
women,
people with disabilities,
social cooperatives and enterprises,
crafts, subcontracting and joint ventures A
condition for the competitiveness of a business today is the implementation of policies and plans for technological modernisation, innovation, quality, design, standardisation, training.
At the same time, the social sensitivity and responsibility of businesses is promoted and developed, as their development strategy incorporates their ecological reorientation because it is now known to raise awareness among citizens and consumers.
Thus, eco-design turns the ecological challenge into a business advantage and creates business opportunities.
In this environment, competition and risks are increasing, but at the same time new opportunities and possibilities for access to markets, capital and technologies are being created for those countries and companies that mobilise to meet the challenge.
It is now obvious that Greek business can exist in today's free global economy only as a globally competitive enterprise.
The vision of growth for the Greek economy over the next four years is to transform it into an economy based on a well-trained workforce, the widespread diffusion of new technologies throughout the productive fabric and open to the world and the challenges of competition.
An economy and a country producing and delivering modern knowledge-intensive products and services.
An economy based on the following eight pillars:
Investing in human capital.
Knowledge, which is the result of general education, but also of specialisation, training and lifelong learning, is the main component of growth in today's world.
Knowledge does not stop with formal secondary or higher education degrees.
It is both accumulating and renewing at a very fast pace and it requires citizens to participate in this renewal.
Strengthening entrepreneurship and extroversion of the economy.
Our country is a country with many small businesses and, in proportion to the population, with the most freelancers in the EU.
Our policy aims at reducing barriers to entrepreneurship, increasing the size of enterprises, their better organisation, their more complete financing and, of course, their export orientation, with an emphasis on both the developed markets of Europe and the neighbouring countries of South-East Europe.
Investing in new technologies and innovation, particularly in the new fields of information technology, communications, biotechnology, new materials, in close connection with the productive sector which it feeds and renews with new ideas, products and services.
The knowledge and information economy is becoming an increasingly important contributor to value added worldwide and is expected to continue at the same pace in the future.
Investing in the country's comparative advantages, such as tourism and shipping.
In tourism, our goal is a drastically improved quality of service delivery, modern infrastructure, a diversified and enriched tourism product with the development of thematic and alternative forms of tourism, based on enhanced distribution and transport networks.
Tourism that fully exploits and highlights the cultural heritage
and the intense variety of the natural environment of our country.
To date, the geographical peculiarity of our country, the existence of remote continental areas and small islands have resulted in the extraction of significant resources for their connection with the rest of the country, the provision of public utilities, the maintenance of schools, medical services, etc.
We are turning this cost into a tourist advantage to further boost regional development.
Competitive agriculture, environmentally friendly, adapted to the needs of the modern consumer, producing and marketing both traditional agricultural products and products with designation of origin, organic crops, characterised by sustainable agricultural enterprises, linked to the processing and trade sector and with a strong export character.
Investing in modern telecommunications and transport infrastructure.
We will emphasise the development of broadband networks, but also land and sea transport.
Our connection with the neighbouring Balkan countries and the rest of Europe, as well as with other Mediterranean countries, reduces the cost of transporting products and increases the competitiveness of Greek businesses.
Effective public administration.
The reduction of bureaucracy, the simplification of licensing for investments, the introduction of private economic criteria in the management of public utilities, hospitals, insurance funds and other legal entities under public law, as well as the computerization of the central administration and local authorities, are necessary steps to increase the efficiency of the public sector, which is a prerequisite for the competitiveness of the economy.
An effective regulatory environment that ensures conditions of healthy competition, consumer protection, as well as the safety and soundness of the financial system, and that substantially supports investment and economic activity, offering modern services to citizens and businesses and making our country an economic centre for the wider region.
Strong Greek businesses in a competitive European market.
Business activities that achieve the accumulation of human capital, capital goods and value added.
Local government has an important role to play in providing opportunities for small and medium-sized enterprises.
Incentives for greater investment in the region and the development of an appropriate legal framework that favours such investment.
A key direction of our programme is to complete the liberalisation of markets and professions in order to create opportunities for all citizens through strategic dialogue processes with the relevant stakeholders.
A stable tax system, renewed, simplified and objectified.
In 2004, the Greek economy is projected to grow at 4.2%, more than double the EU average (1.9%).
This is the ninth consecutive year in which the growth rate of the Greek economy has significantly exceeded the European average, which means that real convergence is gradually taking place, i.e. the convergence of the real incomes of Greek citizens with the average European income.
Cumulatively, in the period 1996-2004, the gross domestic product of the Greek economy grew by 16 percentage points more than that of the European Union, which is a major achievement of the governments of the previous eight years.
This progress is confirmed by a number of individual Eurostat indicators.
The average wage of a Greek worker in constant exchange rate units in 2004 is 88.4% of the European average, compared to 72.3% in 1994 and 80% in 2000.
Gross national product per employee, also in constant purchasing power parities, in 2004 is 94.2% of the European average and is around the same level as in Spain (95.2%) and Germany (96.8%), closing a gap of about 16 percentage points since 1994 and 10 percentage points since 2000.
It is also indicative that Portugal's corresponding indicator in 2004 is only 62.7% of the European average.
This means a dramatic increase in labour productivity which signals the great benefits that can be reaped from increased employment.
Growth rates will be maintained
Without disturbing macroeconomic balances, the prospects for further growth of the Greek economy and real convergence over the period 2004-2008 are expected to be very favourable.
The average growth rate is projected to remain at 4%, driven by public and private investment.
The implementation of the programmes of the Third Community Support Framework, the emerging recovery of the European economy and the positive effects of the successful organisation of the Olympic Games are some of the factors that ensure this prospect.
An important role in the spectacular growth of the economy over the last eight years has been played by the increase in resources for investment.
For many years Greece has been improving its infrastructure and investing significant amounts of money to modernise its production base, with the aim of improving its competitiveness.
In recent years, investment spending has stabilised at over 20% of GDP, the highest in the European Union.
The average growth rate of investment over the last ten years has been around 8%, another record by European standards.
Today, public investment absorbs 21% of public spending, also the highest in the European Union.
Infrastructure improves quality of life
The country is changing shape rapidly.
The conditions for further growth are changing just as quickly.
The Olympic projects in Athens and the other Olympic cities will contribute decisively to the upgrading of infrastructure and the environment.
Attiki Odos, the extensions of the Metro and the tram will significantly reduce the travel time of millions of citizens, while at the same time promoting the use of public transport.
Citizen's useful time is increased and the reduction of pollutants will significantly improve the quality of life.
At the same time, investments in hospitals, educational institutions and citizen service centres contribute decisively to the faster and more balanced development of the Greek region and bring the welfare state closer to the citizens of the region.
In addition, the post-Olympic use of the projects will generate significant revenues for the public sector.
The Rio-Antirrio bridge, the major roads such as PATHE and Egnatia Road, but also many smaller-scale projects being carried out throughout the Greek periphery, significantly reduce distances and transport costs, which increases the average productivity of the economy and the efficiency of private investment.
At the same time, the new look of Athens can make it an attractive tourist destination again, a prospect that is expected to encourage private investment in hotels, marinas, etc.
Major projects are a public good that complements all forms of private investment.
Businesses without access to airports, motorways, modern telecommunications, port facilities and convenient transport perform less well than businesses with easy access to such infrastructure.
Thus, investment in infrastructure projects mobilises private initiative and leads to self-sustaining growth.
For this reason, they will continue to be a central pillar of our economic policy.
By the end of the Olympic Games, approximately 45% of the funds of the Third Community Support Framework will have been absorbed.
Therefore, for the period 2005-2007, the investment funds available from the EU amount to approximately 13 billion euros, which, combined with the national contribution, ensure the financing of investment programmes exceeding 25 billion euros (16% of GDP).
In addition, the national resources that in recent years have been concentrated on financing Olympic projects, totalling around 5% of GDP, will be released and can be directed to financing projects in the periphery.
Therefore, for the period up to 2008, the resources to maintain public investment at current high levels are secured, given that fiscal management is conducted within a strict framework of rules aimed at further reducing deficits and accelerating the reduction of public debt.
Today, the share of public investment spending is 21% of the total but national funding is around 14%.
In order to complete the projects we are planning and to make our vision of a competitive economy a reality, it is absolutely necessary to maintain and increase this rate over the next four years.
This is not only desirable but also perfectly feasible, if one takes into account the fact that the debt service expenditure, the most unproductive expenditure of the budget, exceeds by 10 percentage points the most productive one, which consists of investment funds.
Therefore, despite the progress made in recent years, the current composition of expenditure is not compatible with the development orientation of economic management and comparisons highlight the existing potential.
Therefore, one of the major priorities for the next four years will be to reduce public debt more rapidly.
It is therefore necessary to return primary surpluses to the levels they were at during the convergence period, i.e. at 5% of GDP.
This, combined with an average growth rate of 4%, can reduce public debt as a percentage of GDP to 70%, which is the current European average.
Such an adjustment, at the end of the period, releases resources of around four billion euros, resources capable of increasing by 50% the resources allocated to fixed equipment or human capital infrastructure.
In addition, during the 2005-6 biennium, negotiations will take place on the 4th CIP, through which infrastructure projects will be co-financed for the eight years up to 2014.
It is therefore important that negotiations on an issue of such vital importance be conducted by a government that has actively demonstrated its negotiating ability in this area as well, namely the PASOK government.
The basic budgetary rule from 2004 will be that current expenditure will be covered by Budget revenues.
In addition, the basic financial planning framework will be established on a four-year basis, with priorities subsequently reflected in the annual budgets.
Clear and measurable targets will also be set for each Ministry when spending is approved.
This will provide the possibility to assess expenditure against objectives, as well as the possibility to review its relevance.
At the same time, the tax system will be used more as a tool for growth, providing incentives to boost investment in human capital, i.e. knowledge and fixed equipment.
Moving in this direction, the government announced the gradual reduction of the maximum personal income tax rate from 40% to 35% by the end of the next four years.
The same applies to investments that promote the technological and cognitive potential of the Greek economy or that stimulate the merging and modernisation of our businesses.
The recent measure to create tax-free reserves of up to 35% of companies' profits for five years to be used for investment activities is a correct and courageous initiative.
In the same direction is our policy to gradually reduce the tax rate on limited companies from 35% to 30%, with the prospect of a further reduction to 25%.
Finally, the whole network of tax incentives and disincentives is an effective tool for a more active policy towards environmental protection and the introduction of more environmentally friendly technologies in the production process, possibilities that, to date, have not been exploited to the extent that they have been in other European countries.
By implementing these targets, budget revenues can be increased in the medium to long term, while tax rates can be reduced.
Despite high growth rates, unemployment remains one of the thorny problems of the Greek economy.
Apart from the significant social consequences, especially for young people, it is also an important indicator of the non-rational use of the most important development resource, which is human resources.
Unemployment does not affect all categories of the population in the same way and with the same intensity.
Unemployment among young people aged 15-24 in 2002 was 25.8%, compared to 9.6% of the total population.
Moreover, the unemployment rate of young women in 2002 was much higher than that of men in the same age group, 33.6% compared to 19.6%.
In contrast, the unemployment rate for men over 25 is only 5.2%, which is very low even by European standards (5.8%).
Finally, 52.8% of the unemployed in 2002 were long-term unemployed, i.e. unemployed for more than 12 months.
The conclusion that can be drawn almost effortlessly from the above data is that high growth rates do not automatically eliminate social injustices in the employment sector.
Bold measures and targeted policies are needed, particularly in terms of mobilising and integrating young people into the labour market and quickly adapting the skills of the unemployed to its needs.
Policy interventions in this area are presented in detail in other chapters of the programme.
With the country's entry into EMU, keeping inflation down to levels that maintain or even improve competitiveness is crucial, since we no longer have the tool of devaluation available.
However, in 2003, Greek inflation remains significantly higher than in the Eurozone (3.5% compared to 2.1%), while during our three years of participation in the monetary union a gap of 4.5 percentage points has accumulated to the detriment of the Greek economy.
The main factors that sustain the inflation differential are:
The first factor is high growth rates, which are estimated to exceed the critical thresholds below which economic growth is not accompanied by inflationary pressures.
So to the extent that part of the inflation is due to overheating of sectors of the economy, the problem is addressed in the long run by expanding productive capacity and productivity growth, i.e. by more investment.
This is the direction we will move in.
The second factor is the negative impact of monetary policy due to the asymmetry of the economic cycle between Greece and the Eurozone.
The slowdown in economic activity in the Eurozone led to a reduction in the European Central Bank's interventionist interest rates, which helped to maintain high rates of growth in domestic demand, mainly through mortgage and consumer loans.
We will address this problem by negotiating an effective monetary policy at the European level in the context of our external economic policy.
After a thirty-year experience of high inflation, a greater tolerance for inflation has developed than in the countries of central and northern Europe.
At this point, our political system is not without responsibility.
Our aim is to radically change the framework for the functioning of internal markets, which is still privileged and inward-looking.
We are responding with policies to boost competition, liberalising closed professions and linking the improvement of living standards to the competitiveness of the economy.
In the mid-1990s we launched a major programme of structural reforms for the benefit of the consumer, employment, investment and the growth prospects of the Greek economy.
Under PASOK's policies, Greece has already benefited from structural reforms and its gradual integration into the international economic system.
But it can benefit even more from faster opening and increased competitiveness.
Our goal for the next four years is to take advantage of the new opportunities created by the integration of markets on a global scale and to make the economy's extroversion a new source of growth.
The restructuring of state-owned enterprises has proceeded intensively through the sale of blocks of shares on the capital market and their transfer to private initiative.
In recent years, we have pursued an "aggressive" policy in the field of privatizations, both in the acquisition of shares in public enterprises such as OTE, OPAP, PPC, Hellenic Energy Corporation, HELPE, etc., and in privatizations such as Ionian Bank, ETVA, the Skoramagas Shipyards, the Corinth Canal, etc.
The benefits of the 1994-2002 privatisations have been significant:
The revenues from privatisations in the period 1994-2004 were about €19 billion (only €35 million in the period 1991-93).
We have substantially improved the management and efficiency of these companies with elected boards.
New forms of privatisations contribute more to attracting foreign investment and enhancing the competitiveness and extroversion of the economy.
The role of the state in its operation has been reduced (the number of banks directly or indirectly under state control fell from 10 in 1995 to 3).
We also moved to remove restrictions that reduced competition.
They have been fully liberalised, attracting investment, much of it from abroad, creating new businesses, creating thousands of new jobs and bringing down the cost of telephony to the EU average.
They have been gradually liberalised through increased competition, the creation of new connections, flexible pricing policies and improved services.
The monopoly was formally abolished at the beginning of 2001.
In electricity generation, we created a new institutional framework for sustainable private investment.
In renewables, 32 certificates required for a production licence were abolished and investments were accelerated without compromising quality.
In gas, a strategic investor in DEPA is being promoted.
We have constitutionally enshrined the function of the independent authorities for the supervision of markets (Competition Commission, EETT, RAE, RATHE), giving them greater administrative and financial autonomy.
Our concerted effort to boost export and investment activity is bearing fruit.
According to a recent OECD study where 30 countries are assessed for the existence of barriers to foreign direct investment, Greece ranks 9th best.
In recent years, a key objective of the government and supervisors has been to strengthen the institutional framework and infrastructure for capital market supervision.
These interventions were aimed at protecting investors, increasing efficiency, liquidity and transparency in the market, strengthening the protection of the trading and clearing system and the proper functioning of the corporate bond market.
Interventions in this direction recommend:
Updating the codes of conduct for market intermediaries to protect investors from unfair behaviour.
The amendment to the Code of Conduct for Institutional Investors, which introduces incompatibility between different positions.
The completion of the professional certification programme for capital market executives.
The operation of a new institution, the Capital Market Ombudsman, aiming at the consensual settlement of disputes between brokerage firms and their clients.
The measures to improve the regime for conducting short selling and the provision of specialised trading services.
The institutionalisation of the possibility to manage orders for a group of investors.
The strengthening of the obligation of SSEs to prepare half-yearly and annual financial statements audited by a chartered accountant and the obligation to submit them at regular intervals.
The modernisation of the terms and conditions of operation of the Guarantee Fund and the procedure for the effective operation of the Provident Fund.
The adoption of laws on corporate governance, international accounting standards and corporate bonds.
The modernisation of the Mergers and Acquisitions Regulation.
The full privatisation of Hellenic Financial Markets Authority (HFSF) while strengthening the supervisory and regulatory role of the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Structural and institutional reforms are a central strategic choice in the framework of PASOK's economic policy.
They are necessary for the Greek economy to continue to grow at a high rate even after the completion of the Olympic Games and the 3rd CSF projects.
It is key to the convergence and transformation of society.
At the same time, extroversion can give the economy another growth dynamic.
Accelerate the privatisation programme by promoting privatisations and strategic alliances to further reduce the state's involvement in economic activity.
The result will be revenues of 1-2% of GDP each year until 2008, which will reduce the public debt in equal measure.
Criteria include increasing competition and attracting new investment, universal and adequate provision of basic utilities, maintaining strategic influence on large companies in critical sectors (energy, telecommunications).
Strict supervision and technological modernisation to enhance efficiency and rational management.
Drawing up detailed and binding management contracts.
Implement the energy market liberalisation programme, promote liberalisation in other sectors (transport, postal services).
New institutional framework for telecommunications.
Aiming for 20% of the fixed telephony market, 10% of energy production to come from alternative operators by 2008 and telecoms prices below the EU average.
Strengthening the role, better coordination of independent regulators in product, services and capital markets.
Monitoring product prices, enhancing the dissemination of information on prices, products and services.
Strengthening the institutional framework for the operation of markets in conditions of healthy and fair competition.
Standardisation of fruit and vegetables, strengthening of the infrastructure of central cash and carry markets, etc.
Strengthening consumer organisations and consumer awareness.
The Information Society is first and foremost a society and a key factor for growth and prosperity.
Its technological dimension is the main part of it, but in fact it is only one aspect of it.
The Information Society is emerging through a set of transformations in organisational structures, social relations and individual and collective behaviours.
We are experiencing such a social transformation driven by information and communication technologies.
Therefore, the convergence of digital technology use indicators is seen as a key component of real convergence.
Moving towards digital convergence is a precondition for economic convergence.
For its realisation, it requires the support and consensus not only of the political world, but also of all sectors and actors in a long-lasting coalition.
These principles cannot be a short-term choice of governments.
It is characteristic that spending on investment in information and communication technologies as a percentage of GDP in Greece is now converging with the EU average.
Developing broadband access infrastructure across the country, under the ongoing programme, at a cost of around €200 million.
This infrastructure will enable uninterrupted and high-speed Internet access and promote the application of telemedicine, tele-education, tele-working, etc.
Broadband access is a prerequisite for the Information Society, infrastructure and the new economy, the knowledge society, improved productivity, new growth applications and better and friendlier public sector operation.
Network and communications security.
Our country was chosen to host the European Network and Information Security Agency.
Secure networks facilitate the application of the potential of electronic communications and new technologies to business, public administration, transparency, raising awareness of population groups and strengthening their participation in democratic processes.
Further upgrading of the Universal Service, i.e. the minimum set of telecommunications services to which all Greeks are entitled, anywhere in the country, at affordable prices.
Digital convergence towards the European average: a tool for building the Information Society.
In a few years, citizens will be served in all their dealings with the public administration from their office or home or the broadband administrative centre in their area, without having to go to more offices.
The widespread use of digital technology raises the average productivity of the economy.
Access to broadband networks for all schools, hospitals, libraries, municipalities and other public administration bodies.
All public administration services to citizens and businesses will be accessible to all on the Internet.
An increase to 1.5 % (as a percentage of GDP) of research spending.
Regional convergence - growth throughout the country
The policy of the PASOK government over the last decade has led not only to convergence with EU countries, but also to regional convergence within the country.
The results of our development policy are spreading to all regions and counties.
We have adopted important measures for regional development and rural reconstruction by investing significant funds:
80% of the total resources of the new Development Programme, i.e. €40 billion, were allocated for projects and interventions in the country's regions.
More than 30% of the resources of the 3rd CSF, i.e. 3.7 trillion (compared to 2 trillion in the 2nd CSF) were allocated to the Regional Programmes, which are the specialised instrument for the implementation of regional policy.
Regions with more pronounced development problems have received particularly large amounts of aid, approaching the level of doubling of the per capita aid.
Another important tool of regional policy was and is the development law, which boosts private investment.
Investments under the Development Law have increased steadily over the last five years, with positive rates of change for almost all regions.
The results of these choices are visible in Greek society.
Contrary to the general picture in Europe, in our country we have a clear trend of decreasing regional disparities.
Inequalities in our country are among the lowest in Europe and there is a substantial process of inter-regional convergence.
Based on the Public Investment Programme and the assistance of Community funds, we are filling decades-old gaps.
The completion of this programme will lead to a Greece without disadvantaged, isolated or inaccessible areas where everyone can enjoy a satisfactory level of social services.
Improving the quality of life is related to reducing the feeling of isolation in the Region, especially in remote areas.
The promotion of major inter-regional projects, the national and provincial road network in the Region, reduces distances and facilitates the daily life of citizens.
The modernisation of urban and interurban transport that is being promoted brings rural residents closer to the city and urban centres.
Soon the transport picture will be different from what we have known for decades.
In maritime transport, the picture has already changed.
The networking of the Regions with the introduction of new communication and information technologies, which we continue to promote, reduces distances in space and time and benefits mainly the citizens in the Region.
Linking local activities with local production, especially of high quality traditional products (designation of origin).
Thus, local products act as catalysts for local development and the added value of local production is multiplied.
Around 50% of the resources for the development of the region are allocated to promote activities such as alternative forms of tourism and the protection and exploitation of the cultural and environmental assets of each region, which provide an important outlet for rural residents while improving their quality of life.
Ensuring high quality accompanying services to new entrepreneurship in the Greek regions.
The network of structures being created throughout Greece, with the Investor Reception Centres (ERCs), the Business and Technology Development Centres (BTCs), the Local Action Groups, etc., aims at the decentralised provision of high quality information services, the effective monitoring of competitiveness in the Greek Regions and the development of entrepreneurship through an extensive network of services for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs.
Local development and rural regeneration are based on social consensus, with the establishment of a partnership between local government and economic and social actors.
The formulation of local development programmes follows a bottom-up approach with social consultation, capable of rallying and mobilising.
It was characterised by tax reductions, simplification in the application of the provisions, objectification and transparency in controls, systematic and honest dialogue with all professional bodies of traders and craftsmen.
PASOK's pre-election commitments in 2000 have been implemented in their entirety.
The maximum tax rate for employees and pensioners was reduced from 45% to 40%.
The tax-free threshold was increased by 60%, which far exceeds the four-year inflation rate.
The homeowner's tax was abolished.
The tax-free allowance for the acquisition of a first home was increased by 100%.
The tax on inheritances was reduced by 30%.
Families with children studying in another city are supported with 1000 Euro per year and for as long as the studies last.
Unemployed parents with children at school are supported with 150 Euros to cover the costs of starting the school term.
Exempted large families from the tax on cars up to 2000 cubic meters.
The presumption of income for cars with a factory value of up to 50,000 has been abolished.
The amounts relating to the introduction and use of new technologies by the Greek family (educational software, Internet access costs) were included in the expenses deductible from income.
The transfer of a business from parents to children or between them on retirement was exempted from tax.
Passing on by inheritance, donation, parental provision or by force majeure (sale) of the business or shop from generation to generation within the same family is now almost without financial burden.
To date, the charge has been in the order of 20%.
With the new measures it fell to 0.6% to 2.4% depending on the degree of kinship.
Small sole proprietorships in villages with less than 1000 inhabitants were exempted from the tax.
The payment of overdue debts will be made in up to 48 instalments with the possibility of adjusting the specific number exclusively by the taxpayer.
Cheap oil for small and medium-sized enterprises and industries is provided at a tax of 125 per tonne from 245 until recently.
Presumptions for the establishment and operation of a business were abolished.
The tax rate for unlisted joint stock companies was reduced from 40% to 35%.
Reduced the tax memory of the company to three years from ten years up to 2002.
Eliminated the off-balance sheet determination of profits for all business activities.
The accounting determination of net profits of all enterprises with a B-class book with the possibility of carrying forward losses for three years was established.
The Special Tax on Banking Transactions (SFTE) has been abolished.
All companies are now allowed to set up a tax-free investment reserve of 35% of undistributed profits.
Tax incentives for business mergers have been adopted.
Two depreciation rates, high and low, have been established for each asset and the company has the possibility, based on its financial data, to choose the rate that suits it best.
Until now, a single rate applied to all businesses.
The accounting position of companies has improved with the write-off of bad debts.
The amount of the subsidy received by businesses from OAED programmes was exempted from tax.
Tax control has been objectified.
Fines for tax offences were abolished and replaced by points.
Stability in the tax environment.
Legislation is being codified and new laws are not being passed all the time.
There is only one law for the taxation of all Greeks.
Simplicity in the application of all procedures, especially in the taxation of small businesses, employees and pensioners.
Objectivity in audits and in the selection of the sample of companies to be audited.
Honesty in relations between taxpayers and administration by establishing clear rules everywhere.
Eliminate the subjectivity of auditors.
Reductions in tax rates.
The ceiling for the taxation of citizens' income falls from 40% to 35% in stages until 2008.
The growth effort is strengthened.
500,000 businesses are given the opportunity to set up tax-free reserves in a simple and easy to apply way.
Incentives for small businesses to grow.
Tax incentives are given for mergers of all categories (limited liability companies, limited liability companies, etc.) of commercial, craft and service companies.
Serving taxpayers from home so that the citizen, the businessman, the professional can carry out all his tax-related tasks from home or business.
Everything will be done electronically (via the Internet), by phone, fax or letter, or through bank accounts and cards.
For the few cases where the citizen will need to go to the Tax Office, decent reception areas are created, the Citizen Service Stations (CSS).
In the pilots already in operation, the waiting time is no more than 5 minutes.
The abolition of the Accounting Code in order to move from formalism to the application of international accounting standards.
The consolidation of taxes in favour of local government.
The adoption of a single law codifying taxation in a single text.
The generalisation of the institution of the Citizen Service Station (CPS). Taxpayers will be able to handle all their affairs from a single point of the tax office, avoiding unnecessary wandering from office to office.
The reduction of the tax rate of limited liability companies and limited liability companies to 30% with the prospect of 25% and of partnerships to 20%.
Gradual reduction of the advance payment of income tax.
The introduction of VAT on new properties with the simultaneous complete abolition of transfer tax in order to reduce construction costs, to consolidate the building sector and to tackle tax evasion.
The institutionalisation and operation of the Committee for the Administrative Resolution of Tax Disputes with a majority of social representatives, in order to avoid recourse to the courts and the corresponding costs.
The uniform collection of tax and social security contributions by the tax authorities.
The aim is for every citizen to receive a single insurance and tax certificate.
Tackling financial crime and obscenity through various administrative measures and strengthening the capacity of control through cross-checks.
Reinforcement with staff and resources of control services and guidance:
- Reducing tax evasion.
- Tackling illicit trade.
- Organised financial crime.
- Smuggling of fuel, drinks and cigarettes.
The complete clearance of expenditure so that there are no doubts about what is deductible and what is not, in order to eliminate the phenomenon of accounting differences.
The operation of the amicable settlement committees for tax disputes.
The monthly operation at the Ministry of Economy and Finance of the open discussion committee with all stakeholders.
The operation of a nationwide electronic tax office for the:
- Provision of services to citizens;
- Cross-checking of data for their control.
The creation of an Integrated Information System for Audit Services that will facilitate the immediate detection of irregular practices and allow targeted and systematic control with risk analysis methodologies.
The creation of a Staff Information Management System for the continuous on-line monitoring of the evolution of income-expenditure and budget execution, the monitoring of the performance of measures and policies, the operation and performance of individual Services.
The operation of a cyber-chamber for customs controls and malfunctions in export or movement of persons.
The SAOE is now focusing its action on :
Dealing with Financial Crime (Smuggling, Stock Exchange Fraud, Money Laundering) which is different from tax offences.
The prevention of tax infringements (informing taxpayers, especially new businesses).
In the control of Movement of Goods and Services (Instantaneous Tax Offence).
They will not be treated by the administration as a means of intimidating taxpayers or as "raiders" of summer visits to the islands.
It will alert businesses to potential tax problems, point out good practices and ultimately guide them in their tax activity.
Compliance with the recommendations, as well as enforcement, will be the responsibility of the competent Audit Centres/DOE.
Finally, the selection of the SAO's targets will be subject to objective criteria.
A constant objective of PASOK's policy is to maintain and strengthen the developmental role of the media.
We promote the equal participation of Greek businesses in the developments of international markets, encouraging the efforts and initiatives taken by Greek entrepreneurs to innovate, to become more competitive, more outward-looking.
Our policy aims to facilitate and support entrepreneurship, through the creation of an enabling operating framework and a network of modern infrastructure to ensure that SMEs have access to new knowledge, skills, capital and new markets.
The role of the state must become more executive and much more effective.
Our aim is to promote reforms where necessary, the implementation of new institutional measures, the creation of other modern structures, a new spirit of meritocracy and transparency, the simplification of systems (tax, licensing, auditing, etc.), the abolition of unnecessary administrative requirements, faster and less mediated service to citizens and their business activities.
We believe that the regulatory framework is adapted to the needs of the business, to the specificities of the small business and not the other way round.
We apply stable and clear rules for the supervision of markets, control of quality, safety and hygiene of products, production processes, environmental protection, protection of intellectual property rights.
In this direction, licensing mechanisms, independent authorities, quality control centres, citizen service centres, one-stop shops for investors, audit bodies, etc. are being modernised and developed.
Incentive policies are being adopted to boost entrepreneurship in the region to exploit the untapped growth potential of each region and tax exemptions for new investments and high-risk businesses, creating a long-term dynamic for local development.
Report
Support to improve productivity and competitiveness
80% of the resources allocated so far under the Competitiveness Programme have been allocated to SMEs.
Specifically approved were:
1,500 investments for the creation of new businesses by young people and women.
1,600 reorganisation plans to introduce quality assurance systems.
1,200 proposals from small and medium-sized manufacturing enterprises for the purchase of equipment, reorganisation and acquisition of know-how.
2,500 proposals for the upgrading of accommodation for small and medium-sized tourism businesses.
2,500 proposals from businesses in all sectors to implement programmes for technological modernisation, energy and environmental management, the creation of new knowledge businesses and the implementation of research and innovation projects.
In the framework of the Information Society Programme:
. Theaction "NETWORKING" finances 13,500 micro-enterprises with up to 10 employees, while
the action "BUSINESS IN ELECTRONICS" involves 1,000 small and medium-sized enterprises in order to exploit e-business and other IT and Internet applications.
At the same time, the Regional Operational Programmes (ROPs) finance 3,000 SMEs in manufacturing and tourism, the Rural Reconstruction, Fisheries and LEADER programmes support entrepreneurship in rural areas, young farmers and the processing of primary production, and the Human Resources and Employment Programme supports thousands of businesses in training and upgrading their human resources.
A more favourable tax framework
. Tax rates were reduced from 40% to 35% for non-listed companies and from 45% to 40% for sole proprietorships and from 35% to 25% for partnerships.
. the off-balance-sheet determination of profits was abolished, freeing businesses from potential arbitrariness and fostering the necessary relationship of trust between the state and SMEs.
. 2 depreciation rates were introduced, with a choice of depreciation rates for the company.
. The procedures for validating data and submitting declarations have been simplified, with an overall reduction of 80% in the number of forms to be considered.
. electronic information and certificates have been promoted (tax information, tax identification number, VAT number, ID number, ENTFs).
The tax on the transfer of businesses from parents to children or from husband to wife has been reduced and the goodwill resulting from the transfer of a business from parent to child or between spouses due to retirement is exempted from tax.
The presumptions for the establishment and operation of a business were abolished.
The determination of cases of book rejection was objectified, protecting the company from the possibility of arbitrary rejection of books by the auditing bodies.
The accounting position of companies is improved by writing off bad debts.
Improvement of the Administrative Framework for Small and Medium Enterprises
The time required to set up a company and a limited liability company has been reduced by 25% and the documentation required has been reduced by 25%.
Small businesses with a share capital of less than 300,000 (85% of SAs) are incorporated/registered in one day.
420 procedures were simplified, at least half of which involved businesses.
Investor Reception Centres (IRCs) have been established, one in each prefecture in cooperation with the Prefectural Authorities, as One-Stop Offices to facilitate the licensing process for the establishment, installation and operation of businesses.
There are more than 600 KEPs (Citizen Service Centres) operating throughout the country, which handle 600 cases of citizens and businesses.
One third of these procedures concern businesses.
Law 3016/2002 was passed, which established procedures for the implementation of state aid actions, simplifying the management system and simplifying the activation procedures for SMEs.
The ID on combating late payments in commercial transactions was promoted.
New opportunities for SMEs to access the financial system
Fiscal adjustment and the strengthening of the Greek economy have led to a 15-point reduction in lending rates.
At the same time, the foundations of alternative sources of finance were created with the creation of new financial instruments such as:
The Guarantee Fund for Small and Micro Enterprises (TEMPE) with a share capital of 100 million, which covers up to 80% of the enterprises' liabilities to banks, thus facilitating their access to bank capital.
The New Economy Fund (TANEO) with a share capital of €150 million, active in the field of high risk venture capital and specialised in the new economy sectors.
Mutual Funds of Business Participation for which a more flexible legal framework has been created and their tax treatment improved.
Facilitating access to information and new knowledge Currently there are
13 Business and Technology Development Centres (BTCs), one in each Region with prefectural branches, providing information and advisory support to entrepreneurs and monitoring business demographics.
54 Investor Reception Centres (IRCs) in the Prefectures which, in addition to facilitating licensing, provide information to entrepreneurs.
40 Local Action Groups to support entrepreneurship programmes in rural areas
8 Intermediate Management Bodies throughout Greece to decentralise the management of ERAN funds for SMEs.
The operation of the entrepreneurship boxes.
16 Training Organizations for the familiarization of micro-enterprises with e-business through the operation of which 9,500 micro-enterprises with up to 10 employees have completed this programme.
Improving productive infrastructure and the business environment.
Gas networks in cities and industrial areas.
Projects and programmes for upgrading certification, measurement, testing and inspection bodies (ESYD, ELOT, ELOM, EIM, EFET, Laboratories).
Investment in Research Centres and business partnership programmes.
Programs for the reorganization and computerization of the State Procurement, the Public Supplier Register and the Commercial Register.
Establishment of information and consultation institutions.
Important participation and consultation bodies currently in operation are:
The National Competitiveness and Development Council.
The National Tourism Council.
The SME Observatory.
The e-business Forum in the field of e-business.
The Entrepreneurship Forum.
The Monitoring Committees of the Operational Programmes of the CIP.
Key objectives for the next four years.
New Reforms to Improve the Administrative Framework
The guidelines for the modernisation of the administrative framework that directly affects the country's business community include:
Further shortening the time and reducing the costs required to set up a business with the aim of reducing costs and time to 1/3 of the current level for all forms of business.
Creation of a special tax-free reserve for all companies making investments.
Establishing incentives for mergers and amalgamations.
Establish incentives for scientific and technological research expenditure.
Institutionalising the actors and providing incentives for the development of the social economy with modern and sustainable enterprises.
Facilitate the transfer of a business to its employees.
Establishment of an employee-candidate entrepreneur status with facilities (special leave from work, use of the technological infrastructure of the enterprise), encouragement of the financial participation of the enterprise in the employee's business plan (partial deduction of the participation from tax profits).
Establishment of Entrepreneurship Impact Assessments before and after the introduction of new legislation and regulations.
Simplification and modernisation of the bankruptcy procedure (simplification - clarification - updating of the bankruptcy procedure, shortening of the deadlines for the rehabilitation of the bankrupt and review of the way the public sector is involved in this procedure).
Increase the number of KEPs from the current 600 to 1,000.
Establishment of a system of a single form and required supporting documents (single file) and a registration number for the submission of applications to the programmes being implemented and the application for supporting documents of an SME.
Utilisation of 3rd CSF grants for SMEs.
Over the next four years, the 3rd CSF funding for SMEs will be completed, aiming to support a total of:
20,000 existing SMEs for technological modernisation, new investments, introduction of quality assurance systems, investments in energy and environmental management and reorganisation.
3,000 new enterprises by young people, women, people with disabilities and other vulnerable groups.
50,000 micro-enterprises with up to 10 employees in the ICT programme;
6,000 SMEs from the other actions of the Information Society.
2 000 small and medium-sized enterprises in rural areas.
During this period, the following will also be promoted:
the inclusion of very small commercial and manufacturing enterprises in the CIP programmes.
Implementation of vocational training and human resources upgrading actions for 100,000 workers, entrepreneurs and seasonally unemployed through specific programmes of lifelong learning and adaptability to new skills, in addition to the training programmes of the Ministry of Labour.
Revision of the Development Law with an objective evaluation system, simplification of aid procedures and improvement of incentives for certain categories of investments.
Continuing to simplify guides and forms to facilitate access to programmes for SMEs.
Creating new financial instruments
Our policy prioritises the establishment of new institutions that will provide more financing opportunities for SMEs.
In this context, the following are planned:
Regional Venture Capital Funds in each region with private and public sector cooperation.
Operation of the High Technology Venture Capital Fund that has been established as well as the institution of "business angels".
Increase the number of Technology Parks and Incubators that provide new innovative businesses, in addition to technical/advisory support and venture capital funding.
Supporting modern and sustainable enterprises in the social economy by providing incentives and promoting specific financial instruments such as the Special Programmes of the Small and Micro Enterprises Guarantee Fund and the Social Mutual Funds.
Ability to create a tax-free reserve from new and old companies.
Creating "green" funds that invest only in environmentally clean companies.
Improving infrastructure and networks.
The legislative framework and the procedures required have been completed and we are proceeding immediately:
to the Management Entities of the Industrial Areas for upgrading investments.
The creation of new BIFEs, BEPEs and BIOPAs for the establishment or relocation of businesses.
The development of old industrial buildings for reuse. Establishment of
3 new Natural Gas Supply Companies.
The unified Technology and Design Centre that will include the five Sectoral Institutes of EOMMEX and the new Industrial Design Centre.
Upgrading business information and support services.
We are establishing at the level of administrative regions the Regional Centres for Entrepreneurship and Development that will incorporate all the relevant regional structures and services that are currently in operation.
They will act as an integrated "one-stop-shop" mechanism for a one-stop-shop for entrepreneurs with responsibilities for information, advisory support, facilitating access to new financial instruments, supporting export initiatives and the internationalisation of regional economies, and disseminating new knowledge and new technologies to local production systems and local human resources, especially young people.
Creating new institutions for participation and dialogue
We are further strengthening participation and dialogue between representatives of the state, business, local government and non-governmental organisations by creating new institutions:
The Small and Medium Enterprises Support Council within the National Council for Competitiveness and Development.
The Forum for the Consumer and the Market.
The Trade Observatory.
The Regional Competitiveness and Development Councils.
Tax security for small businesses .
The main features of the measure are:
It concerns mainly retail businesses selling goods with total annual purchases of up to EUR 100 000.
Membership of the scheme is voluntary and lasts for three years.
This measure concerns around 500,000 small businesses.
The aim of the proposal is to ensure:
Tax security for these businesses.
To free them from opaque transactions of the tax control mechanism.
Simplify the way and procedures for their taxation.
To end the tax surprise of small business with the definitive abolition of retrospective audits.
To put an end to corruption and transaction.
Build a relationship of trust with small businesses.
We tend to be honest and cooperative with them.
End the tax uncertainty of small business.
The company will know its annual tax liabilities from the beginning of the year.
To put an end to bureaucracy.
The only obligation of the small business will be to keep only one purchase ledger.
Dealing with the emergence of large chains requires the strengthening of the small business.
It is our will to contribute, to give an incentive to the mergers of small units in the craft, commercial and service sectors.
Incentives for mergers
Small companies (e.g. several partnerships or sole proprietorships) that merge into one, pay 10% less tax in the first two years of operation and 25% of profits are not taxed for 5 years.
A new impetus for cooperatives
Cooperatives (rural and urban) perform an important task, with both a business and a social dimension.
We propose to reduce their taxes by ten points, gradually over the next period of time, so that they can better serve the idea of co-operativism.
Market Functioning for the Consumer and Healthy Business A
constant objective of PASOK's policy is the proper functioning of markets in terms of healthy and fair competition and effective consumer protection.
Trade and the media face major new challenges.
A key priority of our policy is to support entrepreneurship and create conditions that encourage entrepreneurial initiative, healthy competition and innovative business practices.
Particular emphasis is placed on the modernization and electronic organization of public procurement procedures, which are one of the engines of our economy, as they absorb 10-15% of GDP and contribute decisively to the development of SMEs and domestic production, as well as to regional development.
Our policies and objectives on the market, trade and consumer protection are key aspects of PASOK's overall strategy for sustainable growth and convergence,
employment,
social cohesion
and ensuring a high quality of life for all.
The policy of the PASOK Governments in previous years, through the systematic supervision of the market and the effective monitoring of price formation, contributed decisively to the national success of our country's accession to EMU and the smooth adjustment of the market and consumers to the introduction of the Euro.
Law 3190/2003 on Outdoor Trade, Farmers' Markets and the Fruit and Vegetable Market was passed, by which:
Establishes the modern organization and operation, with uniform conditions, of the Open Air Trade and the Farmers' Markets throughout Greece.
Transparency and supervision of the fruit and vegetable market is ensured.
Control mechanisms are strengthened and illegal trade is effectively tackled.
The Athens-Piraeus Public Markets Organisation is upgraded.
The Thessaloniki Public Markets Organisation is created.
A Register of Wholesalers and Wholesalers of Fruit and Vegetables is established.
Decisions and market laws have been adopted to enhance transparency and market surveillance.
The Competition Commission has been significantly strengthened in terms of infrastructure (its own premises) and scientific staff (transfers and new posts).
The operation of the Price Observatory has started as a pilot project, covering in a first phase 48 agricultural products in Athens, Piraeus and Thessaloniki.
The first phase of the upgrade and improvement works of the Athens Central Market, with a budget of 3 million Euros, has been completed.
The construction of the new Central Market of Thessaloniki was completed (construction cost E12.846.802).
Modernisation of Insurance Market Supervision.
A draft law is submitted to the Parliament establishing the Financial Supervision Commission for Private Insurance.
Simplification of the Business Environment Strengthening Trade
Within the framework of the Operational Programme "Competitiveness", the study for the Electronic General Commercial Register of Enterprises was completed and the project for the development of the General Commercial Register (GEMI) was announced.
The Presidential Decree on combating late payments in commercial transactions, which mainly affect small and medium-sized enterprises, has been published.
The Presidential Decree on legal issues concerning the Information Society and E-Commerce has been published.
The participation of commercial enterprises in the training programmes of the OP "Competitiveness" was reinforced.
The project for the Electronic Filing and Control of Trademarks was launched under the Information Society Operational Programme.
Three Pilot Programmes for the development of Electronic Public Procurement have been completed.
The tender for the development of the Supplier Register and for the development of the National Electronic Public Procurement System has been launched and is currently underway.
An important aspect of our consumer protection policy is the strategy for the availability of quality products in the food market.
The upgrading of safety and the improvement of the conditions of operation in the food market have been one of the most important reform efforts of PASOK in this sector in recent years.
In the context of EFET: The
conditions of operation of businesses have been upgraded and, in general, their adaptation to strict operating standards that ensure the quality of the final product has been strengthened.
A new, reliable system of preventive and compliance checks for manufacturers, processors, food retailers and mass caterers has been implemented on a large scale, capable of guaranteeing consumer safety and boosting consumer confidence in the food market.
It has enabled many professional and business sectors to improve infrastructure, hygiene conditions in their production line, but also the training of professionals and workers (operators) in this field.
More than 15 "Hygiene Guides" have been published to date, including comprehensive studies and detailed specifications for the upgrading of the most important markets, the crowded catering sector, retail, industrial food production units, etc.
It already has branches in Thessaloniki, Heraklion and Patras, while four new branches will start operating immediately in Larissa, the Ionian Islands and the Aegean.
Effective Consumer Protection
The 1520 call centre at the General Secretariat for Consumer Affairs of the Ministry of Consumer Affairs operates to provide information and to respond immediately to consumer complaints.
In the framework of the operation of the European Network for the Extra-Judicial Settlement of Consumer Disputes in Cross-Border Commercial Transactions, the National Information Centre in the Consumer Protection Directorate of the Ministry of Development started operating in May 2002.
As the Greek Presidency, we have given priority:
The need to develop a common database on market conditions, emerging trends, consumer behaviour and problems.
The effective enforcement of consumer protection rules across the European Union through the establishment of a framework for administrative cooperation between Member States' administrative authorities.
Tackling unfair commercial practices.
We promote the institutional dialogue between Consumer Organisations and Market and Social Bodies.
Strengthening the Competition Commission.
Full operation of the Price Observatory covering the whole of Greece and a wider range of products and services.
Establishment and operation of the Financial Supervision Committee for Private Insurance.
Construction of the new Athens Central Market in Rentis and modernisation of the Central Market in Thessaloniki.
Simplifying the Business Environment.
Strengthening the competitiveness of commercial enterprises and supporting their ability to operate in the enlarged European Internal Market and exploit the potential of cross-border and e-commerce.
Development and full operation of the General Commercial Register of Enterprises.
Upgrading and strengthening the role of the Chambers.
Strengthening the participation of Commercial Enterprises in the Competitiveness OP.
Provision for specific actions:
Support for integrated business plans of small commercial enterprises (for the installation of equipment, shop and warehouse configuration, purchase of know-how, market research, etc.).
Support for micro-enterprises (up to 5 employees) in the manufacturing and trade sectors.
Financing of commercial business networking.
Establishment of a National Trade Observatory.
Support for SMEs and Commercial Enterprises in the E-Commerce sector.
Strengthening training programmes for commercial enterprises.
Modernisation of the institutional framework for public procurement (National Electronic Public Procurement System).
Ensuring transparency, competition and efficiency of the Public Procurement system through the modernisation, simplification and acceleration of procedures, as well as ensuring unhindered access for businesses.
Development and full operation of the National Electronic Public Procurement System.
Effective Consumer Protection.
Supporting Consumer Organisations and organising the Consumer Movement at secondary and tertiary level.
Encouraging businesses to express their social responsibility practices.
Upgrading the functioning and strengthening the representativeness of the National Consumer Council.
Establishment and operation of the Consumer Forum, as an institutionalized framework for dialogue and cooperation between Consumer Organizations and Market Bodies.
Protecting the health and safety of consumers.
Ensuring safe and high quality products at affordable prices.
Protecting the financial interests of consumers, with a particular focus on the area of consumer credit.
Safeguarding Consumers' rights in the wider European Internal Market, cross-border transactions and e-commerce.
Strengthening the Consumer Movement, the functioning and representativeness of Consumer Organisations, as well as the media of the citizen-consumer at national and European level.
Making it easier for consumers to access justice in a fast and efficient way at no cost.
Upgrading the functioning of out-of-court support and dispute resolution institutions, particularly at regional - local level.
Exploiting the opportunities offered by Codes of Conduct with industry, commerce and services sectors.
Food Safety - EFET:
Completion of the ongoing reform effort in this sector, with the strengthening of the institutional framework, infrastructure and human resources of EFET.
Raising consumer awareness and objective information, enhancing the responsibility of their choices and their consumer awareness, encouraging their active and critical behaviour in the Market.
Following EMU accession and the acceleration of structural changes, increasing the extroversion of the Greek economy is seen as the next immediate objective that will lead the Greek economy to high levels of growth over the next decade.
It is now understood that Greece's internal market is small.
The expansion of business activities therefore requires the expansion into other markets.
This can be done either by promoting products or services produced in our country or by investing in production and commercial activity in third countries or even by international cooperation in joint business activities or subcontracting.
To increase exports to a double-digit percentage of GDP as quickly as possible and despite the adverse international environment. In particular, the target for the next four years is to increase the share of exports in GDP by one percentage point per year.
The gradual reduction of the trade deficit and the transformation of the current account balance into a positive factor for GDP growth.
The substitution by 2008 of a significant part of Community flows to the country with foreign direct investment (maintaining the growth rate of investment).
Creating an increasingly investor-friendly environment.
Extroversion also includes the expansion of Greek companies in foreign markets through investments and acquisitions.
The direct interconnection of Greek entrepreneurship with globalized networked trade.
The reconquest of the markets of Western Europe and the USA.
The expansion of Greek products in emerging markets such as the Black Sea, China, India.
To maintain share and expand further in the Balkan and Eastern European markets.
Promoting exports - beyond products - services.
Greece has the potential to offer competitive services in the fields of communications, construction, technology, shipping and transport, business consultancy, education, health, etc.
The conquest of the markets of industrialised countries presupposes the existence of a dynamic comparative advantage that requires a set of investments in technology, machinery, human capital, new production methods and the creation of innovative products.
In contrast, the other markets, which do not have the dynamics of the former, such as the Balkans and the Black Sea, are conquered on the basis of comparative cost advantage.
The expansion of Greek exports to the markets of non-industrialised countries may ensure "easier" profits for domestic producers but not in perpetuity.
These profits must therefore be channelled into technology, machinery and human capital so that it can in turn create new advantages, which will lead, through improving the quality and increasing the variety of our products, to the recapture of the EU and US markets.
These markets are distinguished for less risk and ensure stable sales and profits.
It is therefore obvious why knowledge, information and the provision of advisory services for exporters or potential exporters are the key drivers of business development for their expansion both abroad and in the domestic market.
A permanent and regular communication between the services of the country's economy's extroversion services and exporting enterprises has been re-established, with the activation of the National Export Council, which allows for a more effective resolution of exporters' problems and the adoption of new policy measures.
The Hellenic Foreign Trade Organisation (HEA) was modernised and placed at the service of exporters with a modern operational plan.
New policy measures, tailored to the needs of our exporters, have been adopted to assist businesses, especially SMEs, that want to expand into foreign markets (programmes such as "Networking" and "Doing Business Online" for Internet connectivity, etc.).
The Hellenic Institute of Packaging (which increases the export specifications of Greek products), the Hellenic Centre for Product Labelling and the Hellenic Standardisation Organisation were activated in the framework of export policy.
The Hellenic Investment Centre (ELKE) has been reorganised.
The procedures for approving applications for foreign investment in the country (on stop shop) have been accelerated.
Linking the Olympic Games in Greece with the promotion of the economic achievements and the economic potential of our country through the preparation of a Business Exploitation Programme for the 2004 Olympic Games.
Training programmes for business executives and unemployed scientists on export marketing were financed.
Simplification of export procedures;
- Simplification and acceleration of the procedure for refunding the VAT corresponding to export invoices;
- Simplification of the procedures for registration in the Special Register of Exporters;
- Abolition of the letter of guarantee for the export trade in fresh agricultural products.
Modernisation of Customs and simplification of customs procedures related to exports:
- Implementation of the new Computerised Integrated Customs Information System (ICIS) in 63 Customs Offices and Customs Authorities as of 1/7/2003
- Establishment of simplified procedures for export or transport
- All Customs Authorities at the country's border entry and exit points operate on a 24-hour basis all days of the year.
Setting up Export Support Offices in China and Japan.
Open to the challenges of modern times.
Aimed at the international market.
Determined to continuously invest in knowledge and capital.
Rejecting the "easy" but short-term speculative approach to trade.
Receptive to new marketing methods and techniques.
Consistent with the increasing demands for quality and innovation.
Under the supervision of a centralised body of the state and not of scattered regional centres of power (Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, etc.).
With the participation of all stakeholders (SEV, SEVE, Chambers of Commerce, PSI etc.).
By planning for the long term and finding stable resources.
By creating organised units to represent Greek exporters in most foreign countries.
National Export Council The
Council, established in 2003, is made up of governmental bodies, exporters' associations, chambers of commerce, SEV, GSEE, etc. and is chaired by the Minister of Economy and Finance.
The Council formulates the national export strategy.
Export Services Network.
Register of business consultants on export procedures, at a cost of C 20 million, with a view to:
Providing advice/services.
The creation of an export infrastructure for businesses.
The identification of product distribution and export channels.
Establishing contacts in the host countries.
Creation of a communication and information dissemination network
With the OPC, an electronic communication and information dissemination network is being created between all bodies and enterprises active in exports (OPC, Trade Attaches, Chambers of Commerce, Exporters' Associations, individual exporters, companies providing export services, etc.).
The aim is to disseminate information and knowledge at no cost.
Strengthening the role of the Bilateral Business Councils
The signing of Memoranda of Understanding (MoUs) providing for the establishment of Bilateral Business Councils with Kazakhstan, Saudi Arabia, Oman, Brazil, Argentina, Serbia, Albania and Egypt.
One stop shop service at the OPCG
To resolve export-related problems or forward them to the relevant Ministries and subsequently monitor their progress until they are resolved.
Human capital development
Our aim is to further activate academic institutions in the creation of specialised programmes related to export marketing.
Further simplification of export procedures & Modernise Customs and simplify customs procedures.
Expansion of the new computerised Integrated Customs Information System (ICIS) to all customs offices in the country.
Promotion of products and services abroad Offices of the UPE abroad Offices
are already being prepared in China and Japan. Over the next four years, it is planned to establish additional UPE offices in countries of direct interest such as the USA, Australia, Russia and Canada.
Single Coordination
Funding for the promotion in the period 2004-2008 will be provided by:
The existing operational programmes of the 3rd CSF.
The National Budget. A total of €20 million is foreseen for the next three years.
The reformed Operational Programme for Competitiveness ERDF.
Other sources of funding (e.g. chambers of commerce).
Specific guidance will be given to the ERDF, Agriculture, CIP, CIP programmes and appropriate use will be made of 2601/98 to support SMEs.
Because only a competitive business can go abroad with confidence - promotion is not enough.
Attention will be focused on specific major markets:
a) High value-added products in the industrialised world with emphasis on the US and Japanese markets.
b) Products in line with demand trends in the major markets of Russia and China.
Promotion of Greek products & Services on the occasion of the 2004 Olympic Games.
The holding of the Olympic Games in Greece is a unique opportunity to promote the modern face of our country abroad, as well as the economic achievements and potential of our country.
For this reason, the Ministry of Economy and Finance, in cooperation with ATHENS 2004, SEV, ELKE, OPE and other public and business bodies, should proceed with the Business Utilization Programme for the 2004 Olympic Games.
The cost of the first phase of the programme has been budgeted at 5 million Euros, with funding mainly from the Public Investment Programme and additional funding from business sponsors.
Creation of a "Network" between Greek and foreign businesses, before and during the Games, to facilitate contacts and transactions between businesses, aiming at the conclusion of commercial and investment agreements (participation of 12,000 - 15,000 people in 100 events).
Promotion and Promotion Programme for selected Greek companies with innovative products (Greek Innovation and Technology Showcase).
The "Bridge: Athens 2004 - Beijing 2008" The programme includes actions such as:
Organization of business missions, permanent exhibitions of selected Greek products in China, programs to promote Greek businesses and products in China, support for entrepreneurs to participate in local sectoral exhibitions in China, invitations to visit our country by representatives of major Chinese companies, expansion of the Hellenic-Chinese Chamber in China, utilization of EU development programs, organization of "China Day" during the 2004 Olympics and "Greek Day" during the 2008 Olympics, sub-program "Pr
Hospitality Programme for 30 selected international expatriate businessmen
Hospitality Programme for 20 journalists from the international financial/business press.
Greek investments abroad
Greek companies have know-how, experience, better access to capital and can make such investments either independently or in joint ventures, exploiting the comparative advantages of such a move (low local production costs, more direct access to markets, etc.).
In such investments, leadership is an important factor in conquering foreign markets and Greek investors have thoroughly demonstrated in recent years the ability of a dynamic expansion strategy in the Balkans.
Measures to attract foreign investment
The attraction of foreign investment is influenced by the general state of the economy, structural changes (especially market liberalisation), the development law and the existence of a business environment, which are targeted by general economic policy.
The policy for attracting foreign investment will become more client-oriented and will aim to provide direct and full support to the demanding world of international business, thus creating the conditions for the smooth and effective exploitation of the investment opportunities that actually exist in the Greek economy today.
Measures to attract Large Investment
A law has already been passed to provide tax incentives of a 10 point tax reduction for large investments of more than €30 million.
The Committee is composed of the Secretaries General of the Ministries of Economy and Finance (Chairman), the Secretary General for Investment and Development, Development, Culture, Agriculture. If there is a need, the Committee meets at Ministerial level. The rapporteur in this Committee is the NCPC.
The Commission has already achieved the unblocking of some of the licensing cases, which had been dragging on for years.
Proposals for legislative and other interventions to facilitate the investment process (the Commission is currently finalising its proposals to simplify the licensing of wind farms).
Henceforth, the investor will not be involved in the licensing process.
The ELKE will undertake the handling of this process and will provide comprehensive support services to investors (advisory, legal, etc.), facilitating in every way their investment effort from the conception of the idea to its implementation and offering services during the first years of operation.
The ELKE will monitor and have systematic contacts with businesses, informing and assisting in every way to solve any problems (tax, labour, operational).
Systematic and direct information to foreign investors via the Internet
The ELKE has already started and is expected to complete in February 2002 the upgrade of its website which will include a detailed presentation of:
the sectors of the Greek economy and their comparative investment advantages.
The investment profile of the 13 administrative regions of the country.
The required permits and supporting documents per sector of economic activity.
For the country's tax system, the banking system and the educational system.
Statistics and data concerning the country as a whole.
The role of the ELKE and the services it offers to the foreign investor.
Within the next year, it is planned to record the investment profile of each prefecture of the country, which, once completed, will be included on the ELKE website.
The aim is to identify and disseminate the investment opportunities and potential that exist in the region.
At the same time, two-way relations will be developed between the regional actors (Prefectures, Chambers of Commerce, Municipalities, etc.) and the ELKE, in terms of investment support.)
Intensifying extroversion, increasing competitiveness.
Accelerate the privatisation programme with an emphasis on competition and strategic alliances and raise 1-2% of GDP each year by 2008.
Implement the energy market liberalisation programme (10% of energy production by private operators by 2008).
Upgrading market surveillance institutions.
Promoting competition at central and local level (monitoring product prices, strengthening the institutional framework for the functioning of markets and consumer organisations).
Basic aspirations of Greek society, such as a high standard of living and quality of life, equal participation in the global competitive space, security and independence, require a corresponding level of technological development, supported by innovative business activities, scientific and technological research and technology transfer.
Technological modernisation by simply purchasing technology embedded in machinery and equipment has proven to be ineffective when not adequately supported by relevant research.
Technological innovation is the driving force of international business competitiveness in modern economies and the attractiveness of urban areas, regions and countries for international investors.
For Greece, innovation means an aggressive and creative business strategy with an international horizon, consumers who are looking for better products and who have the income to risk buying new products, seamless operation of complementary activities and related industries (suppliers, consultants, etc.), efficient infrastructure, including education, training, research and technological development.
The transformation of new knowledge into a driver of innovation and competitiveness has given research (both business and public) a central place in the microeconomic policies of advanced countries today.
Technological innovation and the knowledge economy are two aspects of the same policy.
Our competitors are in the technologically developed countries of Europe, America and Asia.
We do not compete with low labour cost countries (we do not seek to drive down labour wages to socially unacceptable levels).
The upgrading of business activities goes hand in hand with the upgrading of human resources, organisational performance and the efficiency of public services and organisations.
Reducing unemployment and increasing employment in the medium term will be achieved by exploiting the stock of new knowledge produced in businesses, universities and research centres.
Globalisation is a challenge that is met by innovation (technological, organisational, commercial) and breaks with the present organisation of the productive system are inevitable for the economic and, by extension, political survival of Greece.
The basic legislation on research centres in force since 1985 was amended, giving public centres and their research staff responsibilities for the dissemination and exploitation of the new knowledge produced and opening the way for universities and researchers to exploit knowledge.
At the same time, a structural programme was designed and started to be implemented with the following objectives:
- To increase the demand for new knowledge for innovation;
- To create a new generation of enterprises based on the exploitation of knowledge and continuous innovation;
- To decouple the research system and expand international cooperation between institutions and enterprises;
- To improve research infrastructures, in particular electronic networks.
- Priority support for research areas of interest to economic and social development and complementary to the priority areas of the European Union.
The Competitiveness and Information Society Operational Programmes already allocate around €750 million allocated to technological innovation and research.
Already over 1,700 projects have been financed and a significant proportion (15% at the end of November 2003) of public expenditure has been disbursed.
In line with the European policy to develop Europe's competitiveness vis-à-vis the US and Japan, Greece started to plan its path "towards the knowledge economy" and published the first analysis of the conditions for achieving this ambitious goal.
Greece has made significant progress in the production and integration of new technologies.
With our policies over the last decade, investment in knowledge (research, education, software) has grown at the second fastest rate in the EU.
We have seen a doubling of R&D spending over the last decade, although it remains below the EU average, and a more than doubling of business R&D spending as a share of GDP, while the EU average has remained stagnant.
Emphasis on technological innovation and research in the funding of the 2nd and 3rd CSF (Competitiveness FP, with a total cost of 500 million).
Favourable tax treatment of research expenditure, with 50% of the related costs deducted from companies' taxable profits.
Creating a scheme to provide financial support for knowledge-intensive spin-offs.
Amendment of the development law to support SMEs for organisational modernisation in innovation and quality investments.
Intensification of research and related activities (technology transfer, dissemination, information) in enterprises or in the relationship between enterprises and public research organisations.
Expanding partnerships with business and research organisations abroad and joining international permanent or special cooperation networks.
Support to the productive sector by public research and technology institutions through the provision of services and expertise.
Funding of collaborations between production and research organisations for the implementation of long-term projects aiming at the production of innovative products/services.
The content of the education system needs to be adapted to foster creativity, the ability to analyse and solve complex problems with a long-term and global perspective, the desire to learn and the inclination to take entrepreneurial risks (the 'multiple textbook' and 'open' curriculum policy).
The creation and development of private technology parks and incubators outside of Athens and Thessaloniki will offer, through geographical concentration, infrastructure, high quality advisory and financial services, as well as visibility and examples to follow.
Research policy should further clarify the relationship between public research centres and universities on the one hand and businesses on the other (how researchers are recruited, promoted and paid and the criteria for funding the centres).
Support and funding of actions under the 3rd CSF with emphasis on:
the development of industrial research and the staffing of enterprises with research personnel.
The creation of new knowledge-intensive business activities.
The design and implementation of joint research projects between businesses and public research organisations.
Attracting international investors in cutting-edge sectors, opening up to the international arena through partnerships and programmes.
Encourage research by businesses by extending tax incentives for business research expenditure.
The main purpose of these actions is to strengthen the demand for new technological knowledge and to promote product and process innovation.
The aim is for 40% of the research to come from businesses (up from 26% today).
The target of 1.5% of GDP foresees an increase in business R&D expenditure from 0.2% (1999) to 0.6% in 2010.
Increase funding for public research.
The central target of 1.5% is linked to an increase in public (government) expenditure on research from 0.5% (1999) to 0.9% of GDP in 2010.
In monetary terms and in constant prices this means a tripling of public expenditure on research.
In this context, the allocation of 1% of the budget of the Ministry of Defence's equipment programme for the development of defence technology.
The number of staff employed in research will increase from 55000 people (2001) to about 125000 in 2010.
HEIs should on average triple the number of outgoing doctoral students, assuming a 50%-100% increase in the number of returning doctoral students from abroad.
Much of this human capital will feed into the knowledge-intensive business sector.
New sectors should be developed with appropriate administrative support in the Ministries of Defence and Public Order, Transport and Merchant Shipping, Environment and Health, etc.
Participation in the activities of organisations such as the European Space Agency, the European Nuclear Research Centre, the European Molecular Biology Agency, the European Science Foundation, etc.
Cooperating with the international business community and carrying out research on behalf of foreign companies.
The Ministry of Development, with the help of an advisory body, can coordinate and assess the progress of the effort and the deviation from the objectives, proposing corrective measures.
Continuous upgrading of complementary technological services: industrial and aesthetic design, intellectual property protection, standards, certification - calibration, technology popularisation, prospective technological exploration, etc.
Our goal and political commitment is to converge with the level of development of the European citizen through an integrated energy strategy with a time horizon of 2015.
We ensure sufficient and secure energy for all Greeks without discrimination and with a view to future generations.
We promote the balanced development of all regions of the country.
We strengthen technological innovation and the development of strong Greek business poles.
Upgrading the country and its role in Southeast Europe to a central hub for energy exports from the Caucasus, Caspian and Middle East regions to the West and the European Union.
We safeguard the country's energy sufficiency and the security of its network.
We regulate the free market through public intervention to better serve and protect the citizen and reduce energy costs through healthy competition.
We promote energy saving in domestic and industrial use.
Equal opportunities for all citizens to access and use all forms of energy.
Through the introduction and promotion of Natural Gas and Renewable Energy Sources, we respect and protect the environment, while ensuring the growth and competitiveness of our economy.
Our aim is to ensure that electricity is quantitatively, qualitatively and reasonably priced for consumers, particularly in a liberalised regional market.
So far, 14 large thermoelectric projects, 3 large hydroelectric projects and 456 Renewable Energy Sources (RES) have been granted electricity generation licences.
Electricity interconnection between Greece and Italy.
It is a direct current interconnection designed to transfer 500 MW of electricity between the two countries.
The total investment amounted to 340 million.
Electricity Interconnections with the Balkans
Interconnection Greece - Bulgaria (Maritsa - Kehros), Greece - Skopje (Bitola - Florina), Yugoslavia - Skopje (Nis - Skopje), Albania - Yugoslavia (Podgoritsa - Elbasan)
Rehabilitation of the Adriatic line in Bosnia and the Ernestinovo substation in Croatia.
All of the above projects are in the construction phase.
Installation and operation of Renewable Energy Sources (RES).
While in the period 1993-2002 the total new RES was 320 MW, in 2003 alone another 162 MW were installed.
In 2003, the number of wind turbines with installation or operation permits reached 600 MW, while for the other RES (small hydro, photovoltaic, biomass) the corresponding permits amount to 112.5 MW.
Completion - operation of energy investments by PPC.
Full operation of the 485 MW Komotini Power Plant of PPC, fuelled by Natural Gas and the 330 MW lignite plant of Florina.
Lignite production reached a new record (70.3 million tonnes in 2002, compared to 60.3 million tonnes in 2000).
The mines of Achlada/DEI and Mavropigi have been opened.
Addition of 28 MW capacity at the Chania NPP, 28MW at the Linoperamata NPP and 2X52MW Atherinolakos steam power plants.
The hydroelectric projects in Mesochora, Hilarion Papadia (Meliti - Achlada NPP), Polyfytos (Kardia and Ag. Dimitrios NPPs) and Ag.
The main directions of our gas policy, taking into account the significant benefits that flow from its use, are as follows:
We are strengthening the entry of natural gas in Crete, Rhodes and other large islands.
We are strengthening private investment and promoting gas market liberalisation.
We are increasing the use of natural gas with the ultimate aim of improving the conditions and competition in the energy market and creating new jobs.
We promote the introduction of new natural gas technologies with increased energy efficiency in both industrial production and urban consumption.
Signing of bilateral and trade agreements (pipelines connecting Greece with Turkey and Italy).
Placement of a Strategic Partner in DEPA (Public Gas Company).
In the framework of the applicable Community Directive 98/30, DEPA has completed:
- the accounting separation of its gas transmission and marketing activities and prepared the respective financial statements for the financial years 2001 and 2002;
- the design of the gas transmission pricing system that will apply when third party access to DEPA's gas transmission networks is established.
Supplying consumers and businesses The
number of industries supplied with natural gas in each prefecture is as follows (not including the PPC):
we have completed the construction of the Ano Liosia station, which serves the needs of 300 buses and is the largest in Europe.
We are planning to build a second station in Anthousa, Attica.
An amendment has been tabled in Parliament that provides for the mandatory use of Natural Gas in public buildings in Athens and Thessaloniki and modifies the regulation of apartment buildings to facilitate the introduction of Natural Gas.
Our aim is to strengthen competition and offer citizens better services and lower prices.
We are shielding the country against energy risk by rationalising security reserves.
We intensified the control and the establishment of a mechanism to control the movement of fuels in order to tackle smuggling and fraud, as well as to strengthen the protection of the environment with Fuel Movement and Storage Control Units, initially in Athens and Piraeus and soon throughout Greece.
We already have a crisis management committee in place and we have also introduced opening hours for service stations.
We planned the construction of the Burgas-Alexandroupolis pipeline.
The Thessaloniki-Skopje oil pipeline and the polypropylene plant were built by HELPE (Hellenic Petroleum), in which a strategic partner was appointed.
We promote Renewable Energy Sources.
We are already carrying out projects to bring natural gas to all households and industries.
We are upgrading the lignite plants.
We promote the further implementation of the Kyoto decisions to limit emissions of hazardous gases and protect the environment in general.
We ensure security of supply for each region, regional development, environmental protection and improved competitiveness.
We emphasise the rational use of energy and improve energy efficiency for both households and services.
We promote the entry of use and familiarisation of the consumer public with renewable energy and natural gas.
We place particular emphasis on influencing citizens' behaviour, increasingly improving urban transport and promoting continuous information campaigns on the need to save energy and use it rationally.
We have intensified controls and inspections in industries and businesses that are large consumers.
We have promoted and continue to promote the energy certificate measure in all buildings.
With this measure we want to reduce the energy performance of buildings.
Accelerate the new Operational Programme for Competitiveness (2000-2006), which contains actions and measures for energy saving in the industrial and service sectors, through subsidies of up to 45%.
We develop and elaborate the elements of modern energy planning.
We promote the use of CO2 emission reduction technologies.
We promote the production and use of hydrogen and renewable energy sources.
We introduce energy saving measures (in the domestic and industrial sectors).
We are upgrading research centres and university laboratories and establishing new ones, investing a total of 390 million by 2004 to support new research programmes.
We encourage the creation of new companies using the results of research and ensure support for international scientific and technological cooperation.
The liberalisation of the electricity market and the introduction of natural gas are causing profound changes in the country's energy system.
A more complex but integrated, flexible and competitive energy system is emerging, allowing a wide choice of both energy forms and suppliers, always with the aim of reducing prices.
In this system, market trends and the fuel mix used are shaped by supply and demand, while state intervention is mainly through the action of the State as a regulator to ensure healthy competition.
This reduces the entrepreneurial role of the State.
However, the State remains the ultimate guarantor of the security of energy supply and the provision of utility services, including the protection of the environment and the consumer.
In this context and taking into account the medium-term trends in our energy balance, our energy policy must be multidimensional and serve the following strategic objectives:
Securing energy supply on economically acceptable terms.
Reducing the environmental impact of energy production, distribution and use, in order to achieve sustainable development and to comply with the country's international obligations, especially those related to climate change.
The substantial contribution of the energy sector as a major contributor to the competitiveness of the national economy, regional development and employment.
The development of transnational relations at both the economic and political level in order to improve the country's energy supply security and to strengthen the role of our energy sector in the SE European market, as well as in the context of cooperation with the countries of the Black Sea and the Mediterranean.
From 1 June 2004 any non-household customer and from 1 June 2007 all customers will be able to buy electricity from any supplier of their choice.
Our objectives are:
A smooth transition to the liberalised electricity market.
Promoting the use of natural gas and renewable energy sources in electricity generation.
The strengthening, expansion and upgrading of existing electricity transmission and distribution.
The strengthening and expansion of the electrical infrastructure of the islands, especially the interconnections with the mainland system and with each other.
The reduction of CO2 emissions and pollutants (NOX SO2, ash, etc.) in existing power plants and the promotion of new environmentally friendly lignite combustion technologies.
In the natural gas sector, we are planning actions aimed at expanding the penetration of the fuel in the Greek market, on the one hand, and at securing natural gas in sufficient quantity to meet demand and at a satisfactory price, on the other.
Specifically planned are:
Securing alternative sources of natural gas and creating infrastructure for participation in international markets (connection with Italy, Caspian region).
The expansion of the use of natural gas in the Greek energy market. With the completion of the tender for the city networks, the penetration of natural gas in the commercial and residential sectors is being promoted.
Also, the expansion of the network is planned in Evros, Elefsina, Corinth and six (6) more cities (Serres, Drama, Kavala, Xanthi, Komotini, Chalkida).
Ensuring flexibility, stability and reliability of the system by upgrading the Revithoussa LNG terminal, constructing the strategic gas storage facility in Kavala and adding compressors.
Preparing for a smooth transition to the free market in gas after 2006.
Energy is a priority area in the development of economic relations with third countries, both bilaterally and multilaterally, where energy sector PPPs are already active.
In the Balkans, Greece is exploiting its advantages and is undertaking important initiatives, aiming to create a "partnership" in the energy sector, with the main axes being the increase of security of supply, the attraction of the necessary investments, the
reduction of energy costs and the protection of our common environment.
The development of our distinctive relations with the countries of the wider region facilitates these objectives and makes our country an energy hub for the supply of the European Union.
The Burgas-Alexandroupolis pipeline, our connection to the European Gas Network, which can have a two-way flow, and the strengthening or the creation of electrical interconnections with Italy, our northern neighbours and Turkey, are all part of these prospects.
In this respect it is particularly important to :
The acquisition of the majority of the share capital of the Okta refineries in Skopje by HELPE.
The supply of electricity to Albania and Kosovo.
Taking the initiative to reconstruct the electricity supply network in the Korytsa region.
The upgrading of the interconnection lines between the Greek-Bulgarian electricity transmission systems and the connection of the Greek-Turkish systems.
The signing of the Joint Political Declaration of the South East Energy Ministers. Europe on the establishment of the South East Regional Electricity Market. Europe, etc.
The PASOK government has attached and continues to attach particular importance to tourism as a development and cultural challenge and as a sector in which Greece has a comparative advantage and prospects.
Despite its existing problems, tourism is the most dynamic and competitive sector of the Greek economy at international level, with a share of 4.5% of GDP (but the real impact of the tourism economy is estimated at 14.6%) and an employment share of 5% or about 200,000 jobs (the corresponding real impact of total tourism employment is estimated at 16.8% or about 680,000 jobs).
The aim of our policy is to strengthen the contribution of tourism to the domestic product, income, employment, its qualitative upgrading and its adaptation to the new international standards.
To this end, the Ministry of Development prepared, published and implemented since October 2003 the Strategic Plan for the Development of Greek Tourism for the period 2004-2008 and at the same time implemented a series of important institutional and developmental measures.
National Tourism Council
Its establishment, operation and reform as a key representative body for policy-making.
New Hotel and Accommodation Classification System.
Modern Regulation "Casino".
Regulation on the Operation of Tourist Ports .
Register of Tourism Enterprises.
The saturation provisions were abolished - markets were opened up as environmental protection conditions were ensured, resulting in the modernisation of large hotels (Great Britain, Hilton, etc.).
Privatisation of Public Tourism Infrastructure.
Under the management arm of the company HELLENIC TOURIST PROPERTIES, a wide opening of the public infrastructure of the Greek National Tourism Organisation to the private sector took place.
Tourism Education Law: The framework of Tourism Education (in force since 1930) was restructured and new Tourism Schools were created, modernizing the educational programs (establishment of the School of Tourist Guides, the Higher School of Tourism Education and the IEEK TEI of Tourism Professions).
Infrastructures for the 2004 Olympics were created, mainly in Attica but also in the Region (Ports, Airports etc.).
20 million in institutionalised resources were secured from the E.T.A.
The main promotion programme of the EOT amounted to 24 million for 2003 and 29 million for 2002.
The special promotional actions for special forms of tourism in cooperation with the private sector have been launched by the Greek National Tourism Organisation (EOT), amounting to 14 million euros.
The special, due to the Olympic Games, advertising campaign for 2004 has an increased budget, combines classical with more modern methods ("jubilee advertisements", Olympic inserts etc.) and started already on December 20, 2003, for the first time so early in the history of Greek tourism.
All the comments and proposals concerning the tourism sector were implemented after having been recorded, with the cooperation of the Public Services and tourism stakeholders, in the drafting of the new development law.
Important Tourism Enterprises such as Marinas, Organized Beaches, Hotels etc. were upgraded, modernized and privatized. (the largest post-war private investment programme, totalling around 450 million Euros), giving new value to the work of the Greek National Tourism Organisation and creating at least 6000 new jobs.
Fixed resources of 25 million euros per year have been secured for the promotion and advertising of the Hellenic Republic. Tourism outside the MTE and IT programme from the revenues of HELLENIC TOURIST PROPERTIES
17,000 hotel beds were secured for the business programme of the Olympic Hospitality.
The country's Tourism Development Studies for all 13 Regions have been completed.
Private investments for tourism have been implemented for a total amount of about 1.250.000.000.
92.1% of the ERDF tourism programme was activated, amounting to 591 million (from the privatisations the guaranteed amount of private investments exceeds 400 million).
Before proceeding with any planning for the future, we must boldly agree on the real conditions of the global market, the problems and opportunities of Greek tourism:
High geographical concentration of tourism infrastructure.
One-dimensional tourist product: Sun - Sea.
Short duration of the tourist season.
Dominance of mass tourism.
Hotel units - accommodation of small size and intermediate - low quality.
Low degree of concentration and very little vertical integration.
Small size and low concentration of non-hotel tourism businesses.
Pros:
Strong Brand Name and globally unique environmental beauties.
Stronger competitiveness compared to other sectors of the Greek economy.
Oligobaric diffusion of tourist demand with few tour - operators.
Increase in the share of visitors from Europe. Significant decrease in the share of American tourists
Increase of tourists from East Europe.Europe.
Upward trend in foreign tourist arrivals.
The share of air arrivals is increasing.
Increasing participation of domestic tourism.
Perspective of the Olympic Games.
Procedures for the development of the tourist properties of ETA S.A. (the largest programme for the development of public tourist property since the 1960s).
Third CSF programmes in conjunction with the new development law.
Our goal is for tourism to contribute 15% to the Gross National Product (indirect and direct), 17% to employment and 22.5% to investment.
Increase of 2% in GDP participation.
19.7 million tourists at the end of the decade.
Diversification of the Tourist Product
Greece is becoming a recognizable tourist destination with:
Upgrading the quality of accommodation and services.
Creation of Special Tourist Infrastructures.
Modernising education and training of human resources.
Geographical Distribution - Lengthening the Time Period
Distribution of demand and supply across the region beyond the established areas.
Expanding demand and supply throughout the year.
Proposals - Actions for the next 4 years
Strengthening Domestic Tourism
Intervention on holidays, with a focus on school holidays, outside the tourist season.
Familiarization with the new Tourism Products (Snow Classes and Green Classes).
Strengthening entrepreneurship for rural regeneration.
Participation of the whole economy in the promotion of the tourism product
Many different sectors of the Greek economy are involved, influenced and indirectly affected by tourism (food production, construction sector, manufacture of utilitarian objects, etc.) and therefore it is necessary to design a strategy for their coordinated participation in the marketing and advertising of the Greek economy. Tourism. The aim is to develop a strategic strategy for the promotion and advertising of the tourism product.
Development of Tourism Consciousness (Education - Training)
Modernisation of Tourism Education (schools - educational programmes).
Programmes for the formation of modern tourism awareness for pupils - students and for wider youth groups.
Strengthening investments in golf courses, thalassotherapy centres, conference centres, theme parks - ecotourism - agrotourism infrastructures, etc. that make the Greek economy more attractive. Tourism product branded and therefore competitive.
Currently 16 approvals & autopsies and 4 studies are needed before siting which means that together with other procedures it takes 3 - 5 years for the final licensing of an investment.
This must change immediately to achieve a substantial acceleration of the Tour. Development.
Establishment of a Unified Promotion and Advertising Agency of the Hellenic Republic. Tourism. Industry.
GNTO: A public limited company for promotion and advertising that will draw up the marketing plan of Greek tourism.
Five-year programme of Advertising - Promotion of El. Tourism Promotion and Promotion of Tourism of EUR 150 million, with an allocation of EUR 70 million in 2003 (the year of the start of the campaign, thus the peak year) and EUR 20 million per year for the rest of the period.
Statutory funding (EDF - Casino revenues): the project will be co-financed by 80% by the Greek State and 20% by private investors.
Development of Tourism Policy.
Application control.
Coordination of the Regions
Creation of a Tourism Observatory.
Tourism Development Studies.
Specifications of Tourist Infrastructure.
Market - education link.
Maintenance of National Satellite Accounts.
New Forms of Tourism (Development and Implementation Studies).
The Foreign Offices are essentially the Embassies of Greece. They are essentially the Greek Tourist Offices abroad and their modernization and upgrading is required in order to meet the requirements of the presentation of the country's new Tourist Face.
The cost of the required actions amounts to 15 million euro.
Measures to Strengthen and Extend the Tourist Season
White - Green Classes: Participation of 50 - 100 thousand students this year (One week funded). Target: 300 thousand students in 2008.
Creation of a holiday week in addition to the usual ones (summer, Christmas, Easter).
This week will be different for each of the country's 13 regions.
Declaration of investments in 10 to 15 public tourist properties of Hellenic Tourist Real Estate SA (ETA), as being of major importance, with the Interministerial Body of Tourism assuming the responsibility of zoning and the responsibility of the Ministry of Environment and Public Works to issue the relevant permit (see attached documents).
The aim is to enable the construction of tourist houses for sale to hoteliers who have tourist residences. 4 and 5 star units on land outside the plan.
In this way, large and long-term investments are attractive to private investors.
Legalization of unauthorized buildings, tourist facilities that already have a permit from the E.O.T.
Change of use of old hotels and rooms (measure for the withdrawal of obsolete tourism businesses that have deteriorated and are not suitable for modernisation and therefore cannot meet the requirements of the modern market).
Today Greece, as a tourist destination, is very much like France in the 70s.
That is, in France at that time, 80 % of tourism was distributed over 20 % of the territory and 20 % of the year.
Today in France, following the introduction and implementation of a series of measures, 80 % of tourism is distributed over 80 % of the territory and 80 % of the year.
A similar distribution must and can be achieved in Greece.
The modernization of accommodation and the drastic improvement of the quality of the services offered through funding from the 3rd CSF and the new development law.
The diversification and enrichment of the tourism product with the development of thematic and alternative forms of tourism (cultural, conference, therapeutic and rejuvenating, skiing and mountain tourism).
The development of human resources in tourism, which complements the qualitative upgrading of the services provided.
A key requirement is Tourism Education which has a beneficial effect on employment.
Strengthening tourism distribution and transport networks, which involve strengthening our traditional markets, diversifying and penetrating new markets, thematic promotions and actions, reducing seasonality, exploiting new technologies.
Establishment of a single promotion body for the tourism product as a whole and the tourism market in our country.
Creation of a tourism portal, which will form the basis of the electronic access of the tourism market to the international market.
The national infrastructure policy concerns mainly the transport sector (roads, railways, ports, airports), but also any other type of infrastructure that makes the country modern in order to deal with all kinds of problems related to its urban and geomorphological situation (flood protection, hydraulic and irrigation works, urban landscaping, etc.).
The national transport policy covers urban and interurban transport, railways and airports throughout the country.
Improving services to the citizen is the overarching objective, which is combined with environmental protection and energy saving.
Modern passenger and freight transport, safety in transport, improvement of public transport, combined transport and freight centres were and are priorities of the development strategy of modern transport infrastructure in our country.
In the past four years, very important infrastructure projects have been completed or are in the process of completion, which have radically changed the development character of the country.
Great steps have been taken to upgrade it, both in urban areas and in the periphery:
Egnatia: A minimum of 570 km of the axis will be in traffic by the end of 2004.
In the remaining sections of the EAGNATIA ROAD, traffic will be routed through bypass sections of the existing National Roads, so that the axis will operate as a single axis (Functional EAGNATIA ROAD).
PATHE: 500 km of modern motorway (including the 25 km section of the ATTIKIS ROAD) operate in full road safety conditions.
Attiki Odos: the 65 km long urban motorway was completed, creating new traffic conditions both on the urban routes of Attica and on the national road network by bypassing the central municipalities of Attica, with 200,000 vehicles per day, with 2 million litres of daily fuel savings and 270 thousand hours per day.
Olympic road projects in Attica: the traffic landscape in Attica is being completely transformed with other road projects outside the Attica Road, such as the Kifissos project, the coastal road of Ave. Poseidonos, the Varis - Koropi, the connections to the Olympic sports centres and the Olympic Village.
Aktio - Preveza link: a unique submarine project for our country, which serves the traffic in the prefectures of Western Greece, has been completed and is operating successfully.
Rio - Antirrio interconnection: the largest and most important project of the last 100 years is in the final phase of construction, aiming to connect Central Greece and Epirus with the Peloponnese in 2004.
Bypasses of major cities: bypasses of major cities throughout the country, such as Thessaloniki, Patras, Volos, Arta, Filippiada, Agrinio, Heraklion, have been completed or are in progress.
Northern Road Axis of Crete: 40 km of modern and safe motorway with tunnels and valley bridges are already in operation.
Extensions and upgrades to the ports of Igoumenitsa, Patras, Thessaloniki, Alexandroupolis, Kavala, Heraklion, Volos, Lavrio, Souda, Rhodes, Rhodes, Corfu, Mykonos, Lesvos, Kassos.
In addition to the construction and operation of the New International Airport "Eleftherios Venizelos" (which was considered as the best airport in the world for a capacity of up to 15 million passengers), the construction and operation of the New International Airport "Eleftherios Venizelos" (which was considered as the best airport in the world for a capacity of up to 15 million passengers). In addition, new terminals and taxiways have been constructed and are under construction in 24 regional airports of the country, while old ones have been upgraded, such as Thessaloniki, Heraklion, Corfu, Corfu, Samos, Zakynthos, Sitia, Chania and Alexandroupolis airports.
Another important improvement in the quality of life in Attica was the operation of the Athens Metro in the first phase (2000-2003) with 18 km of lines, 19 stations and 500,000 daily passengers and in the second phase (2004) its extensions to Agios Dimitrios, Peristeri, Stavros (Plakentias Dukes) and the New International Airport "Eleftherios Venizelos".
The renovation of the HSTAP line (23 stations renovated and one new station added, new signalling installed, 20 new six-car trains ordered, etc.).
The renewal of the fleet of vehicles of ETHEL (400 new buses were delivered of which 295 are gas buses) and ELPAP (224 new trolleybuses were delivered).
The renewal of the fleet of Thessaloniki's urban transport services, their institutional restructuring, their extension to fifteen (15) municipalities of the Prefecture of Thessaloniki and the construction of 7 transfer stations.
The establishment of bus routes (40 km).
The start of construction of the tram and suburban railway, which are progressing at unprecedented speed and will be completed before the Olympic Games in a functional form for the needs of the Games.
The transformation and, of course, the rescue of Olympic Airways at a very negative time for the aviation industry.
The transformation of the KTELs into public limited companies and the introduction of incentives for the replacement of their fleet and the modernisation of their stations with an aid amount of €88 million.
The provision for taxi companies or cooperatives, mandatory air conditioning, minimum engine capacity, age limit and the €60 million fleet replacement aid.
The establishment of private MOTs that will decongest the state-owned ones and allow better service to the citizen.
The promotion of the Pan-European Axis "X" connecting Thessaloniki, Skopje, Belgrade, Zagreb, Ljubljana, Salzburg.
The modernisation of the railway network which reduced the time of the Athens - Thessaloniki distance by one hour and the distance Thessaloniki - Alexandroupolis by 40 minutes.
The major road safety and accident reduction programme (Traffic Education Parks), the cycle paths programme, the two-wheel drive measures, the road safety programme and the road safety programme.
Improvement of the infrastructure of the "metric" Peloponnese Railway Network and the traditional toothed Diakofto - Kalavryta.
Our plan for the next four years includes plans and strategies for the development of modern, high quality combined transport infrastructure.
Road Axes
The completion of major roads of national importance is fully planned with a focus on connectivity and regional prosperity.
In particular:
Completion of the entire Egnatia Road from Kipi to Igoumenitsa.
Completion of the entire PATHE from Athens to Evzoni and from Athens to Patras, Pyrgos and Tsakonas.
Completion of the Western Axis, the Ionian Road, from Patras to Kakavia.
Completion of the Rio-Antirrio link in 2004
Completion of the National Road Corinth - Tripoli - Sparta - Kalamata.
Completion of the Northern Road Axis of Crete.
Cooperation to link the above road axes with the trans-European networks passing through the Balkan countries.
It is also fully planned to complete smaller road projects both to bypass the cities and to connect the country's national and provincial networks as much as possible.
Completion of the PATHE railway line (Patras, Athens, Thessaloniki, Idomeni) with a double electric line and the possibility of developing a speed of 140 to 200 km per hour. Also the section Thessaloniki - Premahonas, with a single line and a speed of 160 km per hour.
In the same period the Regional Rail Networks will have been put into use in their new form, where extensive infrastructure and superstructure projects are being carried out.
In particular, the infrastructure and the geometric characteristics of the Ormeni - Alexandroupolis - Komotini - Xanthi - Drama - Kilkis - Thessaloniki and Thessaloniki - Veroia - Edessa - Kozani - Florina Railway Line are significantly improved.
On these lines, speeds of up to 160 km/h will be achieved and times will be reduced by up to 35%.
The implementation of Contracts of Supply for modern rolling stock, which meets the requirements of the new infrastructure for high speeds and quality of service, is gradually being completed.
At the same time, with the infrastructure and rolling stock supply projects, i.e. material modernisation, the institutional modernisation of the OSE is completed with its harmonisation with Community law through the implementation of the second railway package (liberalisation of freight and passenger transport in the Community area).
Completion of the suburban railway for the sections not included in the Olympic Projects (extension of the network to Chalkida) and planning of its extension to the ports of Lavrio and Rafina.
In order to complete - implement the Strategic Planning of the country's Transport Infrastructures, the following are proposed for the next 4 years:
The start and progress of the works of the Egnatia Railway (Kozani - Kalambaka - Igoumenitsa section) and the Ionian Railway Axis (Ioannina - Patras).
The improvement of the Alexandroupolis - Constantinople Railway Line and especially the extension of the Egnatia road from Alexandroupolis via Kipi to Istanbul. (Transformation of the Egnatia into a transcontinental road axis).
During the next 4 years, the policy of improving the Regional Airports will continue and, of course, the reconfiguration of the "Macedonia" Airport of Thessaloniki and the "Nikos Kazantzakis" Airport of Heraklion will be completed.
At the same time, a study for the construction of a new airport in Samothrace is underway.
Continuing the modernisation programme of all the country's ports, in order to meet the needs of local communities and the new requirements of passenger and commercial shipping.
Completion of the extensions of the Athens Metro to Egaleo and Haidari, to Peristeri and to Elliniko and Glyfada, aiming to serve 1,000,000 passengers per day.
Construction of the 10 km long Thessaloniki Metro and the Thessaloniki Submarine Artery, for which the tender process is already in full swing.
Incentives for the extensive renewal of the fleets of OASΘ, KTEL, TAXI. Over the next 4 years, 60% of these will be renewed, modern and with quality service standards.
The modernisation of the HSTAP stations and the renewal of the rolling stock of HSTAP, ETHEL, ELPAP (20 new six-car trains, 600 new buses, 142 new trolleybuses) are already underway.
During the next 4 years, with the above mentioned means of public transport (METRO, TRAM, Suburban Railway) in combination with the new infrastructure (Attiki Odos, other road network, increase of bus lines), the urban area of Attica (Athens - Piraeus - Suburbs) will be served by a modern organized urban transport system, which will be connected simultaneously with the Intercity Transport Stations, the Airport and the Ports of Attica.
Full operation of the traffic control and management centre in Attica, which includes a Traffic Management Centre, a Traffic Monitoring and Control Chamber, 204 Surveillance Cameras, 24 Electronic Variable Message Signs, 700 vehicle counting stations, an Internet site and complete modernisation of the traffic lights in Attica (replacement of central computers and 600 local regulators).
Full operation of a Telematics - Information System for the management - administration of urban and intercity transport and the information of passengers (ELPAP - ETHEL - KTEL - OSE - METRO).
Among the road safety objectives, the inclusion of a road safety course in schools is being promoted - and the construction of Road Safety Parks in the country's municipalities (110 in number) continues.
Also, the training - examination of candidate drivers is upgraded and eight (8) Candidate Driver Examination Parks will be constructed in the first phase.
Establishes a system of a unified nationwide "Electronic Examination of Candidate Drivers" to ensure objective, impartial and transparent procedures.
Promote a policy of integrating cycling into the city and measures for two-wheelers.
The operation of the public MOTs is upgraded with their electronic connection to the Control Centre of the Ministry of Transport and the institution of private MOTs, which are planned to be established in large urban centres, is expanded.
The institutional reorganization of National and International Freight Transport is planned, with their formation into joint stock companies and the provision of incentives for the creation of modern infrastructure, facilities, fleet renewal and the establishment of Freight Centres (combined transport hubs).
Our country, in the telecommunications sector, follows the European policy, while having its own vision, adapted to its specificities.
Since January 2001, the telecommunications market in Greece has been fully liberalised in accordance with the EU Directives.
The former state monopoly gave way to healthy competition.
Competition has resulted in cheaper prices for both fixed and mobile telephony.
It also resulted in a higher quantity and better quality of services, new jobs, investments and significant revenues for the state (over 260 billion drachmas) from the tenders for the granting of licences for wireless access to the fixed network, third generation mobile telephony, etc.
The service to the citizen is now immediate and fast.
While a few years ago there was a crush of people interested in a telephone connection and a long waiting time for the request to be satisfied, today companies are crowding behind the consumer to offer their services and even immediately.
In 2003, Greece acquired its first telecommunications satellite, Hellas Sat, after an international tender process and with great benefit for our country.
The country's telecommunications network is now technologically advanced and fully adequate for our needs.
It is on this network and our satellite that we will build for the future.
The next step is "electronic communications", the new European vision.
Further development of competition for the benefit of the citizen.
New investments of €5 billion are expected over the next five years.
Substantial incorporation into national law of the five (5) new Directives and monitoring (regulation) of the electronic communications market based on this new framework.
Arrangements for co-location of mobile communication antennas and for the protection of the public.
In view of the deployment of the third generation mobile network and the full roll-out of the second generation network, a number of regulatory interventions for health, environmental and aesthetic reasons are underway.
Development that respects people and the environment is our goal for the coming years in the telecommunications sector.
Exploitation and control of the radio frequency spectrum for broadcasting.
Actions such as the Spectrum Management Centre and the Spectrum Parks will be completed gradually over the next few years, in order to bring the broadcasting spectrum into order and rationalise its management.
The postal market at European level is a dynamic market that is gradually being liberalised.
In Greece, EL.TA. leads the postal market with a share of more than 95 % in the letter mail market, about 50 % in the payments market and 11 % in courier services.
The EL.TA. in the consciousness of the ordinary citizen, is the reference of the central administration in the most distant parts of our country.
That is why the EL.T.A. is surrounded by trust everywhere.
The EL.TA., after a great effort of the political leadership and their management and with the employees as the main and main contributors to the success, is for the fifth year profitable.
They are a model for the way they work and manage.
In the coming years, the provision of postal services will be improved following the automation of sorting, whose projects are underway.
Also, the renovation of the post offices that is going on all over the country, creates an image of respect for the customer-citizen on the one hand and the seriousness of the company on the other.
The development strategy of EL.T.A. for the coming years is focused on four areas:
introduction of new services such as hybrid mail, "registered" email, electronic bill payment (e-BPP), etc.
Expansion into new neighbouring markets, with priority given to the so-called Single Balkan Postal Area.
Improving productivity and quality through modern technologies (sorting automation, electronic route planning, etc.).
Adding value to existing services by increasing reliability, speed, information, etc. and facilitating the customer through the overall management of his/her correspondence.
In the shipping sector, Greece is a world power, ranking first in the EU, with foreign exchange inflows exceeding €8.5 billion in 2002.
In this sector, our objective is therefore to maintain and strengthen our position as a world leader in a context of liberalisation and increasing international competition.
Greek Seamanship should be combined with measures for the continuous modernisation of Greek shipping.
Attracting ships to the Greek flag should have an emotional and economic dimension as well as an emotional and economic dimension.
Merchant shipping continues to be at the centre of our interest, since as an important exogenous economic sector, it contributes to the overall national economy.
Our strategy is directed towards supporting quality shipping, i.e. shipping with safety, respect for the marine environment, quality of service and entrepreneurship.
Our policies are condensed in the strengthening of competitiveness, the continuous training and economic upgrading of the seafarers, the international presence, the preservation of the white flag, the support of the shipbuilding and repair industry, the attraction of young people to the maritime profession, the continuous improvement of the terms of the national register.
We attach particular importance to policy measures for passenger shipping, coastal shipping and commercial yachts, as they support the regional development and social cohesion of our islands, the tourism industry and marine tourism.
The maintenance of a competitive coastal shipping industry combined with the concepts of public interest application, in accordance with Community law on the liberalisation of maritime intermodal transport, will lead us to the desired balance of development and support for the island country.
The strengthening of port policies, maritime border security, active presence in international organisations and protection of the marine environment are important objectives to support the overall shipping industry.
Ensured the employment of seafarers on board cabotage vessels for at least ten months. -
Measures to protect young seafarers (prohibition under 16 years of age, health and safety protection, rest period)
- Maximum working hours for crews of S/S vessels were established
- Maximum working hours or minimum rest periods were guaranteed on the basis of international and European conventions
- NAP pensions were adjusted from 62.5% to 70% of the basic salary and the supplementary pension was increased from 1% to 1.5%. -
Proposed a regulation on the pension entitlement of those who have served the last 48 months on inland ferries, based on the basic salary of the Collective Agreement, and an upgrade of the pension salary class for electricians and radiotelegraphers;
- Reduced the tax rate for seafarers to 3% for junior crews and 6% for officers.
The upgrading of the educational system continued in order for Greek students to be able to meet the ever-increasing demands of international shipping.
A special Committee for the Evaluation of Studies was set up
Qualitative characteristics in all shipping stakeholders (Greek-owned fleet, seafarers, training, port infrastructure).
Competitive shipping with programmes to modernise the country's ports and measures to support entrepreneurship, the maritime profession and education.
Synergy between shipownership and maritime labour in the framework of a National Maritime Policy Council.
The strengthening of short sea shipping and Mediterranean shipping, the extension of the trans-European networks to the main islands, the creation of maritime safety routes, the implementation of the rules of the White Paper on transport and shipping, the continuous upgrading of the age of the fleet, the strengthening of port infrastructure and increasingly modern training systems should also be considered as basic directions of our maritime policy in the new four-year period.
The application of new technologies and the strengthening of the Coast Guard with means and people will give a further significant boost to the above policies.
Establishment of a National Maritime Policy Council.
Strengthening the Greek presence in the International Maritime Organization and other international organizations.
Claiming the seat of the European Maritime Safety Agency in Piraeus.
Operational improvements for seafarers' insurance rights and a one-off increase.
Intensify controls on the employment of Greek seafarers.
Modernisation of the National Social Security Fund (computerisation, real estate development, connection with the CCP, development of the Merchant Navy Hospital in cooperation with the Ministry of Health.
Reduction of taxes on newbuildings and small vessels in order to ensure quality and safe shipping
and boost employment of seafarers.
Establishment of a Passenger Bill of Rights.
Promote a system of long-term chartering of vessels for a stable service to small islands.
Implementation of the Ship and Port Security Code.
Intensify the programme to attract young people to the maritime profession and strengthen the Greek Seafarers' Employment Organisation and the General Maritime Organisation.
Modernisation of maritime education, study on the establishment of a maritime university, reform and further subsidy of educational voyages.
Expansion of the VTS maritime traffic regulation system and modernisation of the Naval Operations Room.
Completion and activation of the Register of Shipbuilding Enterprises and improvement of their infrastructure.
Modernisation of port infrastructure with a budget of €650 million.
Strengthening the staffing of the Coast Guard / Coast Guard Academy in Alexandroupolis
Creation of a European Maritime Border Centre for illegal immigration control, based in Piraeus|.
The strong development of Greek agriculture and the countryside, the increase of the real incomes and welfare of our farmers and, consequently, the economic and social convergence of our rural economy with the rest of our national economy, have been fundamental objectives of PASOK since its foundation.
All these years, PASOK and the rural world have gone together.
And we conquered a lot:
The farmer and the rural dweller were taken out of the political, social and economic margins and became equal citizens of the country.
The social, economic and participatory role of women in the countryside was upgraded.
Local communities have emerged from the doldrums and decline.
It highlighted the irreplaceable productive role of agriculture and the agri-food sector as a whole, in development, prosperity and wealth creation for the benefit of the national economy, our society and the whole country.
These major changes did not happen by chance.
It is the result of many major changes, such as:
- Continuous institutional reforms that have upgraded the role of local communities;
- Infrastructure projects of national, regional and local scope that have changed the image of the countryside. -
The development of transport and telecommunications of all kinds, which have broken the economic, social and cultural isolation;
- The continuous upgrading of the welfare state, which has a decisive presence in small and medium-sized provincial towns and villages.
Above all, it was the result of the agricultural policies that were implemented and related both to the European decisions that we negotiated as a country and to the national policy measures that we, as a government, developed and implemented.
It is a fact that agriculture, not only in Greece but also in the world, is in a period of reorganization and adaptation to the new conditions that have been formed in the international system of production and marketing of agricultural products and foodstuffs.
Quality agriculture is dynamically emerging as the new model for the production, processing and marketing of agricultural products and food, as consumers demand certified quality, safety and hygiene in food and all citizens expect farmers to use environmentally friendly production methods that contribute to animal welfare.
These rapid and profound changes and shifts in the agricultural and food sectors are bound to create problems of adaptation, but also new opportunities for agriculture and the rural economy.
PASOK placed great emphasis on policy measures that facilitate the transition from the old to the new agri-food model.
With our strong political interventions, the economic and social landscape in the rural world is changing rapidly.
The countryside is becoming a field for the development of many other productive activities besides agriculture.
We put an end to the conservative, right-wing policy that saw Greek farmers and rural residents as cheap labour.
We have stopped the bleeding of the Greek countryside and turned it from a source of economic migrants into a place of reception for them.
Today, many areas of the Greek countryside have nothing to envy from the big urban centres.
Our vision is that in the coming years, the big urban centres will have much to envy from the developed Greek countryside.
We are establishing a strong agricultural sector with dynamic, fully employed professional farmers, able to compete successfully in European and international markets.
At the same time, PASOK implemented special rural development measures creating new employment and income opportunities for partially employed farmers and rural residents.
Full or part-time employment in our agriculture sector continues to be high, its contribution to our exports is close to 30%, while the food industry accounts for 22% of the country's total industry.
EU Enlargement opens up new prospects for Greek agricultural products and foodstuffs.
The growing demand for the "Mediterranean Diet" and the organization of the Olympic Games, which will bring hundreds of thousands of people from all over the world in contact with Greek food products, will create new opportunities and new markets.
The last four years have seen major changes to the Common Agricultural Policy.
With the implementation of the so-called "Agenda 2000" measures, a particularly high level of support for our products has been achieved.
As a result of all this, our total receipts from the Community Budget for the support of our products amount to 2.6 billion Euros per year (about 900 billion Greek marks).
Greece is the only EU Member State that receives about twice as much of the Community funding for product support as the share of our country in the Community's agricultural production.
Proof of this truth is the fact that public expenditure on rural development measures between the 2nd and 3rd CSF increased from 3.5 billion Euros (1.2 billion dirhams) to 6.5 billion Euros (2.2 trillion dirhams), i.e. almost doubled.
These resources are allocated to a wide range of programmes and actions concerning the improvement of the competitiveness of agriculture, early retirement, the establishment of new farmers, the upgrading of the quality of the products produced, the creation and modernisation of marketing and processing infrastructure, the development of the multifunctional character of farms, rural tourism, the development of new activities, the implementation of new systems for the development and promotion of products and services, the creation of new production infrastructure (dams, ponds, etc.), the development of new production facilities, the development of new production facilities and the promotion of new products and services.
empowering the inhabitants of mountainous and disadvantaged areas, removing the isolation of these areas and much more
The programmes implemented by the Ministry of Agriculture - i.e. the Operational Programmes "Rural Development/Rural Reconstruction" (RDP), "Fisheries" (RDP), "Leader+ Community Initiative" and "Rural Development Programming Document" (RDP), with a total cost of €6.6 billion - are among the most competitive national operational programmes.
Until today:
10,000 improvement projects have been integrated.
12,500 Young Farmers are supported.
700 investment projects in the processing and marketing of agricultural products are supported.
17 major land reclamation projects are being implemented.
Includes 223 small public works of Integrated Programmes.
473 projects are included in the Leader+ programme.
28 fishing ports are built.
133 aquaculture investment projects are supported.
46,000 beneficiaries are boosted in the Early Retirement Programme.
126,000 beneficiaries in the Compensatory Allowance programme are given a premium.
If all of the above is now an achievement for Greek farmers and rural society in general, two recent decisions have put the prospect of the development of Agriculture and the Countryside on a new strong and solid basis.
Decisions taken at the EU Summit in October 2002 ensured that the CAP - and therefore producer subsidies - would be funded until 2013 at their current levels, increased by 1% per year.
This decision put an end to the uncertainty and insecurity among producers, which was deliberately fostered by many.
This decision guarantees years of stability and certainty for all our farmers.
Farmers, with their "predetermined (guaranteed) subsidies", are the only professionals who know with certainty the financial framework within which they will operate in the next decade.
After a systematic and painstaking effort by the Greek Presidency, in June 2003 the first historic decisions for the radical revision of the CAP were taken and the way for the revision of olive oil, cotton, tobacco and sugar was defined, with specific commitments for their financing.
The main benefits for our country from these decisions, apart from the certainty of financing our agriculture for the next decade, are:
- Subsidies will be paid directly to producers without intermediaries and middlemen;
- The cow's milk quota has been increased by 120,000 tonnes;
- Policies for young farmers have been improved;
- Rural development and reconstruction has been strengthened with new funds and new measures;
- The possibility of better protection of our forests is provided; and many more.
The continuous growth and strengthening of our economy and the consolidation of the ATE, contributed decisively to the low cost of production in agriculture.
Reduction of production costs
- Farmers' borrowing costs have been dramatically reduced over the last decade, from 25% in 1993 to 4.5% for working capital and 6.5% for investment;
- VAT refund rates have been increased to 4-6% depending on agricultural activity;
- The agricultural oil tax has been reduced by 224 Euros per tonne;
- Subsidies for electricity for agricultural use continue.
- Full exemption from the transfer tax on agricultural land for agricultural use was introduced.
The adverse weather conditions and the major natural disasters of recent years have put the uninterrupted progress of our agriculture at risk.
During this period, farmers felt the care of the State, which paid hundreds of billions of drachmas worth of compensation through both the PSAs and ELGA.
The operation of ELGA has been significantly improved, the payment time has been halved and is one of the shortest in Europe.
Particularly privileged are also the damage rates and insurable risks covered by ELGA.
The transformation of the OGA into a Main Insurance Fund with 2/3 state participation leads to a continuous upgrading of the organisation.
The basic pension for each of the two spouses now amounts to €200/month, the supplementary pension ranges from €70 to €128 and the main pension from €34 to €98 for 5 years of insurance.
Specifically for farmers, the basic pension is granted without the obligation to join the compulsory insurance scheme, the insured person is exempted from paying contributions when she has a second child, the maternity allowance is increased, and a special allowance for nurseries is granted.
OΓEKA DIMITRA will continue to offer education and training through its operating TEEs and KEGEs, while the launch of the Green Certificate procedures will also be a means of ensuring the agricultural profession.
The pilot assignment to 25 KEPs of rural municipalities of the provision of information to farmers is expected to contribute to the mobilisation of productive potential.
Despite what is happening in many countries inside and outside the EU, Greek food is proving to be very safe and healthy.
This is due to the continuous expansion and improvement of the effectiveness of the quality control mechanisms of products of plant and animal origin, both by the Agriculture Departments and the Central Services of the Ministry of Agriculture and by EFET at all stages of production, distribution and sale of products.
The increasing demand for high quality products or products with designation of origin has mobilized the Ministry's services and many farmers.
In this direction, the newly established Organic Agriculture Directorate, the National Council for Organic Agriculture and the OPEGEP will play an important role.
A series of government initiatives and interventions have contributed to the institutional modernisation of the mechanisms at the service of the farmer.
Thus:
a. At the initiative of the Prime Minister, the Interministerial Committee for Rural Development was created with the aim of coordinating the actions of all ministries that contribute to rural development.
b. The implementation of national measures and incentives for the establishment of new farmers was systematized and simplified.
c. OPEGEP has systematically expanded its activities, today effectively supports the qualitative upgrading of our agricultural production and plays a key role in ensuring the administrative transparency and legitimacy of the system of payments of Community aid to farmers.
d. The first inter-branch organisations were set up in the sectors of Vine and Wine, Fruit and Vegetables, Tobacco, Olive Oil and Olives.
The Greek farmer has entered a trajectory of convergence with his European colleague.
In recent years there has been a clear increase in agricultural income in real terms per unit of labour in Greece.
Over the last three years this has risen by 13.8% in real terms, one of the highest increases in Europe.
Convergence of the farmer with the employed in the rest of the economy.
In recent years, income per person employed in agriculture has been growing faster than income per person employed in other economic sectors.
The Regions of our country are converging.
In contrast to the general picture in Europe, regional disparities in our country have fallen by 10% in the last period and are among the lowest in the Union.
The distance between Attica and Epirus, for example, is significantly shorter than between northern and southern Italy or eastern and western Germany.
Greek agriculture today enjoys a great and multifaceted support. And we will continue the effort.
Because, PASOK and the rural world together, we have a common vision, a common destiny:
- We want even greater incomes for farmers;
- We want even greater security and certainty for every rural household;
- We want even better service for farmers from public services.
We want, in short, full economic and social convergence of the Greek farmer and rural dweller with his European counterparts.
- Sustainable and strong, vibrant communities with a demographic balance, sufficient income and employment (sustainable countryside).
- Where their inhabitants enjoy a standard of living and a quality of life worthy of a modern and strong Greece (prosperous countryside).
- Adapt easily to major economic, social, cultural and environmental changes (living countryside).
- a countryside in which the maximum possible number of full-time and part-time farms, mainly family farms, are maintained (rural countryside).
- Where there are equal development opportunities for all residents, who enjoy access to education, training and lifelong learning (socially just countryside).
- To participate actively in the various decision-making bodies that affect them in a society based on the principles of equality and social justice (democratic countryside).
- The cultural identity of rural communities, and in particular their customs, traditions, cultural heritage and "communitarianism", should not only be preserved but also further strengthened (rural culture).
- These communities should respect the natural environment - which is one of the main assets of the countryside - and the development of the rural economy should be based on the principles of sustainable development (ecological countryside).
- a countryside, finally, in which there is strong social cohesion and concrete policy measures to eradicate poverty and social exclusion (social countryside).
For the new four-year period, we have planned to implement, in full cooperation and partnership with local communities, the following key strategic objectives:
Providing security and stability to the farmer and his family.
Substantially improve the competitiveness of our agricultural products.
Intensification of investment programmes for agricultural development and sustainable rural development.
Improving the efficiency of the public sector and its services that implement agricultural policies and serve farmers.
To achieve these strategic goals, we have planned to implement the following actions:
Ensuring the future prospects of agriculture and the farmer is the core of PASOK's government action in the agricultural sector and a key axis of our programme for the next government period.
With the new CAP Reform we have secured funding for agriculture for the whole of the coming decade.
With the same decisions we have also secured strong and continuous funding for the development of the economy and rural society.
For the next four years, we are placing particular emphasis on policy measures aimed at safeguarding the farmer and agricultural production.
- With the decisions we have already taken, we are safeguarding a significant part of the farmer's annual income, regardless of the volume of his production.
- With the Implementation Plan for the new CAP that we have prepared, we are ensuring the smooth implementation of the measures, the simplification of procedures, the timely payment of aid, without intermediaries and without friction in the mills and ginning plants.
- In order to protect the farmer's production, the completion of the project to upgrade ELGA, the extension of crop declarations, the introduction of the reinsurance system, the full integration of the PPAs, have upgraded ELGA to one of the most modern insurance organisations in Europe, capable of offering new insurance products that will cover all the needs of the modern farmer.
The experience of the last few years is a strong testimony and a guarantee for the future.
ELGA will be enlarged to cover damage caused by economic risks.
In addition, compensation will be paid in the shortest possible time.
In cases of major damage, an immediate advance payment will be made.
- For long-serving farmers, the government has already committed to increase the basic OGA pension for each of the two spouses to 300 euros at the end of the four-year period, which gives certainty to retired farmers.
In the event of widowhood, the surviving member will receive part of the deceased's pension.
The time for the payment of pensions will be substantially shortened;
- For the early retirement of farmers, we have decided to continue and extend it. -
To improve the farmer's medical coverage, with the simplest procedures and in the best medical institutions, we have planned to expand the programmes covering all basic forms of preventive medicine and to issue health cards for hospital and pharmaceutical care benefits;
- The granting of the Green Certificate, which we have already established, will also be a strong measure to secure the farmer's profession.
- We are proceeding with the implementation of the Farmers' Register from 1/1/2005 both for reasons of social justice and as a measure to ensure the timely payment of subsidies to farmers.
The Rural Home Programme will be extended to cover all the insured and pensioners of the Organisation, while beneficiaries will be entitled to participate in the Social Tourism Programme of the LEA.
The geo-climatic conditions of our country and the composition of our agricultural production favour the production of safe, healthy and certified agricultural products and quality foodstuffs that are addressed to specific niche markets and consumers.
With the right policy measures, all farms in the country, regardless of size and location, can make a constructive contribution towards quality agriculture, introducing innovations, improving organisation and management.
- We seek to maintain the largest possible number of farms, both full and part-time, in agriculture.
- We aim to continue organising our agriculture on the basis of family farming.
- We aim to develop full- and part-time agriculture by enhancing the viability of all farms while ensuring the multi-activity of the smallest ones.
- We aim not only at the sustainability of farms but mainly at the sustainability of all rural households with specific and differentiated actions so that all rural households enjoy a satisfactory agricultural income from agricultural, agro-industrial and non-agricultural activities.
To achieve these individual objectives, in addition to continuing the policies we are already implementing, particular emphasis will be placed on the following actions:
We will continue and further intensify actions to establish young, dynamic and well-trained farmers and farm women in agriculture and help modernise existing full-time and part-time farms.
The Ministry of Agriculture intends to declare 2005 as the Year of Quality. This will maximise the effect of the efforts made to upgrade our production, spread the necessary messages to farmers, the entire agri-food sector and consumers.
At the same time, all actions aimed at linking agricultural production with the demands of the modern consumer will be intensified.
Preferential support for any action that improves the quality of the product produced.
Systematic development of Integrated Management, Organic Agriculture and Livestock and PDO, PGI, etc.
The newly established National Council for Organic Agriculture will play an important role in this direction.
Smooth and widespread implementation of the new quality improvement measures and codes of good agricultural practice resulting from the implementation of the new CAP.
Ensuring food hygiene and safety by further activating and modernising the services of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Hellenic Food Safety Authority.
Certification of food quality, by intensifying the work of OPEGEP.
Implement the highest animal health standards, with the eradication of zoonoses and complete the modernisation of the slaughterhouse infrastructure.
Combating fraud and defamation of our products.
Integrating research into agricultural production.
The establishment of the 13 National Institutes of Agricultural Research is expected to play a key role in upgrading the National Agricultural Research Institute, linking research to the productive needs of agriculture and the agri-food sector in general.
Of particular importance is the creation of 27 Agricultural Research Application Centres, which will be centres for the demonstration and practical application of the results of modern research and technology.
These Centres, which are distributed in most of the country's prefectures, in cooperation with OGEEKA "DIMITRA", will be the cells for the creation of a new generation of innovative farmers.
The new institution of the "Farmer's Advisor" will play a catalytic role in our policy for quality agriculture, but also for ensuring the sustainability of all rural households.
This institution will operate in the form of a network and will cover all rural municipalities in the country.
Experts will provide geotechnical, economic and social advice, guiding farmers on the implementation and sustainability of their production choices.
Services for farmers will be created in the existing KEPs, at the level of the Kapodistrian municipalities of the country.
Despite the arrangements of agricultural debts by ATE, some farmers are unable to meet their obligations.
To this end, we will promote a regulation that will provide for a repayment with a maximum of twice the initial capital.
Repayment will be made over a period of 25 years at an interest rate of 3%.
A Special Guarantee Fund will be set up to facilitate access to business initiatives for innovative farmers.
With the completion of the settlement of the debts of the agricultural cooperatives, a cycle of the cooperative movement in our country has come to an end.
PASOK and its government will support the creation and upgrading of a new generation of cooperatives and producer organisations, when they meet specific conditions such as:-
Contribute actively to the extroversion of our agriculture, to the establishment of our products in domestic and foreign markets. -
They effectively strengthen the bargaining power, economic position and orientation to the new circumstances of their member farmers;
- They incorporate into their operation new mechanisms for the implementation of agricultural policy that are spreading rapidly in the EU, such as Producer Groups.
They are stronger, larger, sectoral, specialised and profitable organisations which consolidate the productive and commercial awareness of their members, rather than simply managing them.
In other words, it is the New Generation Cooperatives that we envision and support and will develop in close cooperation with the rural world of the country.
The vast majority of agricultural production is directed to the consumer through the food industry.
The food industry is not only the engine of Greek manufacturing, but also contributes to the development of rural areas, as a large part of it is located in the countryside.
With the participation of all social partners (government, food industry, traders and exporters, farmers' organisations) our actions for the development of a highly competitive food sector in our country include:
- The implementation of a comprehensive and more aggressive plan for the effective promotion and penetration of our products in the international and domestic market.
- Strengthening the sectoral vertical link between the primary, secondary and tertiary sectors.
- Focusing efforts on sectors with increased added value.
- The greatest use of products with designation of origin.
- The development and training of human resources and entrepreneurship of those involved in the agri-food chain.
- The integration of new technologies and innovations that enhance the competitiveness and quality of the whole sector.
- The creation of specialized networks for the distribution of products in the domestic and foreign markets.
- The establishment and operation of Interprofessional Organisations in the other key sectors.
- Ensuring healthy competition between industry and retailers.
The continuous effort to consolidate the movement of fruit and vegetables.
A large part of our country's citizens live in the countryside, which accounts for more than 85% of the country's geographical area.
Our vision is to create sustainable and strong communities, full of vitality, with demographic balance, sufficient income, sufficient employment.
A countryside where its inhabitants enjoy a quality of life worthy of a modern and strong Greece.
A socially just countryside
and democratic,
which strengthens its traditions and cultural heritage
protects its natural environment.
But the rural economy and society is not a homogeneous and uniform whole throughout the territory.
That is why our policies will continue to be specific and tailored to the specific needs of each region.
In the next government period, we will intensify our efforts to successfully complete all these actions that are currently underway and which relate to the following:
The Ministry of Agriculture, as part of its policies for the development of a modern, competitive, sustainable, quality and low environmental cost agricultural sector, designed and is implementing during the Third Programming Period the Operational Programmes "Rural Development/Rural Reconstruction" (RDPA.Y.), "Fisheries" (FPAL), "Leader+ Community Initiative" and "Rural Development Programming Document" (RDPD), at a total cost of EUR 6.6 billion.
Our planning for the next four years includes, among other things:
supporting farmers' improvement projects.
The support of investment projects in the processing and marketing of our agricultural, fishery and forestry products.
Supporting the establishment of Young Farmers.
The implementation of 2,000 public and private projects in the Integrated Programmes.
The creation of 14,000 jobs in total in the EAPA-AA and 37,000 jobs during the implementation of the projects.
The implementation of 3,000 Leader+ projects, mainly concerning rural tourism and support for small and medium-sized enterprises and the creation of 3,000 jobs and 8,000 jobs during their implementation.
The progress made has led, in the context of the mid-term review, to the reinforcement of the available appropriations, mainly for the EAFRD, with additional total resources of EUR 359 million to be allocated to support mainly investments in farms, processing, Young Farmers and Integrated Programmes, which will help to support more beneficiaries and investment projects.
Particular emphasis, due to the importance and interest shown, has been placed on agri-tourism.
Agrotourism and rural tourism in general is one of the major development reservoirs of many regions of the country.
It improves rural income, offers alternative employment solutions, strengthens traditional professions, contributes to the creation of demand and promotion of authentic local products, contributes to the revival of traditional settlements, the promotion of cultural heritage and the natural wealth of the countryside, enriches the national tourist product.
For these reasons, its financial support remains at the heart of our efforts, both with the financial instruments currently underway (Integrated Rural Development Programmes, Leader, Rural Development Planning Document, programmes of the General Secretariat of Tourism, EOT) and with new ones that will emerge from the successful negotiation of the 4th CSF.
Substantive negotiations on the 4th CSF will start in the near future.
Our overriding objective will be both to increase the resources that will be made available in Greece, and to emphasize integrated development measures for local rural communities, settlements, infrastructure, local entrepreneurship, agri-tourism, the creation of additional income, social and cultural infrastructure, development support institutions.
Our country has gained a great deal of experience in implementing rural development programmes, both from the MOPs and from the three CIPs, the Leader Initiative and the other smaller-scale programmes.
During the negotiations of the 4th CSF and other development-related programmes, the creation of a single framework programme for the whole country will be one of our main objectives.
This will group together measures relating to agriculture and the countryside, allow a more efficient and flexible allocation of resources to those actions for which there is greater interest, simplify procedures, monitoring and management, and reduce bureaucracy.
Our focus continues to be on connecting the countryside and reducing isolation.
The Public Investment Programme will continue to place great emphasis on improving infrastructure, overcoming chronic weaknesses, promoting inter-regional - national, provincial and rural road network and telecommunications projects.
The completion of this programme will create a Greece without isolated and inaccessible areas.
To bring out the vitality of the countryside, to make the countryside attractive, we support the creation and continuous modernisation of infrastructure and social services.
We also support small-scale services such as crèches, sports and leisure centres, mobile medical units, technical support, advice and information services.
Therefore, the development of agriculture and rural areas must go hand in hand with sustainability, sustainability.
The Greek countryside faces fewer sustainability problems than most of the other EU Member States.
Thus, with timely choices and proper targeting we can achieve the desired results.
In the next government period, the policy measures we will implement will concern:
We will continue to implement the programme of the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Environment and Public Works for the creation of dams, reservoirs and smaller local projects.
Particular emphasis will be placed on the management of water resources through the coordination of the recently established National Water Commission and National Water Council.
The preparation of Management Plans for each region will ensure an integrated approach to the problem for each region of the country, the management of the water supply and demand balance, the decentralisation of decisions, social participation in decision-making, the protection of water resources and their quality, and the balance between groundwater pumping and recharge.
The new CAP Reform, sets as a necessary condition for the payment of the single payment to the producer, the observance of codes of Good Agricultural Practice.
These codes are relatively simple rules that the farmer must follow when cultivating the land or raising animals.
The Ministry of Agriculture has designed an extensive information programme for farmers in cooperation with farmers' organisations and local authorities and is proceeding immediately with its implementation.
Moreover, with the start of the implementation of the new CAP measures, the payment of special financial incentives to producers has been foreseen, for the timely and smooth implementation of the new measures.
Our country played a key role in freezing the expansion of the cultivation of GM products.
The implementation of the EU regulations on the labelling and traceability of products containing GMOs is particularly welcome.
As far as the cultivation of these products in our country is concerned, we believe that their cultivation cannot be allowed.
As we know, there is no EU institutional framework that regulates the protection of conventional and organic crops from contamination with mutants.
The experience gained, but also the citizen's expectation for continuous improvement of the services provided, make it necessary to be constantly vigilant, to take corrective measures, to address the problems and gaps that exist.
The implementation of the recent decision to establish regional services of OPEKEPE.
The creation of an OPEKEPE service at the level of every prefecture in the country within the next four years.
In this way, the problem of timely payment of aid will be definitively addressed;
- Fully reorganise and modernise the services of the Ministry of Agriculture, its decentralised services and supervised agencies on the basis of the comprehensive plan already prepared.
Implementation from the beginning of the next four years of:
- Electronic service for citizens in all their transactions with the Ministry of Agriculture and the Agencies;
- An intensive programme to improve the quality and speed of service to citizens.
The Ministry has already launched a call-centre as part of this initiative.
Creation of a new web portal of the Ministry of Agriculture on the Internet.
We all want a society characterised by security and safety.
We all want a society of cohesion and solidarity.
We all understand why everyone can perform better with sufficient motivation, away from the nightmare of unemployment.
It is easy to see how, if growth is based on human resources, work and entrepreneurship, it is better for everyone.
In the world of the 21st century, all this does not come alone.
The axiom that markets do not fail, that the economy should be left on autopilot, is unsustainable and dangerous.
It certainly leads to individual insecurity and social degradation.
In the globalised economy, believing in the infallibility of 'automatic' market decisions is tantamount to abandoning people to their fate.
The pursuit of profit without increasing productivity and labour wages, but only by squeezing labour costs, crushes man and destroys the economy.
The central gamble of Greek society, from 1994 onwards, was the prevention of this nightmare scenario.
This bet has been won, but only half of it:
The country's disastrous course of 1993 has been halted.
The negative trends have been reversed and since 2000 every year we are closer to real convergence.
The path towards macroeconomic stability was secured with the entry into EMU,
decades-old pending issues such as the social security system were resolved, new institutions were created and others were strengthened.
The foundations have been laid for further progress.
The new development path has started to bear fruit, not only in the economy but also in society.
Performance, as new policies pay off and as confidence is gained, is becoming more positive every year.
Complementarity of objectives and consistency of policy choices over time are paying off.
Social policy, social justice is a factor of production and a driving force of development.
It means more skills and consumption for workers,
increased productivity of production and wealth.
Redistribution is a primary goal, because it is a component of the just society we want.
For the parties of the Right, the basic option has always been a less welfare state, a reduction of costs and the redistribution of wealth, in favour of the few and at the expense of the many.
Redistribution was only a goal if it was to "our children" or its clientele.
In the world of the 21st century, globalisation for the Right is just a pretext to extend the market economy to the market society.
For socialists it is a means of enriching social policy
and promoting growth.
Socialists, in the context of real convergence, choose a strategy for the development of the economy, the
technological equipment of production
and the cohesion of society,
for the increase of investment,
productivity, for the improvement of competitiveness, for the
increase of employment,
of income,
of labour and social rights
and an increase in social expenditure, in the context of the options:
growth
- competitiveness -
employment -
regional cohesion,
based on the axis of competitiveness - quality rather than competitiveness - quantity.
The foundations of a development proposal where Greece competes on the basis of the quality of human resources have been laid.
The interventions now being made in employment and training are the largest in scope and most coherent efforts to raise labour productivity in the post-war period.
The continuous and planned increase in social services and social benefits is geared towards supporting the family and activating its dynamism.
On the basis of the resolution of the major pending social security issue, fertile fields of consensus can be built for the joint resolution of the problems.
The new physical infrastructure that is being completed, in Health, Welfare and elsewhere, allows for further steps to improve the quality of services.
The contours of the development trajectory of high quality, but also of high demands are clear today, in 2004.
Development builds its competitive advantage on human capital, invests in it and thus solves the dilemma of "growth or solidarity" by using social cohesion as a crucial component in the development effort.
In such a development proposal, social protection does not come as an afterthought, nor should it wait for successes in the economy to claim a share.
This development is not just about ensuring equal opportunities, but investing in ensuring equal opportunities.
But the bet is not yet won.
The Convergence Charter places employment and social cohesion policy at the heart of a balanced programme in which a sequence of initiatives in all areas of government policy support each other.
Its central commitment is to quantitative targets for increasing social protection services and benefits and intensifying the social cohesion effort.
For spending to be effective, the new social policy institutions must be in place, decentralisation must be implemented, there must be a climate of social consensus, and society must actively support the objective of cohesion.
A return to the old logic of autopilot in the economy and clientelism in social policy endangers even today's gains.
The Greek family will again be called upon, albeit this time alone, to provide whatever security it can.
In the new field of globalisation, this task will be much more difficult than before.
The downward slide of social disintegration is threatening.
In the next four years there is an opportunity to complete the choice of social convergence.
If we align ourselves with the solidarity and cohesion programme, we will build a Greek welfare state worthy of the European Social Model:
Putting people, labour, human and social capital at the centre of development.
Which supports the family as the core of cohesion.
Unleashing the individual's creativity with personalised support when needed.
Which guarantees the adequacy and sustainability of pensions.
Protecting the health of the population against new threats and ensuring the most modern and effective care for all.
Employment policy - training, support structures, entrepreneurship -
together with social policy - insurance, welfare, health, care - have a common starting point:
Real convergence can be based on the creativity and work of all.
Boosting employment, training, social inclusion and security are a set of interventions with a single strategic focus and a single rationale.
The aim is the gradual formation of an effective, modern, Human Social State - a new affirmation of politics towards Man.
This major project is based on four policy strands:
The key to success is employment - in productive and productive jobs.
Employment is the best guarantee of a high family income and the best shield against poverty.
Employment is the best guarantee for financing social protection but also for establishing adequate pensions.
Finally, employment creates the conditions for high-quality social services - worthy of the European Social Standard.
Exclusion from employment, conversely, leads to individual and social degradation - poverty and social exclusion.
The biggest ever intervention in employment and the labour market is currently underway.
With training programmes we are moving away from passive subsidising of problems to active capacity building.
These programmes have managed to reverse the negative trends, bringing unemployment down to its lowest point in a decade.
The Convergence Charter aims to build on the accumulated experience, with acceleration and more funds - so that job growth is the engine of growth.
For the welfare state to be successful, it must obey fair rules of common acceptance, it must be targeted and prioritised, and it must offer citizens high-quality services.
It must preserve and protect the sense of solidarity that characterises Greek society.
This solidarity is, after all, the shield against the threats of globalisation.
Since 1996, Greece has been the EU country that has increased social spending the most.
In 2002 it exceeded the EU average in the share of output redistributed to those most in need (pensions, welfare, health care).
The widening of redistribution was done while always maintaining social consensus.
No one, from any political quarters, openly disputes that this redistribution was desirable.
No one dares to openly call for a reduction in social spending, no matter how much they deny the means to achieve it.
The apparent consensus on income redistribution, unique in Europe, is a vote of confidence in the policy pursued in recent years - that the extra spending is working and has led to substantial improvements in social protection while preserving economic stability.
This social spending revitalised actions that had been deprived of resources, invested in improving the quality of services, launched new interventions such as Help at Home, and spearheaded social intervention.
But they also fund support for low incomes and those in need - by supporting low pensions or welfare benefits.
These interventions are having an impact.
Since 1997, the percentage of people living at the poverty line, as measured by the European Union, has fallen every year.
This steady reduction cumulatively means a 10% reduction in the risk of poverty or a reduction in the number of citizens at risk of poverty by 250 thousand people.
The decrease was particularly large for older people - one in seven older people who were at risk in 1995 were not in 2001.
It should also be borne in mind that the figures stop in 2001 - i.e. they do not include the impact of employment growth and unemployment reduction until 2003.
At the same time, however, the economic situation of people on low incomes is much better:
The average real income of people at risk of poverty between 1995 and 2001 rose by a quarter - 25%.
Transfers from the state - pensions and benefits - have also played a big role in this: 56% of the income of people below the precariousness line comes from transfers, compared to only 47% in 1996.
The Convergence Charter commits us to accelerate this path by increasing social spending by 3% of GDP to 30% of GDP.
This decisive boost will mean that the target of reducing the poverty rate to the EU average by 2008 will now be within our grasp.
The NHS - the possibility for every citizen to have equal access to health care without social or economic exclusion - is a PASOK achievement and the great stability for the years to come.
At the same time, the response of the system to the demands of the citizen makes its adaptation to the new century the greatest challenge in the social sector.
In the face of new and often unpredictable health threats, such as SARS recently, or AIDS in the past, the health system - its readiness, its technological and scientific completeness, the responsiveness and humanity of its staff - plays a key role in shielding our society.
If the goal is a sense of security for the citizen, health and healthcare is the most important component of it.
In 2004, the expansion and upgrading of the health infrastructure - hospitals, facilities, machinery, equipment - is almost complete.
At the same time, the regional decentralisation of the system has progressed, as has the modernisation of health funds and organised primary care in general.
The conditions are therefore in place for the next decisive step - upgrading the human factor to make use of the infrastructure.
This step is crucial to give the "voice to the user" - to make the system person-centred rather than doctor-centred.
For the coming four years, we have created the infrastructure, the conditions - financial, scientific, organizational - and we have the political will to lead to the overcoming of the problems facing the Hellenic Health Service.
The NHS, if we all want it, can work effectively as a health system, with free provision of high quality health services to the citizen.
It is a bet for us, to deal with the internal problems of the Hellenic Health Service with one and only guideline: the service of the citizen.
The establishment of primary health care, with urban health centres and the family doctor, will enable hospitals to operate more efficiently.
This bet, however, may be lost if our great choices, such as the public nature of the system, hospital care and health centres, are once again called into question and the public nature of the health system, with clear definitions of the private sector, becomes the prey of the domination of self-interest.
If there is no effective management - governance - all of the above will be just wishful thinking.
Governance is needed to coordinate the actions of individual sectors into a sense of security - a social fabric.
It is effective governance that brings out all the individual actions in a coherent social policy with clear objectives, goals, where synergies are not ignored.
It takes governance to prioritise, to set goals, to consistently and courageously follow a course over a number of years.
Governance is needed to have the preparedness to respond to emergencies, such as the Athens earthquake.
Finally, it is effective governance that seeks consensus, mobilises civil society, enables the individual to channel the individual's willingness to contribute to society as a whole.
The inclusion of social policy in the Convergence Charter, from the outset as a development lever and not as an ex-post gratuity, is perhaps the most important achievement in PASOK's development proposal.
The Charter commits to specific actions, which complement each other and lead to concrete, quantified and time-bound objectives.
The Charter is not content to say "we will do what we can".
It goes far beyond "we will do whatever it takes" to improve the life of the citizen in specific areas.
PASOK's other major choice - effective decentralisation - is a necessary condition for social policy to respond to the needs of the citizen, for his voice to be heard and for solutions to be offered to the essential problems he faces.
In a number of areas, PASOK has proceeded to create and strengthen institutions that can play a substantial role in decentralisation.
The CAPODISTRIES programme has created strong municipalities that can now play a substantial role in the Help at Home programme, or in supporting the Social Services Network.
The PESYs are the main avenue for the flexible response of the health infrastructure to local needs.
Regional Convergence Maps specify interventions in all sectors.
The increase in social spending - the largest since 1981 - was financed in a healthy way - without jeopardising the country's macroeconomic path.
In the past, increases in social spending were financed by borrowing, so after lasting for 2-3 years, they had to be cancelled because they were followed by inflation or balance of payments problems.
The funding was not through increased taxation, but came from two sources:
From growth itself.
Through the capture of the taxable material, which until then had been evaded.
So it was financed through better governance.
It represents the dividend of good governance.
Effective governance also means focusing on needs and targeting policies taking into account administrative realities.
Our aim is to continuously improve the benefits and care for those of our fellow citizens who are in a difficult situation, but we will continue, in particular, with general, specific and targeted arrangements for social groups of the population that have the greatest needs.
The operating system we choose is not that of a faceless bureaucracy, which cannot address the needs of the citizen in his or her moments of greatest weakness.
Such a system is rigid, inefficient and can lead to friction, create trouble spots and do not benefit those in need.
An effective network against social exclusion requires :
Decentralised implementation, by actors close to the problem, who have direct knowledge and can intervene immediately.
Individualized treatment, in a way that can diagnose the social problem and choose the most effective intervention method from the various methods.
In this way, the universal nature of social solidarity is guaranteed in practice.
The possibility of using high quality services, instead of relying on a subsidy approach of dubious effect.
In the years that have passed, we have persistently served the vision of an economy capable of providing jobs for more and more of its citizens, but also a society that takes responsibility for equipping its members with the necessary skills that lead to jobs.
We have more than kept our political promise of 2000 and created over 300,000 new job opportunities, over 350,000 training places for the unemployed and an even larger number of trained workers.
We have reduced the unemployment rate for young people and women, while the share of long-term unemployed has also declined.
With the Employment Promotion Centres (EPCs) and the improvement of services to the unemployed we have increased the effectiveness of our interventions.
The two Action Plans were developed.
The new National Action Plan for Employment (NAP)
and the new National Action Plan for Social Inclusion (NAPSI).
The Programme for investment in human resources (for employment,
training,
education
promoting equal opportunities for women).
Training of the unemployed.
Training of employees.
Promotion in employment.
Education.
Gender equality.
Provision of Accompanying Support Services.
Employment Programme.
A programme for young freelancers in productive sectors.
New jobs programme for women.
New jobs programme for young people aged 18-30.
Programme for vulnerable social groups.
Young Freelancers Programme in Culture.
Work experience programme (Stage) in the information and communications sector.
Work Experience Programme (Stage).
Young Freelancers Programme in the field of protection, management and promotion of the natural environment.
Training 300,000 unemployed and 300,000 workers during the 3rd CSF.
In cooperation with the Ministry of Education, a law was passed on the National System for Linking Vocational Education and Training with Employment (NESECA).
The OAED was restructured.
Operation of 67 CFCs by the end of 2003.
Recruitment of labour advisers.
Personalised approach to unemployed people.
15. Compulsory placement programme in the public and private sector for people of special categories (large families, people with disabilities, etc.).
New income support from 1/1/02: Three additional new measures to facilitate social inclusion are proposed.
The income of households in permanent residences in mountainous and disadvantaged areas with an annual family income of less than 2,200 was boosted.
141/month was given to long-term unemployed persons aged 45 to 65 years old who have been unemployed for more than 12 months and declare a family income of up to 2,935 .
293 per year was given as a pre-school - school allowance for children up to 16 years old.
The institution of the Agricultural Hestias is promoted along the lines of the Labour Hestias, with OGA as the implementing agency (Law 3050/2002).
The social tourism policy of the Workers' Centre was extended.
Law 3029/2002 "Reform of the Social Security System" was passed, after a social dialogue.
The law is being rapidly implemented.
Integration of the special funds into the IKA.
Committee on Heavy and Unhealthy Occupations.
Creation of the Single Fund for Employees' Social Insurance (ETEAM).
Operation of the National Actuarial Authority.
Supporting the procedures for the establishment of the first Professional Insurance Funds.
Start the procedures foreseen for the consolidation of the scattered supplementary funds.
Operational Modernisation of Funds.
Decree Laws have been issued on the protection of the health and safety of workers, concerning pregnant workers (Decree Law 41/03), explosive atmospheres (Decree Law 42/03), carcinogens (Decree Law 43/03) and chemical agents (Decree Law 338/2001 and Decree Law 339/2001).
With the law. 2910/2001 "Entry and residence of foreigners in Greece, acquisition of Greek citizenship by naturalization and other provisions" regulates the employment and insurance issues of foreigners as well as issues of medical and hospital care.
In the welfare sector:
pension regulation - pension - insurance issue - welfare
The Social Support Services Network operates under the National Action Plan for Social Inclusion (Inclusion).
Law 3106/2003 on the Restructuring of the National Social Care System was passed.
The Social Solidarity Network was expanded and upgraded (operation of 900 new "Help at Home" units).
Establishment and operation of 62 Day Care Centres for the Elderly.
Creation and operation of 35 Centres for the Creative Employment of People with Disabilities.
Establishment and operation of 270 new Childcare Centres and Childcare Centres.
Operation of 20 Social Support and Training Centres for people with disabilities (KEKYKAMEA).
Establishment of Medical and Social Centres for Gypsies.
Operation of two Mobile Units of Social and Medical Intervention.
Health spending has almost doubled since 1995, absorbing more than 8% of the state budget.
We have thus created the conditions for the creation of hospitals, investments in means and equipment (CT and MRI scanners, artificial kidney units, mobile ambulance units), but also in the strengthening of human resources: doctors in hospitals have increased by 25% and nursing staff by 18%.
Thus, in the years that have passed, a practical confirmation of the fundamental choice was given - the support, modernisation and upgrading of the NHS.
The NHS as the core of the health care system can and must establish standards of operation and quality that promote its ultimate goal - the protection and promotion of the health of the people.
After 20 years of operation, no one dares to openly question the role of the NHS at the core of health care.
The danger to the NHS and the system comes from elsewhere: from the loss of commitment to the goal and the introversion that allows all kinds of self-interest to undermine the image and reality of care in our country.
The programme that is now underway aims to do this and has already fulfilled two crucial conditions:
The physical upgrading with modern, technologically sound infrastructure throughout the territory.
The regional dimension in administration and staff planning.
PESYs free the system from hydrocephalus and are a necessary condition for reorienting care in the best interests of the patient.
Specifically:
The Boards of Directors in hospitals were abolished and professional managers (Administrators and Deputy Administrators, Administrators - Managers) were appointed in their place.
Law 2889/2001 on the operation of the PES was passed and is being implemented.
Staffing of the PSCs.
The PHCs and the Hospitals proceeded with the preparation of their Five-Year Operational Plans.
The "GENERAL STRATEGIC AND BUSINESS PLAN OF ACTION for the implementation of the Reform Programme "HEALTH FOR THE CITIZEN" 2000 -2006" has been completed.
The programme has started to evolve.
The first phase of the Health - Welfare Charter was completed and implemented.
Urban-type Health Centres were created
The Health Resource Management Organisation (HRMO) was established The
daily operation of NHS health services was improved.
The upgrading of Special Units, including the increase of beds in Intensive Care Units (ICUs) is one of the "12" priorities.
A special service entitled "Patient Reception Service" was established in the Hospitals.
The operation of evening clinics was established.
A regulatory ministerial decision was issued for the autonomous operation of the country's Emergency Departments (EDs) and the units were reinforced with staff.
Management in hospitals has been improved with the introduction of the double-entry accounting system and the introduction of computerised systems.
The NHS Infrastructure Upgrade Programme 2000 - 2006 is being implemented in 16 hospitals in Athens and Thessaloniki (General Hospitals "Evangelismos", "Gennimatas", "KAT", "Asclepion of Voula", "Koyaleineio - Benakio", Thessaloniki General Hospital "Hippokratio", "G. Papanikolaou".
 New Medical Equipment Supply Program.
The New Hospital of Alexandroupolis was handed over.
The new extension of the Hospital of Chios was put up for auction.
The tender and the installation of the contractor for the New Oncology Hospital "Agioi Anargyroi" was completed.
The New Hospital of Serres is operational.
The Hospitals of Grevena, Thebes and Argos were relocated.
The study for the New Hospital of Chalkida was completed.
The installation of the University Hospitals and the Clinics of the NHS in the new University Hospital of Alexandroupolis was completed.
15 University Clinics were relocated to Papageorgiou Hospital.
Full employment is for PASOK both an independent objective and a precondition for growth and prosperity in a strong and competitive Greece.
We have sharpened our employment strategy, aware of the challenges of the new economic environment but also of the technological and demographic data that are changing the rules of the game and increasing the demands for long-term interventions rather than short-term fire-fighting corrective moves.
Today, with the benefit of the wealth of positive and negative experience we have gained, we are able to map out our future interventions with greater effectiveness, in order to bring closer our great goal of employment for all who want it.
Work that meets the needs of those who work and those who are excluded from the margins of the labour markets, work that is adequately remunerated so that it is an attractive option for everyone, work that is safe, qualitative and creative.
Mobility opportunities in open labour markets, not barriers that punish the less fortunate.
A job fit for the economies of prosperity and progress that make up the United Europe.
Today we are closer to our target as we have managed to reduce unemployment to its lowest point in a decade and at the same time we have managed to increase employment.
Our priorities for the coming period reflect and encapsulate the vision of full employment, for the society it secures:
Upgrading the education system and linking it to the economy and the workplace.
Increasing the adaptability of firms and workers to economic changes and improving labour demand and supply.
Shifting public investment towards the human factor and quality.
Our commitment is: no young person or young unemployed person under 30 without personalised support, training or employment for more than 6 months.
No long-term unemployed person without corresponding support for more than 12 months.
We are taking bold measures, learning from the experience of our European partners.
We are proposing a new employment scheme, including our young people, along two lines:
The mobilisation of the unemployed to fill vacancies.
Creating new jobs at lower costs for businesses.
Our aim is to reach a general agreement between the state, employers and employees for the development, utilisation and full employment of the country's human resources.
We also aim to provide personalised support, training or employment for more than 6 months.
No long-term unemployed person without a corresponding support for more than 12 months.
In particular, anyone unemployed for more than 6 months will be automatically enrolled in a special employment guarantee scheme.
On a personalised basis, he will be assisted by a specially trained adviser from the OAED, who will advise and support him in the following choices:
Subsidized work.
Employment in voluntary activities organised by each municipality.
Attend a re-education or training programme.
This effort is accompanied by a matrix of measures and incentives for businesses to increase the employment of young people and vulnerable groups, such as mothers with young children or unemployed citizens over 55 years old.
The combination of measures to be taken concerns:
Tax exemptions.
Employment subsidy.
Reduction or exemption from paying social security contributions.
We are opening a broader debate with the social partners on the reforms needed to address the fragmentation of the Greek labour market, between the main market based on open-ended contracts, with the protection they offer, and the parallel labour markets that start from fixed-term contracts, extend to sectors where dependent labour is treated as a mere commodity and reach to undeclared work with little or no social security.
This dialogue will also address possible reforms that may broaden the scope of options in terms of working and business hours, part-time work and the development of temporary employment agencies.
They must also promote the conversion of undeclared work into regular work.
The aim is to achieve a satisfactory combination of flexibility and security for all employees and businesses.
Special emphasis, with new perspectives, should be given to the establishment of a genuine lifelong learning system by introducing the following reforms:
Subsidizing educational loans for young, unemployed, inactive people.
Subsidies to businesses for staff training.
Training of business executives at universities and universities of applied sciences with public subsidies through programmatic contracts.
Establishment of sectoral or local vocational training funds by enterprises and other economic operators, co-financed by the state.
Finally, it is also necessary to examine in a more systematic way the participation of foreign migrants in increasing the country's employment and prosperity.
Despite individual problems, we have benefited as an economy and society in many ways from the migration of recent years.
The accelerated ageing of the population and its impact on economic growth and the sustainability of social security systems raise the issue of a better link between migration and the needs of the economy in Greece, as in all European countries.
At the same time, increased migration flows make it urgent to ensure the conditions for effective integration of migrants into the economy and society.
In this context, given the enlargement of the European Union, we consider it useful from now on to consider, as do other Member States, the gradual application of the principle of free movement of workers to the ten new Member States.
The success of this programme for the development, utilisation and full employment of the country's human resources will depend on the mobilisation of Greek society, the allocation of all the necessary national resources and ensuring their effective management by the administration and stakeholders.
To this end they are necessary:
A gradual increase in public spending on education, training and other active employment policies from 3.5% to 5.0% of Gross Domestic Product by 2008.
The redesign of economic incentives to increase private investment in human capital as well.
For PASOK, the full employment strategy is not seen as just another area for initiatives and interventions alongside several others.
The full employment strategy is the cornerstone of the wider gamble on Europe's competitiveness and prosperity.
In other words, increased competitiveness can only be won if it is based on the most valuable resource of our society, namely the citizens.
That is why we have sought a harmonious reconciliation and correspondence between purely "economic" policies and employment policies.
The framework within which the economic, labour and social objectives are brought together is the Convergence Charter.
Increase employment and boost incomes Reduce the unemployment rate to 6% and the female unemployment rate to 8%.
A labour market integration contract with targeted policies to reduce unemployment among young people, the long-term unemployed, the
elderly, women,
(expansion of the network of childcare centres and the granting of vouchers for the use of their services, subsidised contributions for unemployed mothers of two or more children, expansion of the part-time employment offer).
Establish a network of Employment Promotion Centres for personalised support for the unemployed, part-time work in the social sector, removing disincentives to develop a part-time market, reviewing restrictions on shop opening hours, improved health and safety, doubling spending on active employment policies and reducing non-wage labour costs.
Opportunities for all for greater social cohesion
The key objective is to reduce precariousness to the EU average by 2008.
Broadening and deepening the solidarity network, i.e. a system of 'targeted policies' that concentrate on those sections of the population with real needs instead of general benefits of dubious effect.
This includes increases for low pensioners, programmes for people with disabilities, fighting exclusion through the "Solidarity Network".
These actions will be financed by increasing social protection spending to 30% of GDP by 2008.
Emphasis on supporting the family through social protection and tax arrangements.
Modernisation of the pension system through the implementation of the arrangements of the recent pension reform, with the dual objectives of adequacy and sustainability of pensions.
Increased public spending on health care from 2.7% of GDP to 4% of GDP, including an increase in health professionals in hospitals, improved primary care and coverage of the whole population by the family doctor system.
3. Education and transition to the knowledge society.
Increase of public expenditure on education as a percentage of GDP to 5% by 2008, creation of the school of free choice, development of lifelong learning and education opportunities for all (by 2008 network of Second Chance Schools in every prefecture, Lifelong Learning Institutes in Universities), reception classes, tutorial classes, adult education centres.
Social security is the backbone of the social protection system, with pensions absorbing the lion's share of social protection expenditure.
Pensions are an important part not only of the income of the elderly but also indirectly finance the budget of each family.
But in recent years, instead of being a support for the family, the pension system has been a permanent source of insecurity and suffering:
Low pensions for the majority of pensioners have fuelled an acute risk of marginalisation for older low-pensioners especially if they live alone.
The deficits of the funds left the question of "where the money will come from" unanswered.
The financial difficulties of the funds led to poor quality services.
The fragmentation of funds, arrangements and pension conditions resulted in a highly unequal system.
Social security, instead of counteracting social injustices, in some cases it intensified them.
The insurance situation, where the funds were struggling to meet even their current obligations, left the question of how to meet the challenges of an ageing population completely unanswered.
This crucial uncertainty affected the majority of insured persons who were working, since their contributions were accumulating without any guarantee of payment when due.
This insecurity acted like a cancer on social cohesion, poisoning the relationship, especially of young workers, with social solidarity, since they paid with little expectation of return.
The prolongation of the uncertainty and uncertainty about the future of the most important part of the workers' gains poisoned both relations and the possibility of more general agreements with the social partners.
For these reasons, PASOK, in the 2000 elections, was the only one of the political parties to declare clearly that it would "untie the Gordian knot of the social security system".
Today, four years later, we are proud to have done exactly what we said we would do:
The great pending social security issue is no more.
Law 3029/2002, which secured the consensus of the social partners, has unlocked developments so that the insurance system can once again play an active role in development.
The road to a new recognition of the insurance system is open.
The insurance system can once again claim the trust of the insured and pensioners.
This investment in regaining policyholders' confidence was based on a coherent strategy for pensions.
This strategy aimed at correcting pre-existing structural deficiencies and prepares the system for the challenges that will affect the retirement of today's workers.
Today, the strategy for the pension system is to build confidence in the system and in the future of pensions.
This policy was crowned by Law 3029/2002 and is made possible by ten initiatives:
By emphasising the adequacy of pensions both in preventing poverty in old age and by protecting the market value of pensions.
These actions are also accompanied by upgrading services for the elderly, such as the Help at Home programme.
By promoting equality and social justice by reducing fragmentation and eliminating discrimination against new workers (insured after 1-1-1993).
By explicitly guaranteeing the financial autonomy of IKA until 2030.
This is achieved by creating a reserve that aims to use IKA's greater financial comfort in the current decade to guarantee pensions after 2015.
By establishing stability in the institutional framework by taking a clear position on the major choices, but at the same time leaving room for flexibility on individual issues.
By facilitating the use of new schemes that bring credibility and flexibility to the system, such as occupational pensions.
By separating supplementary pensions from main pensions, through the creation of separate supplementary funds, which will tend in the long run to be differentiated from the main insurance.
With the satisfactory balancing of the basic principles of the insurance reform through the process of social dialogue, by the trade unions of workers and employers.
By transforming the lump-sum benefit funds into n.p.i.d.
By creating the conditions for developing a dialogue with employees and employers on the voluntary coupling of supplementary funds with occupational funds.
Strengthening the National Actuarial Authority as a reliable and commonly accepted mechanism, which will give its opinion, through the annual report and special tailor-made audits, on the financial situation and sustainability of all Social Security institutions (Main Funds - Provident Funds - Occupational Funds).
By setting, following a national social agreement, measurable targets to reduce tax evasion, provided that the extra resources are channelled to reduce social security contributions and to strengthen lower pensions.
The dialogue with workers on the voluntary extension of active professional and working life.
The success of pension policy has three conditions:
The acceleration of the rapid path of real convergence with the EU.
The implementation of the strategy to boost employment, especially in the key area of female employment.
Accelerating the operational modernisation and improving the services of the insurance system.
In this context, two moves are of particular importance:
First, the establishment of the National Actuarial Authority for the supervision of funds, the early detection of insurance problems, the promotion of transparency.
Secondly, the operational modernization that is underway at IKA, gives the opportunity to boost revenues by reducing tax evasion and improving the service to the citizen by all kinds of services of the Fund.
These three parallel actions activate the development, labour and social reserves and thus support the insurance policy itself.
Building confidence will allow the system to play its role again in a virtuous circle between social progress and economic growth.
Participation in such an insurance system, thanks to the expectation of an adequate pension, creates the conditions of sustainability that allow the expectations to be fulfilled.
The success of N3029/2002 in its main objective, the release of developments, is shown by a series of developments in the last year:
The operation of the National Actuarial Authority with technocratic integrity will provide a body of rational assessment and early warning of any corrections.
The legislative framework for the operation of occupational pensions is progressing.
The institutions for the realisation of the funds' assets are in place.
The centrifugal fragmentation tendencies that existed in the past have been replaced by a new dynamic where IKA plays the role of the centre of gravity of the system.
A number of injustices and inefficiencies that existed are being corrected: insurance for divorcees, issues of succession insurance and free movement of workers.
Insuring foreigners introduces a new healthy source of funding into the system and reduces the grey economy.
The experience of a consensual resolution of perhaps the biggest issue between the social partners opens up new avenues for creative exchanges and engagement on vital labour market issues.
Any abandonment of the national strategy for real convergence, revision of the budgetary targets or failure in the employment targets would automatically mean a derailment of the pensions strategy.
Whatever is not saved through synergy with employment will have to be sought from within the insurance system, thus reopening the issues of financing the system that Law 3029/2002 has addressed.
The result for social security, but also for Greek society as a whole, will be tragic.
The central issue in the new recognition of the welfare state and the common thread in all actions is the quality of intervention - Quality in Social Policy.
More specifically, this is broken down into four priority issues:
Staff intervention to assess and prioritise problems.
The Welfare Charter is a tool for social policy formulation at the executive level.
Through the Map, local needs are better identified and targeted and geographical inequalities are tackled.
The obvious need for a permanent and structured dialogue with civil society in view of the contribution of its forces to social inclusion requires institutional initiatives.
In this context, the National Committee for Social Protection has been established, which mobilises, in addition to public bodies, the social partners and Non-Governmental Organisations.
Decentralisation of actions so that decisions are taken as close as possible to the source of the problem and individualised measures are taken that are able to exploit the synergy between actors and actions.
There has already been a significant transfer of competences at the level of municipalities, which is continuing, while their capacity to carry out social policy and provide basic social services is gradually being strengthened.
Scope and quality of services.
Already the Help at Home network is setting standards of quality intervention, while the major infrastructure programme in transport, communications and health is underway.
The last point - quality services that set the standards and do not follow the private sector - is the challenge for the decade ahead.
Improving both access and the quality of services requires adjustments to the administrative network through which both targeted and general policies are formulated and implemented.
The Social Services Network aims to address the fragmentation of social services at the level of use - primarily in local government.
The network responds to the 'horizontal' need to organise structures and procedures for the design and delivery of social services to ensure the following objectives:
Comprehensiveness in the promotion of the response to integration problems.
Strengthening complementarity in the provision of services.
Strengthening decentralisation in the delivery of services.
Rationalising the situation at the level of locally provided services.
Improving the quality of information and service to recipients.
The network aims to provide personalised advice and guidance to people at risk of exclusion, so that appropriate assistance is provided in a timely and effective manner, making use of all available measures and infrastructures.
The aim is to improve the solidarity and support network, with a focus on supporting families and working mothers, as well as people at risk of poverty and social exclusion.
It is a conscious political choice and direction to strengthen a system of "targeted benefits" that focus on the segments of the population with real needs in place of general social benefits of dubious effect:
support for low pensioners.
Our policies to date have guaranteed the continuation of substantial support for low pensioners, within the framework of fiscal stability.
EKAS, OGA pensions will continue to face their financial problems.
Annual pension increases consistently above inflation.
Increase minimum pensions by 5% per year.
The ESSP from 140 today will be set at 200 in 2008 with a positive adjustment of the thresholds for beneficiaries.
The minimum OGA pension from 200 today to 300 at the end of the next four years.
The minimum IKA pension plus EKAS will rise from 552 today to 700 at the end of the next four years.
Supporting the family.
The family today is constantly challenged by changes in social norms and conditions of production.
Supporting the working mother and the family is a priority.
That is why we are committed to specific policies and measures to support the family and reconcile work and private life:
Establishment of freedom of choice of nursery (voucher system), strict compliance with standards in nurseries, extension of rights (covering not only workers but also the unemployed).
Our goal is that by the end of the 4 years every woman who wants to work will be able to find a place for her children in quality-guaranteed daycare centres.
New innovative 'Care at Home' type programmes, especially for infants, with the participation of local authorities and civil society.
Generalisation of the institution of all-day schools and kindergartens.
Training and retraining programmes for women who want to re-enter the labour market.
Facilitating mothers' work by having more flexible working hours that are compatible with their preferences and needs.
Tackling poverty and social exclusion.
The problem of poverty in Greece has a different texture and extent than in Europe.
The high rate of home ownership in our country, family solidarity, the high percentage of small and individual businesses diversify the situation and alter the individual experience of economic hardship.
Nevertheless, and taking into account the downward trends since 1996, this situation is not satisfactory.
We aim to reduce the percentage of people at risk of social exclusion, after social transfers, to the EU average by 2008:
we are working with municipalities to create local social intervention cores - a Social Solidarity Network funded with around €900 million per year by 2008.
We are launching with the new National Action Plan for Social Inclusion, covering the period 2003-05 targeted actions to prevent social exclusion problems: training programmes,
programmes for vulnerable groups such as people with disabilities (special budget of 110 million for the period 2004-8), returnees, migrants, gypsies, etc,
poor households of permanent residents in mountainous and disadvantaged areas,
long-term unemployed aged 45-65,
single-parent families with minor children,
integration programmes for immigrants and intercultural education.
Implement the institution of "legal aid" for low-income citizens.
In 20 years of operation, the NHS has won the recognition of the citizen but has not gained his full trust.
His contribution was very great.
It gave free and equal care to all Greeks, created the 200 non-urban Health Centres, established many new hospitals, renovated the rest (15 new regional hospitals in the last 3 years, 75% development of new infrastructure in the 94-04 decade) and strengthened human resources (20,000 recruitments, of which 1/2 of them nursing staff in the 94-04 decade).
Thus, today Greeks have one of the best health levels in the world (8th place in average life expectancy), while the World Health Organization has ranked the Greek health system 14th in the world (out of 198 countries).
And Greeks say in opinion surveys that they trust public hospitals more for serious health problems.
However, despite these important achievements, the public health system in Greece is often devalued, recording low satisfaction rates, due to the existence of the following problems:
a) Lack of organised Primary Health Care (mainly in urban centres) and Prevention - Health Promotion programmes.
b) Lack of satisfactory hotel infrastructure and services in several hospitals.
c) Severe shortages of non-medical staff in hospitals (mainly nursing staff).
d) Underfunding of the system (low public expenditure, long delays in fund arrears, undercosting of services provided) and high private health expenditure (with phenomena of shadow economy).
e) inadequate administration (centralisation, bureaucracy, lack of computerisation and modern management).
To address these problems, the health system reform was designed 3 years ago which, apart from new hospitals, the renovation of many and the recruitment of 5,000 nursing staff, led to:
The creation of the 17 Regional Health and Welfare Systems (RHS) and the appointment of managers-managers in the hospitals.
The passing of the law on health inspectors.
The passing of the law on hospital procurement.
. On the passing of the Public Health Act.
The adoption of two laws to improve the functioning of the NHS and the better implementation of Law 2889/2001.
The submission of the draft law on Primary Health Care.
On the tabling of the medical education bill.
On the basis of this rich legislative work, a modern institutional framework is being formed, which provides the possibility of creating a new, modern, human-centred health service.
To complete this effort within the next four years, important initiatives will be taken in the formulation and implementation of our national health policy.
Our policy focuses on both general and specific objectives:
Transforming the health system into a people-centred system instead of the hospital-centred system it is today.
QUALITY in services and RESPECT for the patient's requests and rights.
Tackling social and geographical inequalities in health indicators and access to health services.
Coordination of all policies that have a direct or indirect impact on health (such as employment, education, environment, social protection and welfare policies).
A specific approach to health for the elderly and special population groups.
Formulation of new rules for the operation of the private sector (operating standards, uniform pricing, licensing based on the criteria of the Health Charter) and its interconnection with the public sector.
Fully integrate psychiatric care into the NHS and complete the decentralisation process.
Establishment of a National Institute of Health with Centres: Research, Education, Health Services, Epidemiology, Clinical Excellence, Biomedical Technology, etc.
Operation of the already established National Health Quality Certification Agency (in conjunction with the provisions of the draft law on PHC).
Electronic medical records and electronic health card for each insured person (provided for in the submitted law on Primary Health Care).
To complete this effort within the next 4 years, major initiatives will be taken in the following areas:
Development of Prevention-Prevention-Health Education.
Organisation of the Primary Health Care System.
Modernisation of hospital care.
Strengthening administrative decentralisation and social control.
Reorganisation of funding.
Strengthening human resources.
Creation of a national Health Promotion and Education Agency.
National Primary Prevention Programmes (Diet, Smoking, Drugs, Physical Activity, etc.).
National Secondary Prevention Programmes (Cancer screening for Cancer, Cardiovascular, etc.).
Health Promotion - Health Education Programme in the workplace and in specific groups of the population.
Family doctor (implementation of the institution in the structures of the National Health Service and Social Security, as well as in doctors contracted with the funds). The possibility for municipalities to set up Urban Health Centres and other primary health and welfare services through a new institutional arrangement.
Organisation of Regional Primary Health Care Networks with the participation of urban and regional health centres, family doctors and other primary health care services contracted with the funds (National Health Service, Social Security, Municipalities, Private), under the supervision and coordination of the PES.
Establishment of a minimum uniform package of free medical and insurance benefits in all funds.
Creation of a single primary HEALTH - PRINCIPLE area under the supervision and coordination of the PES.
Establishment in all hospitals of home care, day and short-stay units.
Development of Intensive Care Units (ICUs) and Intensive Care Units (ICUs), Trauma Centres, Emergency Departments (EDs) and other specialised hospital units.
Computerisation of all hospitals and implementation of modern accounting standards.
Modernising hospital equipment with new, flexible forms of financing.
All hospitals with emergency departments are on call every day.
Restructuring of units (clinics and laboratories) at national and regional level based on the Health Charter under development.
Inclusion of IKA hospitals in the E.S.Y. and functional interconnection with the P.S.Y.P. of all non-private for-profit nursing institutions (public, university, military).
Creation of a new University Hospital in Athens to replace the old hospitals located in the city centre (Laiko, Hippokratio, Alexandra, Aretaiio, Aegineteio).
Creation of new special hospitals (paediatric, oncological, etc.).
Creation of new post-hospital care units (decontamination, chronic patients).
Transfer of administrative responsibilities from PES to hospitals.
Strengthening administrative decentralisation and social control
Strengthening the institution of Regional Health and Welfare Systems (RHS) with the transfer of resources and responsibilities from the Ministry of Health and Welfare.
Reducing the number of PES in line with the new administrative regions that will be created.
Organic interconnection of the PES with the new administrative regions.
Creation of Sectors (with reference population) in each PES.
Transfer of the exercise of supervision of the private health sector from the Prefectural Government to the P.S.H.I.P.
The management of financial resources by the PSCs on the basis of global budgets based on the health needs of the population of each region.
Establishment of Social Control Committees in each health region with the participation of representatives of the Ministry of Health, workers, user-patient associations and non-governmental organizations.
Activation of the Patients' Rights Charter for immediate, dignified and high quality care and treatment, with the establishment of a central service for implementation - control - sanctions in each P.S.Y.I.P.
Rationalisation of the pricing of the services offered.
Balanced hospital budgets and the gradual introduction of global budgets based on diagnostic categories (DRGs).
Expansion of the institution of evening clinics in the laboratory and surgical sector, mainly for day surgeries.
Charges for additional operations in the health insurance funds with the social security funds as debtors.
Conclusion of contracts with private insurance providers.
Establishing an extensive network of supplementary social security to cover additional benefits.
Real estate development.
Immediate advertisement of non-medical positions in the National Health Service (10,000 nursing staff positions) for the next 4 years.
Acceleration of recruitment in the NHS, especially of non-medical staff, through special arrangements for separate competitions per field, under the supervision of the ASEP.
Establishment of a special pay scale for non-medical professions in the NHS (in addition to the basic salary, a system of additional remuneration depending on the specificity of each professional category).
Control the production of doctors and upgrade postgraduate training.
Adjustment of the salaries of doctors in the National Health Service according to their speciality and abolition of fictitious on-call duties.
Establish financial and other incentives depending on the achievement of measurable quality objectives for all departments and for all employees of the H.S.Y.
Linking nursing schools with hospitals.
New university nursing school outside Athens.
New educational directions in HEI, TEI, (e.g. health services management, biomedical technology, medical informatics, etc.).
Development of volunteerism in health (project contracts with the units of the National Health Service for social and humanitarian work, financial and insurance incentives for the recruitment of unemployed people from voluntary organisations and NGOs for the provision of services in the health sector).
The expected benefits from the implementation of the proposed measures are summarized in two main categories:
a) The more effective treatment of illness and the further improvement of the health level of the Greek population.
b) The satisfaction of users-patients in terms of the immediate, humane, dignified and high quality coverage of their health needs (elimination of rants, crowding, waiting).
More specifically, by setting specific General and Specific Objectives within the framework of the National Health Policy and with the Prevention - Health Promotion Programmes, a significant reduction in preventable morbidity and mortality can be achieved, especially with regard to cardiovascular diseases and cancers, which are responsible for 75% of deaths in our country.
With the organization of the Primary Health Care System, there will be a significant decongestion of the central hospitals, which will facilitate better patient service, especially during critical days of on-call duty.
Better service will be achieved both through the proposed measures to modernise hospitals and by significantly strengthening their staff.
The strengthening of decentralization with the further empowerment of the P.S.H.I.P., will make possible the immediate and coordinated implementation of these necessary measures, with the participation and control of social forces, in order to meet the health needs of the population of each region in the best possible way.
The basic principles underlying our political approach to the environment and sustainable development treat the economy, the welfare state and environmental protection equally.
Policies for integrated environmental protection and management are deeply progressive.
They are policies of the left, of responsibility.
They expand society's access to environmental resources, which are a public good, while at the same time ensuring their conservation and strengthening the conditions for their equitable use by all.
Environmental protection requires, in addition to the creation of infrastructure projects, the awareness of citizens and the formation of an attitude of social responsibility, as well as the general mobilisation of society and its institutions.
We have worked in this direction, we have worked to strengthen environmental information, to disseminate environmental information and to increase the possibility of free access to it for citizens, we have cooperated with Environmental NGOs, we have worked together with local authorities to address environmental problems that are their responsibility.
We believe that an integrated policy for environmental protection and sustainable development is shaping the economy, providing new business opportunities and creating new employment opportunities.
In Greece in particular, these opportunities are highlighted in relation to improving environmental performance in the energy, industry, agriculture and tourism sectors, waste management, integrated water protection and management, the creation of new institutions and mechanisms for environmental protection and the sustainable development of cities and settlements.
In our understanding, spatial planning is based on the principles of sustainable development.
Greece's position in the new European reality as a member of the European Union and the Eurozone underlines the need for spatial support for an outward-looking geopolitical and geo-economic strategy, particularly oriented towards the countries of the Balkan Peninsula, the Black Sea and the Mediterranean as zones of economic cooperation, security and political stability.
The objectives of this strategy are the removal of the country's regionalism in relation to the European Union, its emergence as the main Balkan gateway to the Mediterranean, its integration into international combined transport corridors, and the exploitation of its geographical position as a hub for maritime and air routes and energy networks.
This strategy is promoted by continuing development cooperation with neighbouring countries, complementing national and regional economies, continuing the transport, energy and telecommunications network policy by promoting major transnational infrastructure projects and integrating environmental requirements into sectoral policies.
The construction of major projects (PATHE, Egnatia, natural gas, railways, the Burgas-Alexandroupolis pipeline, other energy networks) connected to the trans-European networks, make the country a gateway to Asia and an important transport hub.
The country's "regionalism" in relation to the economic area of the European Union is promoted through the exploitation of the central axis (Patras, Athens, Thessaloniki) and its extensions, the northern axis of the Egnatia (Alexandroupolis, Thessaloniki, Igoumenitsa) and the vertical axes connecting it to the pan-European axes, the western axis of the Ionian Road, the northern development axis of Crete and the sea routes connecting key development poles and the eastern axis (Alexandroupolis, Aegean Islands-Rhodes).
The strategy that we as a Government are pursuing understands the relationship between the economy, society and the environment as a dynamic relationship of interdependence and complementarity.
Comprehensive and effective environmental protection cannot be achieved without adequate financial resources, which are generated and increased by improving the performance of the economy.
At the same time, the sustainable and ecological use of resources and the protection and enhancement of environmental resources ensure the sustainability of development.
In this direction, better conditions are created through the strengthening of the welfare state, the improvement of social infrastructure and the development of a framework of social solidarity.
Improving the quality of the environment and preserving its ecological functions are also key elements in protecting public health and improving the quality of life of citizens.
The principle of integrating the environmental dimension into sectoral policies, particularly in spatial planning, transport, energy, industry, agriculture and tourism, is the most important aspect of our sustainable development strategy.
At the national level, our constant aim during this period has been to create better conditions for the sustainable operation of our cities and to promote sustainable rural development.
In relation to our country's international environmental obligations, particular importance was attached to addressing climate change and the conservation of biodiversity.
The main areas of our policy in the four years we have been in office are:
the rational management of solid waste with the objectives of protecting public health and the environment and limiting the consumption of raw materials and natural resources.
Integrated environmental protection and water management.
The protection, preservation and enhancement of the natural environment in combination with integrated rural development.
Tackling air pollution to protect health and improve the quality of life in cities.
Formulating policy and promoting measures and actions to address climate change.
The organisation of space and the improvement of the image of cities, settlements and the countryside.
Already since 1994 we have sought and succeeded, by cooperating with and supporting those bodies of the local authorities that have acted with a sense of responsibility towards this responsibility, to proceed with the creation of infrastructure for waste management.
43 modern landfills have been built and are in operation, serving 55% of the population, of which 35 are operational.
At the same time, steps have been taken to promote the recovery and recycling of materials, with the implementation of source separation programmes and the construction and operation of 2 Recycling Centres and 1 Mechanical Screening Plant with production of soil improver.
At the same time, a significant reduction in uncontrolled landfills has been achieved, from 6,500 in 1997 to 1,445 today.
At the same time, we have secured the necessary resources for the implementation of these projects, aiming at the operation of modern and environmentally and hygienically safe landfills.
Waste transfer stations, sorting centres for recyclable materials and the complete elimination of uncontrolled landfills by 2008.
In this context, we attached particular importance to tackling the acute problem in Attica and did not hesitate to take initiatives and responsibilities where other, institutionally responsible bodies had shown timidity by prolonging an unacceptable situation, a threat to the environment and public health and an insult to our culture.
At the same time, with the aim of integrated ecological management of solid waste, we have proceeded with important regulations at institutional level in order to complete our legislation and to create the necessary alternative management systems for the organisation and implementation of the recovery and recycling of packaging materials (paper, glass, plastics, aluminium), as well as for the management of special categories of waste (electronic and electrical waste, end-of-life cars, used minerals, waste electrical and electronic equipment, waste electrical and electronic equipment, waste electrical and electronic equipment, waste electrical and electronic equipment, waste electrical and electronic equipment, waste electrical and electronic equipment, end-of-life cars, used minerals and waste electrical and electronic equipment).
In cooperation with the Local Authorities, we have ensured the strengthening and improvement of the water supply infrastructure in order to ensure sufficient and good quality drinking water for most of the cities and settlements of our country.
Major water-related infrastructure projects such as dams, reservoirs, aquifer recharge have been promoted across the country, completed, under construction or under study, such as the restoration of Lake Karla, water supply of Thessaloniki from the Aliakmonas, water supply of Heraklion and Agios Nikolaos from the Aposelemi dam, water supply of Rhodes from the Gadouras dam, water supply of Patras from the Piraeus and Parapeiros rivers, water supply of Corfu and Paxos, etc.ά.
At the same time, important flood protection projects were promoted, such as the settlement of the Sarandapotamos and Agios Georgios torrents in the Thriasio Field, etc.
We have promoted a system of monitoring and control of groundwater, surface water and bathing water, which has resulted in our country having the most blue flags in Europe.
The systematic monitoring of water quality (surface and coastal) continued and the network was strengthened so that the competent bodies have the necessary data to formulate their interventions and citizens have the necessary information.
Important steps have been taken to protect water from pollution. Today, 290 modern urban waste water treatment plants are in operation, compared to only 49 in 1993.
Given that the completion of the Psyttaleia facilities (covering Athens and where primary treatment is already fully operational with a direct impact on the significant improvement in the quality of the marine environment in the Saronic Gulf) is proceeding rapidly, the population served by the operating facilities exceeds 75% and includes all residents of cities with a population of more than 50,000 inhabitants.
At the same time, we formulated a comprehensive plan to gradually cover the needs of smaller urban centres, taking into account population and environmental data.
We have completed the mapping and ecological assessment of the natural environment while at the same time we have proceeded with the formulation of an integrated framework for its protection, conservation and enhancement.
In this context, 27 Management Bodies have already been established covering the most important areas from an ecological point of view, and a specific protection and management regime has been established for each of them.
We have already launched the staffing of the agencies and secured the resources for their initial operation.
Tackling air pollution has been one of the main points of our environmental policy.
We believe that protecting the air environment is one of the key issues for protecting public health and improving the quality of life in cities.
During this four-year period, there have been many important measures and interventions to reduce air pollution.
Some features are the introduction of natural gas buses in Athens, the improvement of fuel quality and the intensification of fuel quality controls, the promotion of the use of natural gas in industry and the modernization of the institutional framework for the operation of industry in Attica, the introduction of Best Available Techniques, etc.
We improved the Unified Air Pollution Monitoring Network (EDPRAP), covering the whole Attica Basin and other major cities and including the monitoring of more pollutants (particulate matter, benzene).
At the same time, the formulation of air pollution response plans is progressing in 10 cities of the country (Athens, Thessaloniki, Patras, Heraklion, Volos, Larissa, Kavala, Ioannina, Mytilene and Chania).
Two new Metro lines have been created in Athens and their extension is already proceeding rapidly, the construction of the tramway is being completed, bus lanes have increased significantly, while many peripheral roads have been constructed and are in operation (Attiki Odos, Ymittos Regional Road, Patras Bypass, etc.).
The upgrading of the public transport system increases the possibilities of easy and equitable mobility for citizens, creating the conditions for the reduction of air pollution per commuter and the ring roads or bypass roads of the urban fabric, allow traffic congestion in significant parts of urban centres, with a positive effect on the emission of air pollutants.
We believe that tackling global environmental problems requires the cooperation of all the countries of the world.
Particularly on the issue of climate change, a comprehensive view of development is necessary so that there is a fair distribution of the burden in the global effort to stabilise greenhouse gas emissions, respecting the rights of the least developed and developing countries.
So we proceeded to the ratification of the Kyoto Protocol, which sets specific legally binding quantitative targets for the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, which apply to developed countries and in particular to our country, in the context of the overall objective of the European Union.
We have formulated the 2nd National Greenhouse Gas Emission Reduction Programme covering the period until 2010, which has been ratified by an Act of the Council of Ministers.
The main actions of the programme concern the promotion of Renewable Energy Sources (RES) and natural gas, as well as energy saving and the rational use of energy in buildings.
We promoted the development of infrastructure for the use of natural gas in industrial plants.
In connection with the implementation of the institutional framework for integrated pollution control and prevention, we have proceeded with the organisation of an information management system necessary for the evaluation of the environmental performance of the industrial sector.
We have modernised the institutional framework for environmental impact assessment and nuisance assessment and we are working systematically with industry representatives to formulate informed national positions on best available techniques agreed at European level to promote cleaner production.
We have also set up, through the Competitiveness Operational Programme, programmes for the financial support of industries for the improvement of their environmental infrastructure, the implementation of environmental management systems, the acquisition of eco-labels on their products, as well as for the creation of businesses in the field of waste treatment and recovery which are already in operation.
Specifically for Attica, we proceeded with the modernisation of the institutional framework for the environmental performance of the industry, institutionalising the implementation of environmental management systems and the use of best available clean production techniques in all medium and high pollution units.
In the direction of integrating the environmental dimension in the transport sector, important projects include: the creation and operation of the Metro, the construction of the Tramway and the increase of bus routes in Athens and the construction of ring roads and bypasses of urban centres (as for example in Athens and Patras).
They also advanced the modernisation and upgrading of the rail network, as rail is the most environmentally friendly means of long-distance transport as it involves significantly less pollution per passenger or goods transported.
Very important steps have been taken in relation to spatial planning, which is an important tool for effective environmental protection and sustainable development.
For the first time in Greece, the National Spatial Planning Framework, the Special Spatial Plan for the Coastal Area and the Regional Plans for the 12 Regions of the country were established and institutionalised.
In Attica, the Regulatory Plan for the Basin is in force.
Our policy is based on the principle that, in the context of sustainable democratic development, the state must ensure that urban planning conditions are established that allow for the improvement of housing conditions and the quality of life of citizens in general, in combination with the protection of environmental resources.
There has been a significant increase in public resources directed towards the improvement and regeneration of the residential area.
We have simplified procedures, decentralised responsibilities and significantly reduced the time needed to approve planning studies.
We are well aware that some steps should have been taken earlier, but we believe that we have now firmly established the basis for organising the building of the area in a way that combines the satisfaction of social needs, citizens' rights and the protection of the natural environment.
In addition to the strengthening of the environmental quality monitoring networks (air, water), there have been other important interventions, such as the creation of the Corps of Environmental Auditors, which will allow the effective monitoring of the compliance with environmental conditions and, more generally, the environmental performance of industries and other activities, contributing to the rationalisation and improvement of the effectiveness of the whole system of environmental monitoring and protection.
At the same time, we proceeded with the modernization of the institutional framework for Environmental Impact Studies, with the ultimate aim of making the whole process work more effectively for investors and for the benefit of environmental protection.
At the same time, we proceeded with the creation of the National Centre for Environment and Sustainable Development (EKPAA), with the main objective of managing environmental information and informing competent bodies and citizens, and we promoted the development of tools for the collection and management of environmental information, such as the National Environmental Information Network, the mapping of habitats, the creation of a database on pollutant emissions and the environmental performance of the country's main industries in general, etc.
This information is useful for policy-making by the competent authorities, for use by the scientific community in studies and research, and for informing citizens.
By promoting policies for environmental protection and sustainable development in general, new employment opportunities are created, and in a sector of high social value and public interest.
Significant new fields of scientific activity are emerging in research, study and business for Higher Education Institutions, Research Centres and the private sector, in areas such as Renewable Energy Sources and energy saving, waste management, water protection and management, protection and enhancement of the natural environment, alternative forms of tourism, development of environmentally friendly agricultural practices, management of environmental information, improvements in the quality of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of natural resources.
At the same time, the know-how developed can be used in the context of an organized political cooperation for environmental protection and sustainable development in the Balkans, the Eastern Mediterranean and the Black Sea, but also more generally through relevant international cooperation actions that we have already started and will promote in the coming four years.
New jobs are also being created in the wider public sector in the protection and management of the natural environment (e.g. Management Agencies and Ecotourism), the organisation and management of environmental information (e.g. National Centre for Environment and Sustainable Development), environmental audits (Corps of Environmental Auditors), water management (Integrated Protection and Management Services), etc.
During the Greek Presidency, several important environmental issues were successfully promoted at European and international level.
The main ones are:
Reaching political agreement on the Environmental Liability Directive on the prevention and remedying of environmental damage in the context of the application of the polluter pays principle.
Promoting at European and international level the procedures for the implementation of the Kyoto Protocol on the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions.
Promote the issue of forest protection and monitoring.
Promote arrangements to enable citizens to participate in the preparation of environmental plans and programmes.
Following the recent adoption, for the first time in our country, of a comprehensive, scientifically documented and socially acceptable spatial planning, our commitments for the next four years relate to the completion of the country's Spatial Reconstruction, which provides for:
Systematic monitoring of the implementation of the National Spatial Framework, the Special Spatial Plans (coastal and mountainous areas) and the 12 Regional Frameworks and the promotion of corrective actions after the first years of their implementation.
Promote new General Urban Plans or Master Plans in the entire area of at least 500 municipalities by 2008, with emphasis on those where there are conflicts of use, so that in most of the country there are land use plans and a mechanism to monitor them at the end of the new four-year period.
In 100 municipalities land use will be completed in 2004 and in another 100 in 2005.
Completion in all the Prefectures of the country of plans for Integrated Development Areas for Productive Activities, so that in the first year of the new four-year period, areas suitable for residential, tourist or industrial development will have been designated throughout the country.
Completion of the National Cadastral Survey in the main urban centres of the country, as well as in the other areas currently under construction, by 2008. Completion in the whole country by 2013.
Resolution of outstanding property ownership issues in favour of the citizen, without legal adventures.
Coverage of sectoral policies (for Tourism, Energy, Transport, Education, etc.) from a national spatial planning point of view.
Priority in the spatial and urban planning of productive activities in the regions along the main development axes.
Further promotion of the organisation of productive and technological activities (Industrial - Technological Parks), collective organisation of modern exhibition spaces for the promotion of products and introduction of new systems of marketing and distribution of products (Commercial & Trade Parks etc.) or of wider services of the tertiary sector (such as Business Parks, Service Parks, Leisure and Leisure - Tourism Parks, Management Parks etc.).
Delimitation, promotion and integrated management of green and blue zones, i.e. areas with environmental and cultural resources of particular importance (Green Zones: National parks, protected areas, Mediterranean landscapes, urban green areas, environmental - ecological parks. Blue zones: Coasts, islands, rivers, lakes, cultural landscapes, etc.).
The emergence of regeneration policy as a primary tool of the new urban policy.
Particular attention will be paid to areas with pockets of deteriorated building stock and difficulties in renewal.
Introduction of modern methods and procedures for the continuous financing of these programmes.
Reduction of the time required for urban planning and its implementation with the use of modern technologies (General Urban Plans in 18 months, Urban Studies in 3 years, Geographical Information Systems, satellite imagery etc.).
Promoting, in cooperation with the local authorities, measures and policies to improve the functionality and aesthetic upgrading of cities.
Measures and policies to create a sustainable urban environment and improve the friendliness of urban space by creating free and barrier-free pedestrian walkways, facilitating the movement of pedestrians and people with disabilities, increasing urban and peri-urban green spaces and sports and recreation areas, reducing noise pollution, aesthetic standardisation of leisure shops and generally improving daily life in the city.
Raising public awareness and public administration about the "image of the city", the so-called "urban landscape" (architectural interventions, billboards, antennae, air conditioners, etc.).
Creation of an effective mechanism for the prevention and/or immediate suppression of arbitrary building.
Immediate implementation of a clear and radical action plan for the gradual reform of legal off-plan building on the basis of the provisions of the New General Urban Plans or Plans for the Spatial and Housing Organisation of the Open City.
Promote new regulatory plans and update existing ones. The immediate objective is to cover more than 50% of the territory with General Urban Plans and Open Urban Spatial and Housing Organisation Plans, mainly in pressure zones.
Assimilation of international successful practices of metropolitan area organisation, planning and governance.
Utilization and preservation of the infrastructure that was formed for the Olympic Games.
Housing policy by facilitating rapid integration into city plans and by enabling all workers to obtain housing.
Special arrangements for low-income population groups (returnees, minorities, Gypsies, immigrants, etc.).
Expanding the sources of funding and increasing the resources available for improving the urban environment and quality of life by developing an appropriate institutional framework for mobilising private capital for urban regeneration and creating a "Special Fund" to finance regeneration in deprived areas.
Studies and regeneration projects in all the cities of the country and the most important settlements in cooperation with the local authorities.
Network of Model Municipalities and Settlements, in terms of the quality of city functioning, with specific funding.
Creation of large urban and suburban parks (Elliniko, Goudi, Tatoi, Haidari, Sheikh-Su etc.), as well as the creation of theme parks throughout Greece.
Safe disposal and recovery of waste, maximising recovery, recycling and treatment.
Rapid implementation of the 13 Regional Systems and the National Plan for Integrated and Alternative Solid Waste Management, with emphasis on the construction and operation of new organised landfills and the promotion of treatment plants, as well as the rehabilitation of all uncontrolled dumping sites.
Complete elimination of uncontrolled landfills by 2008.
Source-sorting and recycling of household waste for 6 million citizens by 2006.
Operation of integrated systems at national and regional level for the management of all specific categories of solid waste by 2008.
These actions will be combined with organised training of the staff of the local authorities involved in waste management, as well as with systematic and effective information for decision-makers at local level and citizens in general, in order to improve cooperation between central and regional administration, local authorities and local communities in order to tackle the problem.
Promote and complete major infrastructure projects for all uses.
Creation of integrated flood protection plans in each region integrated in the concept of rational environmental management.
An integrated approach to water protection and management, on the one hand, by implementing Management Plans in order to combine demand and supply, taking into account ecological, health, social and economic data, and on the other hand, by operating at central and regional level the administrative structures provided for in the new institutional framework we have established.
Upgrading, expanding and improving the environmental performance of infrastructure by constructing the necessary projects to meet demand, reducing losses, saving water, reusing treated wastewater and improving the monitoring system for water quality and quantity.
Integrated water protection and management with the required infrastructure projects will be a top priority area for the programming period of the 4th Community Support Framework (after 2006) with integrated planning and systematic preparation and completion of the necessary infrastructure projects (dams, Acheloos, Karla etc.).
Full operation of the integrated water protection and management system by 2008 in accordance with the institutional framework we have established.
Design and construction of flood protection works to be placed upstream, i.e. before residential areas, with the simultaneous construction of retention reservoirs in order to collect the water and to enable, apart from reducing flood peaks, the utilisation of the collected water for appropriate uses.
Completion and operation of wastewater treatment plants in all cities of the country and in major tourist areas by 2005 and upgrading and improving the operation of those plants that have related problems.
Promote wastewater treatment, mainly using natural systems that are low energy consuming, in all settlements with a population between 2000 and 10000 inhabitants by 2008.
Achieve high quality for 50% of surface and groundwater by 2008 and 100% by 2015.
In the framework of the Kyoto Protocol and taking into account the distribution of responsibilities among the Member States of the European Union, our national target is to prevent greenhouse gas emissions in the period 2008-2012 from increasing on average by more than 25% compared to 1990 emissions.
The main lines of action according to the National Strategy are:
Restructuring and diversification of energy supply.
Rational use and energy saving.
501The promotion and implementation of measures to reduce other greenhouse gases.
Accelerating the penetration of natural gas and renewables, both in electricity generation and in the end-use sectors (residential and tertiary sectors, industry and transport).
The promotion of cogeneration and the modernisation of the power generation system including the selection of the charging order of the power plants taking into account environmental criteria.
The promotion of energy recovery technologies, new energy-efficient appliances and equipment, as well as non-technical measures to reduce final energy demand, with a focus on the transport sector.
To produce 10% of total energy and 20% of electricity from Renewable Energy Sources by 2008, approaching the EU average energy intensity.
Promote measures to reduce other greenhouse gases from industry, agriculture and waste management to reduce fluorine gas compounds and emissions of methane and nitrous oxide.
The key action lines for reducing air pollutants are:
Restructuring and diversification of energy supply aimed mainly at reducing emissions of sulphur dioxide and, to a lesser extent, nitrogen oxides and particulate matter.
Promoting the integration of an environmental dimension in the transport sector that helps reduce emissions of nitrogen oxides and carbon monoxide and to a lesser extent particulate matter.
Promoting the integration of the environmental dimension in the industrial sector (beyond energy use), with the aim of reducing emissions of nitrous oxide, sulphur dioxide and particulate matter.
Promote the penetration of natural gas and renewable energy sources in both electricity generation and end-use sectors (residential and tertiary sectors, industry and transport).
Promoting rational use and energy saving in the building sector.
Promoting the renewal of the vehicle fleet, the systematic implementation of fuel quality controls and the promotion of more environmentally friendly fuels (natural gas, LPG, etc.), as well as the implementation of measures to improve traffic management and the further strengthening of public transport, especially fixed-route transport.
The implementation of measures to improve the environmental performance of the industry which, in addition to actions related to energy use (substitution of oil with gas, saving.
energy, promotion of cogeneration) include the application of Best Available Techniques in the production process and Environmental Management Systems.
The main lines of action in the field of protection of the natural environment and biodiversity are:
the conservation of important natural habitats and wildlife species.
Integrated management of water and land resources to ensure the conservation of biodiversity.
Drafting and adoption of National Strategies for Biodiversity and Forests, in line with the guidelines of the European Strategy and launching the implementation of the National Strategy for Wetland Resources.
Further implementation of the National Plan for the Natural Environment in order to cover the protection, through management agencies, of the 50 most important biotopes of the country and the promotion of these areas as model centres of alternative sustainable development and protection through programmatic contracts of 50 other areas of high environmental value.
Sustainable management of natural resources, in particular forests, and strengthening afforestation and natural regeneration programmes.
Complete forestry legislation by creating a forestry code. The aim is to create a national land use map (forest register) and intensify efforts to effectively protect forests from fires and deforestation.
Adopt and implement stricter standards for quarrying activities.
Closure of all sub-standard quarries that degrade the environment.
Design and implementation of landscape restoration programmes in old quarries with priority in peri-urban areas.
Increasing urban and peri-urban green space in cooperation with the local authorities.
Our main objectives towards integrating the environmental dimension in the energy sector are included in the National Programme for the Reduction of Greenhouse Gas Emissions.
In summary it is:
Promotion of energy saving and cogeneration technologies to limit losses and reduce the energy intensity of the Greek economy.
Completion of natural gas distribution networks and dissemination of its use in the building sector and industry, in parallel with the promotion of major interconnection projects with the countries of origin of natural gas (e.g. the Burgas-Alexandroupolis pipeline) and major European markets.
Drastically increase the participation of RES in the Greek energy balance and especially in electricity generation by encouraging independent producers in the context of the liberalized market and promoting the necessary grid reinforcement projects.
Our main objectives in the direction of integrating the environmental dimension in the transport sector are combined with targets for the reduction of air pollutants and with the National Programme for the Reduction of Greenhouse Gas Emissions, as well as with the general objective of improving the quality of life.
In summary it is:
Strengthening and expansion of public transport infrastructure, with emphasis on fixed-track systems (railways, metro, trams) as well as upgrading the road network in order to address the phenomena of intense traffic congestion and always taking care to improve road safety.
Promoting alternative fuels, with a short-term objective of increasing the number of gas-powered cars and a medium and long-term objective of using biofuels (bio-based diesel, etc.), as well as strengthening research and development of new environmentally friendly technologies (electromobility, etc.).
More environmentally friendly organisation and traffic management in urban areas, in cooperation with the Local Authorities, promotion of necessary traffic regulations, parking management with environmental criteria and provision of pedestrian and cycle paths.
Our main objectives in the direction of integrating the environmental dimension in the agricultural sector are combined with the objectives of protecting and preserving the natural environment and with the objectives of integrated water protection and management and are:
Promoting the integrated development of rural areas, making use of local resources and strengthening their multifunctional character.
Promote the implementation of good agricultural and fishing practices that reduce the impact on the natural environment, with emphasis on informing farmers to adopt them.
Strengthening organic agriculture and livestock farming while promoting the comparative advantages of Greek agriculture and its traditional products, continuing the fallowing programmes and promoting alternative crops.
Rational management of water resources and improving the efficiency of land reclamation projects.
Our main objectives in the direction of integrating the environmental dimension in the industrial sector are linked to the implementation of the institutional framework for Integrated Pollution Control and Prevention, which concerns the adoption by industrial units of best available techniques for their production processes and pollution abatement facilities, and are:
Enhancing environmental performance by restructuring and adapting the production process and pollution control systems by applying Best Available Techniques.
Fuel substitution, with an emphasis on the rapid penetration of natural gas, while encouraging industrial enterprises to switch to the renewable electricity market (green electricity), taking advantage of the opportunities offered by the liberalisation of the electricity market.
Energy saving, with the aim of reducing the energy intensity of industry, especially in the large number of Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs), where similar interventions have not progressed well.
Encourage and support businesses to become certified to environmental management standards and obtain an eco-label for their products.
Our main objectives in integrating the environmental dimension in the tourism sector are linked to our objectives for the protection and preservation of the natural environment, which is one of the key resources for sustainable tourism development.
In summary it is:
More effective management of the environmental problems associated with mass tourism and the intensity of tourism activities, while promoting the improvement of the environmental performance of tourist units (water saving and recycling, energy saving, etc.).
Diversification of the tourism product by encouraging the development of alternative forms of tourism (ecotourism, agrotourism, nature tourism, etc.) that are more harmoniously integrated into the environment, allowing also the reduction of geographical concentration and the extension of the tourist season.
Policies for environmental protection and sustainable development create important employment opportunities and business development opportunities.
We will work systematically in this direction over the next four years, using appropriate means such as: support for research, support for businesses, training programmes.
Waste management.
Renewable Energy Sources.
Water protection and management.
Protection and conservation of the natural environment.
Alternative forms of tourism.
Clean Production and Environmental Management Systems.
Environmental Audits.
Good agricultural practices and organic farming.
International - transnational cooperation.
We believe that the effective protection of the environment is linked to the activation of society in this direction and the strengthening of environmental awareness of citizens.
Achieving the important environmental goals we have set requires cooperation between state and society and makes it necessary to provide environmental information in a transparent and accountable manner.
In this direction, we will continue our cooperation with all social partners and Environmental NGOs, we will advance our environmental information management programmes, always providing public access to environmental information, we will work systematically on environmental education and implement environmental awareness programmes on critical issues.
At the same time, we will pay particular attention to linking specific social groups with environmental protection issues and we note indicatively:
Programmes for special groups such as the Third Age and schoolchildren, providing them with the opportunity to come into contact with protected areas, areas of outstanding natural beauty and traditional settlements.
Sport programmes with the organisation of sports events, compatible with the environment, in areas of outstanding natural beauty and elsewhere.
Programmes for the conservation and valorisation of our architectural and cultural heritage by developing initiatives and interventions, both in the built and natural environment, with the revitalisation of social and economic life in remote areas.
We believe that environmental issues and sustainable development in general are a privileged field for transnational and international cooperation.
With this understanding, we will continue in a more systematic and substantial way, in the framework of the OECD Development Assistance Committee programmes, the Greek Economic Reconstruction Plan for the Balkans and other financial instruments, the cooperation and support of our neighbouring countries (Balkans, Black Sea, Eastern Mediterranean, etc.) in the direction of environmental protection and sustainable development in these countries.
We emphasise new technologies, equipping our young people with all the necessary skills to compete in the new reality, the full development of their character, respect for their personality and the principles of democracy and equality.
Equal opportunities for high-quality education are given to all.
An education system that is open, flexible and attractive for children, young people and adults.
The method to achieve this is the policy of decentralisation and active participation of society, structured dialogue and the use of the creative potential of teachers.
A necessary precondition is a significant increase in spending on education to reach 5% of GDP by 2008.
In particular:
Increasing the proportion of female graduates: While today the ratio of men to women is 1 to 1.7 for universities and 1 to 2.7 for TEIs, we want to achieve a ratio of 1 to 1.3 for universities and 1 to 2 for TEIs by 2008.
Reduce school drop-out from 6.3% to 4% in 2008 and to 1.5% by 2010.
Already, Greece is in one of the best positions in Europe, given that the European Union has a target to reduce school drop-out in each country to 10%.
Establishment, by 2008, of two years of compulsory kindergarten education for all children aged 4-6 years.
The continuous expansion of the institution of all-day kindergarten has given a new qualitative dimension to pre-school education, which, as the first level of systematic education, is considered particularly important, as it contributes to the smooth development of infants and their preparation for school life in primary school.
Today there are 1,933 Day Nurseries with 2,115 sections, 51,825 infants attending and 4,230 kindergarten teachers.
The goal for the next four years is to expand the institution with priority to cover educational and social needs throughout the country, while at the same time the integration of all kindergartens in the country into the structure and operation of the new institution will be pursued.
Multi-seat Kindergartens will be established with a Headmistress/Director who will be selected through a selection procedure similar to that of the Primary School Directors.
Coverage, by the end of 2008, of 100% of primary schools with IT equipment for its use in teaching practice (currently 60%).
Development and adaptation of software suitable for Primary Education.
Recruitment of auxiliary staff for the needs of full-time primary schools.
3,829 part-time workers will be recruited for table service and housekeeping duties.
Introduction of a second foreign language as an optional option in a number of primary schools.
Distance learning, using new technology, in subjects that cannot be taught in remote, small schools (e.g. foreign language).
Continue and generalise the implementation of the flexible zone programme, which is currently being implemented in 566 primary schools.
Development - optimisation of the teaching of English language from the third grade of primary school, introduced from the school year 2003-2004.
Experimental implementation of the creation of 58 school physics workshops and 15 music and visual arts workshops.
Improving the quality of education in isolated - hard-to-reach areas by setting up scientific teams within the framework of the Regional Educational Planning Support Centres (PEP.KE.S.E.S.), which, in cooperation with School Counsellors, will provide multifaceted support to teachers in hard-to-reach schools.
Strengthening of the first grade of primary school with the exceptional creation of three sections (AI, A2, A3) in the twelve-seat primary schools, with a smaller number of pupils, which in the next grade are merged into two (B1 and B2).
We are proceeding with the design and implementation of the operation of the Full Day High School as a school of free choice, aiming at the creative use of students' free time with optional free choice programmes.
The activities include Teaching Support (Language, Mathematics, Physics, Chemistry), Foreign Languages, Information Technology, Creative Activities (Music, Art, Theatre, Dance, Cinema), Sports Activities and Cultural Activities.
The Free Choice School can only be the School of the Collective - Centre of Community Action. Parents' associations, PTAs and NPOs may submit and implement "free choice" programmes, if they have been chosen by the pupils.
These programmes are funded by the State.
Abandoning the practice of the curriculum and introducing the international practice of target setting.
The way the objectives are implemented will be at the discretion of the school unit and the teacher.
Since 2005, the informal training process has been introduced.
After six years of professional experience, craftsmen without formal qualifications submit their professional file to the TEI and, after examinations in committees of the TEI, they can either join them or obtain a level II or III diploma.
105 Labour Market Liaison Offices are gradually being set up by 2006 |.
Development of practical training in enterprises for students of technical and vocational education and training (30,000 students by 2006).
Student interns are covered for medical and hospital expenses in state hospitals, while students, teachers and business staff participating in the internship receive an hourly allowance, depending on the duration of the programme and its location.
Extension of the programme until 2008.
Operation of virtual enterprises in schools, simulating the conditions, methods and procedures prevailing in the labour market, in order to give students experience of the professional and entrepreneurial mindset.
Encouraging entrepreneurship.
Introduction of the Entrepreneurship course in the timetable of the TEI (until 2006) as an extension of the relevant programme already in place.
Development and integration of professional - educational software in the specialisation courses of the technical colleges (60 software with corresponding training of 10,000 teachers), by 2006.
Extension of implementation by 2008.
Gradual implementation, by 2008, of the statutory possibility of contracting between VET institutions and public and private sector enterprises.
Implementation, since 2004, of the Presidential Decree harmonising the assessment procedures for students of Technical and Vocational Education and Training (TEE) with those of the Comprehensive Lyceum without altering the specific character of Technical and Vocational Education.
51 building projects have been completed with the aim of creating new buildings for 72 technical colleges and 24 vocational training centres by 2008.
Operation of a nationwide four-digit call centre to serve students and entrepreneurs.
As a result of the work of the four-year period 2000-2004, the elimination of double shifts in the vast majority of the country's school units and set the basis for the complete elimination of double shifts in both metropolitan centres of Athens and Thessaloniki by the end of 2005.
Already 80% of schools across Greece operate in the morning shift.
The Strategic and Operational Action Plan of the OCC includes an investment programme of 240 million per year for the period 2004-2007.
The Open School is the new generation of schools which, in addition to classrooms and laboratories, will also have multi-purpose sports and cultural facilities, theatres, recreational areas, internet cafés, small bookshops and underground parking.
In primary education there are 12 pupils per teacher.
There are 10 pupils per teacher in the Gymnasiums and 11 pupils per teacher in the Secondary Schools.
In the TEIs there are 7 students per teacher.
They are carried out at the level of the school unit (in-school training), under the responsibility of the school counsellor, the school director or the teachers' association.
The school counsellor, in cooperation with the school, will be able to manage small and flexible training programmes and intervene in issues related to training problems of specific school units or groups of schools.
They are also organised at the level of an educational region, county, or headquarters of a PEK, etc. and aim to improve specific and identified problems.
It is the starting point of our policy that the change of a teacher's entrenched practices can only come about when he or she is convinced through a comprehensive, theoretical and practical, alternative proposal.
76,000 teachers have been trained in basic computer skills and 41,000 additional teachers will be trained in basic computer skills during the period 2004-2006.
15,000 teachers will be trained in the use of computers to teach individual subjects in the classroom during the period 2004-2006.
All programmes include certification procedures that correspond to the respective training curricula.
100,000 teachers will be trained in the period 2004-2006 in the specific teaching subjects, with the participation of the decentralised services of the Ministry of Education and Science.
2,000 teachers will be trained in the period 2004-2006 in theatre education.
10 000 teachers will be trained in Environmental Education during 2004-2006.
In the period 2003-2006, specialized training of 10,000 teachers of specialties of Technical Vocational Education (TVET) in the pedagogical use of educational software for the achievement of the curriculum objectives of the sectors of TVET is being implemented.
The well-established institution of the Introductory Training for newly appointed teachers of all specialties, which is conducted every school year, continues.
During the 2003-2004 school year, some 7,000 teachers will be trained.
During 2004 and by the end of 2005, 8,550 primary and secondary education staff (Regional Directors of Education, Directors of Education, Heads of Offices and School Counsellors) will have been trained.
Exploiting the structure and potential of the EAP for teacher training.
2,395 educational permits were granted in 2001-2003 for postgraduate programmes (masters and doctoral).
It is planned to increase the number of licences granted by 2008.
2,817 teachers from 2000 to 2003 participated in the retraining programmes.
For the period 2004-2008 this policy will continue with an effort to increase the number of applicants and students and emphasis on further training in Special Education.
Evaluation is an interwoven concept with quality in education.
The objectives of evaluation (Law 2986/2002) are shaped by the interaction of teachers with students - primarily - with the educational community, with parents and with the local community.
have been published.
A total of 126 teaching packages for Kindergarten, Primary and Secondary schools
25 maps, 37 CD-ROMs, 24 DVD-ROMs, 13 Audio CDs, 1 Visual CD, 360,000 copies of posters, 78,000 copies of Audio CDs (music), 14,000 copies of Visual CDs (slides) and 15,000 copies of the Interdisciplinary Integrated Curriculum Framework.
Schools today are connected to the internet through a school network that is the largest network in the country and one of the largest in Europe.
Today, 300 schools are already connected to high-speed broadband and we are massively upgrading 3,000 school connections to broadband technologies in 2004, while the remaining schools are scheduled to upgrade their connections to broadband by 2005.
Distance learning - A large number of primary and secondary school teachers, around 1 600 per day, visit the Education Portal.
Enriching the base of the Education Portal with educational activities.
Development of a web-based educational environment to support asynchronous distance learning.
Distance asynchronous training of teachers for teaching courses.
Adaptation and development of the educational portal on a free software platform.
Provision of internet connection.
Computer skills certification.
The High School Athletic Facilitation Departments (GASD)-Special High School Athletic Facilitation Departments (SYSD) started their operation in 1988 with 12 schools.
Today these departments operate in 105 secondary schools and 12 high schools.
There are 8,100 students attending them.
730 Physical Education teachers, specialised in Sports, are employed.
27 Olympic sports are cultivated.
Objective 2004-2008: creation of pure Sports Schools in the type of Music Schools.
The goal by 2008 is to create one Sports School per county.
With the basic and inviolable principle of equal access to education for all young people, infrastructure was created at all levels of education during the four years 2000-2004.
There are already 1,074 primary (P.E.) and secondary (S.E.) Integration Departments, 281 P.E. and S.E. Special Education Units, 50 Special Vocational Education and Training Laboratories.
In total, there are 1,405 educational establishments serving 18,585 students.
There are also 11 training units in hospitals.
Expansion of the institution of all-day schooling to include Special Schools Operation of the K.D.A.Y. as counselling centres.
Establishment of special courses that meet the needs and circumstances of different groups of adults with disabilities.
The establishment of specific support programmes for the admission of young people with disabilities to vocational and higher education.
The introduction and support of flexible personalised programmes .
During the four-year period 2000-2004, 27 schools of intercultural education operated throughout Greece, while the Institute of Education of the Homogenous and Intercultural Education (IPODE) operates as a scientific advisory body to the Ministry of Education.
There are 422 reception classes and 556 tutorial classes with programmes for the education of returnees, foreigners, Muslims and gypsy children.
Relevant teacher training programmes have been implemented and specific teaching materials have been developed.
In addition, 10 full-day minority schools were established, with 28 sections.
Intercultural interventions are being intensified in order to gradually cover all schools in the territory, where, according to a survey conducted by the IUPODE, problems arise due to the high number of returnees and immigrants.
The expansion of education programmes for returnees, foreigners, expatriates, Muslims and gypsies is planned.
At the same time, a literacy programme for parents of returning pupils is planned.
The introduction of Turkish as an optional language in secondary schools is planned.
The introduction of the mother tongue as a supportive language in kindergartens is also planned.
Work is completed on school buildings in Germany, England and Brussels.
The "nuclei" of Hellenism in higher education institutions abroad are supported and financially strengthened.
Those who graduate from the technical colleges and belong to the Muslim minority of Thrace are also given the opportunity to be admitted to the TEI at a rate of 0.5%, in accordance with the corresponding regulation for high school graduates belonging to this minority.
In the four-year period 2004-2008, the procedure for the placement of teachers abroad will be renewed and extended, and positions that are now open to expatriate teachers.
The introduction of the Greek language in the primary and secondary education programmes of the European Union countries (Germany) is sought.
The 46 Public Libraries now have infrastructure and electronic equipment that supports both their traditional educational and cultural functions and the operation of more innovative activities such as information centres.
At the same time, 32 mobile libraries provide services to around 1,000 remote villages and schools in the country.
200 Psychologists - Sociologists in education who will provide counselling and psychological support to pupils facing problems and work with parents and teachers in the framework of counselling structures such as Youth Counselling Centres and Parents' Counselling which are being developed regionally and 150 Actors - Directors - Dancers who will support the creation of theatre and dance performances, the formation of theatre-dance groups, contributing to artistic creation and the development of cultural interests in the school environment.
200 Librarians: They will cover needs in existing school libraries and in other libraries soon to be created.
2829 Site managers.
a) Curricula are no longer drawn up exclusively by the central administration but, as in almost all European countries, there are elective courses, determined with the participation of each school and on the basis of the needs of the local community.
b) Each school unit can choose the textbooks it will use from among the many approved free trade textbooks.
(c) Teacher training is provided on a decentralized basis, depending on the needs of each school.
In the next phase, the practice of the curriculum is abandoned and the international practice of target setting is established.
The way the objectives are implemented is the responsibility of the school unit.
The institution of self-evaluation and assessment is reintroduced at all levels of education.
Extensive social dialogue and systematic research is carried out to identify society's expectations of the school.
Specifically, the issues of the structure and organisation of the school, as well as the procedures for young people's access to higher education are examined.
Bipartisan cooperation is sought on this last issue.
The use and strengthening of the National Council of Education (NCE) will contribute to this direction.
The introduction of continuous and systematic information for young people and families on the functioning of the education system, the curricula, the possibilities of access to the next educational levels, the possibilities of graduates to enter the labour market.
Learning in schools is made meaningful and engaging.
The programme of Olympic education in primary and secondary education is maintained and continued.
For this purpose, modern, participatory educational methods are used, new technology is exploited and all schools are equipped with IT equipment, the necessary specialised scientific staff (e.g. career guidance counsellors, psychologists, librarians, etc.) is provided in schools, the institution of Educational Television is further exploited, the existing network of School Libraries is expanded and enriched with Mobile Libraries.
In general, school becomes a place of creative knowledge acquisition and the development of the ability to "learn to learn".
Students become individuals capable of directing their own lives.
Greece now has one of the highest rates in Europe (over 60%) in terms of the percentage of the population aged 18-21 years old who have the opportunity to study in higher education (83,000 places created).
For the academic year 2004-2005, the EAP offers 6 undergraduate (3,200 places) and 18 postgraduate programmes (1,960 places).
Also, for the same academic year, for the first time, people with special needs will be admitted to the EAP, in addition to the places advertised in each undergraduate programme of study and at a rate of 3%.
Approximately 13,000 students of universities and TEI are currently housed virtually free of charge in student residences or in rented rooms in hotels.
8,000 students receive a rent subsidy.
In 2004-2006, 4,000 new beds will be added to student halls of residence, bringing the total number of free student accommodation to 17,000.
By 2008, the number of available beds is planned to reach 22,000 (18.3% of the total number of active students of around 120,000) and the construction of new halls of residence is planned to be under way so that by 2010 the total number of available beds will reach 27,000 (22.5%).
During the period 2004-2008, initiatives for the construction of student halls of residence by the private sector will be encouraged.
TEI students who study away from their family's permanent residence are supported with an amount of 100 euros per month for 10 months per year, an aid of 1,000 euros per year or 4,000 euros for four years of study
Interest-free loan programme.
Supporting students for their studies and their career prospects.
For the first time in Greece, a strategic and spatial plan for the development of higher education has been drawn up for the year 2010, on the basis of which the creation of new institutions and the academic and spatial expansion or restructuring of existing ones will be carried out.
The overall responsibility for this project lies with the Strategic and Spatial Planning Group (SPG) set up by the Ministry of Education in 2000.
More opportunities for access to higher education are provided through the creation of non-state non-profit universities and TEIs.
Strategic and Spatial Development Plan for Higher Education until 2010.
Organise and activate a National Quality Assurance and Evaluation System for Higher Education.
Functioning of the ESYP as an independent administrative authority for structured dialogue and the creation of consensus on educational issues.
To strengthen the institution, the ESYP will be directly under the Parliament.
Activation of the Lifelong Learning Institutes.
Opening of the International Hellenic University.
Activation of joint European postgraduate programmes.
Institutional interventions in the management and decision-making matrix of universities.
Institutional interventions in the procedures for the election of faculty members.
Reconstitution of Higher Institutions with an even greater extension of their autonomy.
Each institution will be able to shape its own identity.
Each institution shall submit draft internal rules of procedure for its operating structure, objectives and strategy.
The first cycle of studies leads to the awarding of the first degree (University degree or diploma or Technical University degree) after studies of at least four years' duration.
The second cycle of studies leads on the one hand to the award of a first degree (Master's degree), equivalent to the master's level degrees, after one or two years of study, and on the other hand to the award of a second degree (doctoral degree) after a doctoral thesis of at least three years' duration.
Recognition of qualifications and periods of study abroad The
content of this section refers to the means by which each student's studies and knowledge can be recorded and is developed along three axes.
The first two axes concern elements related to studies.
The first axis relates to the structural elements of studies and is expressed by the credit transfer system (ECTS), while the second axis relates to the content elements of studies and is expressed by the Diploma Supplement.
The third axis has to do with the knowledge, qualifications and competences that each student acquires through their studies and is expressed in the Qualifications Framework.
In 2004-2006, a comprehensive plan will be proposed to promote a new legislative and organisational framework aimed at simplifying, objectifying and rationalising the procedures for the academic recognition of qualifications and periods of study abroad, taking into account the current European reality as it is shaped in the context of the Bologna Process.
Joint development of the European Higher Education Area and the European Research Area as a prerequisite for the completion of the Knowledge Society.
Strengthening the links between higher education and research.
A single policy for research and technological development.
New climate and dynamics: already the first 30 Postgraduate Studies Programmes (MSc) have been approved and are carried out in partnership or co-organised by Departments of Universities and Universities of Applied Sciences in related fields.
In the next four years: support of the state in the further qualitative upgrading of T.E.I. so that those departments that meet certain criteria can organise independent first cycle MSc courses.
Education does not stop at the end of school or university.
And Lifelong Learning is not just limited to fast-track training.
The modern citizen needs to learn continuously, on many levels, in order to be able to adapt to changes and developments in his or her professional field, but at the same time to have the knowledge needed to actively participate in the governance of the country.
Our aim is to spread Lifelong Education widely in society, to equip the local community with the power of knowledge.
We believe that the emphasis on Lifelong Education will boost all development efforts, both in terms of the economy and the fight against unemployment, as well as in terms of quality of life and social policy.
We want, by 2008, to have a fivefold increase in the number of adults trained and educated each year, i.e. 10%.
So that in every five years thereafter, around half of the country's citizens will participate in learning.
Therefore, special emphasis will be placed on the establishment of an integrated Lifelong Learning System, including the following reforms:
Education loan subsidies for young people, unemployed, unemployed.
Business subsidies and tax incentives for training of unemployed people and staff.
Training of business executives at universities and universities of applied sciences with public subsidies through programmatic contracts.
Establishment of sectoral or local vocational training funds by enterprises and other economic operators, co-financed by the state.
Expanding the activities of the Open University.
Training of lifelong education staff.
training or experience.
Evaluation and coordination of Lifelong Learning actions.
With the developing credit transfer system and the European Training Passport, training will increasingly take place in different European countries.
Fast-paced and flexible training.
Acquiring a new specialisation or adding new qualifications that have become necessary.
Certification of qualifications.
e-learning for all professionals
All young professionals will be "e-literate", a bridge to a knowledge economy open to all, which will mitigate inequalities and reward individual and collective effort.
Over the next four years, around 40,000 young professionals will acquire the ability to use basic IT applications.
But also those who are already engaged in a professional activity will have the opportunity, wherever they are in Greece, to join - free of charge or at very low cost - programmes to learn the necessary IT applications.
The extensive network of IEKs and their branches as well as computer laboratories throughout Greece will be used in combination with electronic educational software and forms of distance learning and certification.
By 2008, around 100,000 adults will have been trained in basic skills in new technologies.
To increase opportunities for social inclusion and employment Lifelong Learning and Adult Education Networks, aiming at equal learning opportunities for citizens throughout their lives.
There are already 19 Second Chance Schools in operation.
By 2008, a total of 50 SDEs will be in operation, with an estimated 9,500 adults attending.
To promote Lifelong Learning at local level.
To enhance citizens' skills and access to the world of knowledge, information and employment.
With educational programmes organised according to the level of the educational system completed by the adults.
There are already 10 Adult Education Centres with 4,000 adult learners.
By 2006, it is planned to establish at least 8 additional CECs with 8,000 adult learners.
By 2008, adults in education will increase from 2% to 10%.
Successful implementation in previous years and generalisation throughout Greece, in cooperation with the Municipalities and local parent and guardian organisations.
2003-04 : 4,000 parents in 200 classes / with 75 trainers
Design 2004-2006: 8,000 parents and 2006-2008: 8,000 parents.
Greek language training for immigrants
For the integration of adult economic immigrants into Greek society.Design: 2003-06, 1,000 immigrants in 100 classes with 100 trainers.Design 2006-2008: 1,000 immigrants.
Voluntary action for Emergency Response.
2003-2004 the action is expanded and two-day seminars are organized in cooperation with the National Centre for Public Administration.
Already 1,000 civil servants have been trained and 4,000 more will be trained in 2004.
The programme will be implemented in the 13 Regions in order to train the staff of the Municipalities, Regions, etc. on risk management issues (1,500 people).
With an emphasis on Information Technology, Greek language skills for immigrants - returnees - expatriates, ROM Counselling, Prisoner Education Programmes, Women's Entrepreneurship Development, Leisure Time Utilisation Programmes.
An average of 17,000 adults participate annually.
Five priority axes with education as the horizontal axis
Priority groups are young people with special needs, linguistic, cultural and religious diversity, young people who have left the education system or are long-term unemployed, young offenders, ex-drug users and young people from remote areas.
Intensification of the operation of the Youth Information Centres;
- Interconnection with the Citizen Service Centres;
- Creation of education and training structures for their staff;
- Cooperation with similar structures in other European countries for the exchange of know-how and best practices.
Gradual expansion of their operation in the field of counselling services (Information and Counselling Centres).
Establishment of a National Youth Information Council.
Strengthening the participation of young people as active citizens;
- Operation of the Time Bank;
- Extension of the cooperation between the GNSS and the Post Office ("Holidays and Volunteering") to other Public Services and Institutions.
Expansion and operation of 20 Youth Entrepreneurship Pockets throughout Greece.
Development and operation of a Youth Entrepreneurship Observatory.
Operation of a National Observatory for Children's Rights.
Recording and continuous updating and promotion of the "Youth Charter of Privileges" .
Implementation in Greece of the Youth Card.
Strengthening social, educational and alternative tourism programmes
In a modern state, such as Greece, culture is a basic component of collective identity and a decisive factor of social cohesion.
It is directly connected to everyday life and permeates our lives even in its details.
In short, culture is, first of all, a matter for society itself.
Not only is it not imposed from above, but it includes all the countless forms of personal expression that take place in an open society.
In this respect, our country is experiencing a period of prosperity and vitality.
Culture is becoming more and more widespread, the cultural scene is very rich.
All over the country, young bands and established artists alternate in front of an ever-increasing audience that is making more advanced demands.
The rise in living standards, the investment of significant resources in leisure time, the stability of the political system and the prevalence of certain norms have highlighted quality of life as a key parameter of social and political life.
So, on the one hand, the cultural industry is developing: more and more work is being produced, more and more people are employed, more and more resources are being spent, more and more activities are being rapidly branched out.
From television and books to industrial design and tourism: the cultural economy is becoming increasingly important.
At the same time, with the help of technology, aesthetic choices are diffusing and cultural practices are becoming a constitutive part of the identity of more and more people.
On the other hand, however, many people, especially members of groups with educational deficits or livelihood difficulties, are in practice excluded from participating in cultural enjoyment.
Also, under the rule of uniformity and easy consumerism, there is a danger that original and innovative voices, those that give culture a special breath and allow it to express and shape the world, will be restricted.
In this cultural environment, responsible citizens of a mature democracy have increased demands on the State.
They demand a rich and valuable cultural environment without tolerating paternalism and the authority of experts.
They demand many creative choices without disregarding the goods produced by the cultural industry.
They demand access to creation without consenting to the levelling of preferences.
They demand the country's constant participation in the international cultural scene without compromising the identity of our society or its local ties.
It is up to the State, a State sensitive to the demands of responsible citizens, to meet them through cultural policies.
Policies that refer both to culture in the broad sense, the values, attitudes and attitudes of society, and culture in the narrow sense, letters and the arts.
And in this area we, in PASOK, have many reasons to have confidence in our work and in our programme.
The culture of society is something very broad, embracing attitudes, attitudes, values...
It is true that the formation of the morals of society does not in principle fall within the competence of the State.
However, part of the responsibility, that which refers to the way politics is conducted, also falls on the shoulders of a large party, which stimulates the enthusiasm of the citizens and transforms it into political action.
As a party, in the last four years, we have consciously and planned to change public life and the way politics is conducted: we have come into conflict with introversion and nationalism, the idealisation of a mythical past and conservatism,
the contempt for institutions and clientelism, the
violation of minority rights,
social populism and fiscal irresponsibility,
xenophobia and simplicity.
And, conversely, we have worked hard to inculcate - directly through the implementation of our policies, directly through education -
the values of autonomy, creativity and responsibility,
solidarity and substantive equality, tolerance
and internationalism.
We are aware of the difficulties of the task.
Many of our fellow citizens are strongly resisting, either out of ignorance or out of anxiety in the face of international and domestic developments or, finally, out of fear of losing what they have gained.
Our duty is to convince especially those in the first two categories that the society we envision has room for all if they respect each other's rights.
We pledge that we will not lower the banner of modernising the way politics is done.
We pledge to continue steadfastly in the direction indicated by the values of the modern Left of responsibility.
Our direction: cultural development
Interventions in public life should not make us disregard the autonomy of the cultural field in the strict sense of the term.
Nor is it legitimate for the State to manipulate citizens in this area: aesthetics and creation are the business of each of us.
However, the intervention of the State is necessary in the face of not only the distortions of the cultural industry, but also the exclusions that take place.
It is the duty of the State to create an environment rich in cultural opportunities for every citizen.
The cultural policy of PASOK has as its central direction cultural development, which touches every citizen.
Cultural development has the following objectives:
Guaranteeing autonomy and creativity: ensuring conditions for the protection of cultural heritage and the healthy development of the cultural industry, while guaranteeing cultural diversity, innovation and experimentation.
Combating cultural inequalities: combating exclusion from cultural life by ensuring that every person - especially every member of a disadvantaged category (economic, educational, social, ethnic, geographical, etc.) - has the material opportunity to participate in it.
Promotion of the cultural physiognomy of modern Greece: promotion of Greece as a modern society that shapes its cultural physiognomy and at the same time seeks cooperation and dialogue with other countries within the framework of the United Europe and the international system.
As it approaches these goals, culture also performs broader social functions.
It contributes to strengthening the autonomy and creativity of every citizen, consolidating social cohesion and tackling xenophobia, racism and intolerance, as well as boosting national self-confidence.
If the four-year period 1996-2000 is characterised by the implementation of a forward-looking approach to the functioning of cultural institutions, the four-year period 2000-2004 is characterised by the endowment of the country with very important cultural infrastructures.
The funding of this huge project was mainly through the 3rd CSF.
The creation of cultural infrastructure through the 3rd CSF has a double importance: infrastructure not only covers key cultural needs, but is a strong development proposal.
Archaeological sites (Acropolis, Dodoni, Nicopolis, Mistras, Mycenae, Rhodes, Delos, Knossos, Olympia...) and monuments (New Monastery of Chios, Mytilene Castle...) were upgraded all over the country.
Through a series of coordinated actions, the claim for the Parthenon Marbles was effectively promoted.
Museums have been created or modernized or renovated or created (Byzantine Museum of Athens, Macedonian Museum, Archaeological Museum of Heraklion, Archaeological Museum of Mycenae, New Acropolis Museum, the National Archaeological Museum and the Archaeological Museum of Thessaloniki, the museums of Olympia, Volos, Heraklion, Delphi and Ioannina, the Museum of the Ancient Olympic Games....) or other cultural facilities (the Conference Centre of the Athens Concert Hall, the new building of the Benaki Museum on Pireos Street, the Kanakaki Gallery in Rethymno, the National Glyptotheque in Goudi...).
Existing libraries were modernised (starting with the National Library) and 300 new libraries (school, children's and teenage libraries) were established or new services were set up (mobile libraries, libraries in prisons).
Major aesthetic and cultural interventions in the city were completed (the walk around the Sacred Rock through the Consolidation of Archaeological Sites in Athens, the landscaping of the large squares, the works of Santiago Calatrava, the exhibitions in the Metro...).
The Territorial Networks of Culture, which bring together and coordinate the bodies supervised and funded by the Ministry of Culture in all sectors of contemporary creation, have been organised.
The living forces of the cultural scene have been substantially and meritocratically strengthened.
Through the Culture Card, access to the cultural scene has been facilitated for citizens, especially those belonging to vulnerable categories.
A Department of Cinematography was established at the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki.
The insurance scheme for creators has been modernised.
The image of modern Greece was successfully presented abroad (Cultural Olympiad events in Greece and around the world, the International Book Fair in Frankfurt in 2000, the upgrading of the Athens Festival, the ARCO art exhibition in Madrid in 2004...).
The progress that has been made is significant because modern infrastructure gives new impetus to the supply and production of culture.
It is true that it is not enough to meet the new demands of citizens, but it is the starting point for a qualitative leap forward.
The time has come for a cultural policy plan that will guarantee both the work of creators and the participation of citizens in the cultural experience in a balanced way.
The time has come for a mix of actions and interventions that will guarantee the conditions for both creation and participation in its enjoyment.
The four-year period 2004-2008, which coincides with the completion of the infrastructures planned in the last four years, is the period in which a comprehensive overall plan for cultural development will be rolled out, which will ensure equal access for everyone to all forms of creation.
A cultural development plan that will make culture an active part of everyone's daily life.
The infrastructure of culture:
the territory is a vast space for cultural development
The crucial issue for our country is to equip itself with the necessary modern infrastructure, which does not just include facilities but incorporates policies that ensure the attraction of the public and equal access for all.
In the coming four years, the maturation of the projects will lead to a drastic change in the cultural map of the country.
The landscaping, development and enhancement of more than 300 archaeological sites and monuments is completed, which are given new operating conditions, their services to visitors are upgraded and they become modern places of education and entertainment.
The Acropolis, Mount Athos, Vergina, ancient Messina are just a few examples of the change that is already taking place and will be completed.
More than 80 museums are established or radically modernised and host new permanent exhibitions based on new museum and exhibition concepts.
With the help of new technologies, museums are being transformed into places of learning, entertainment, promotion of the cultural heritage and hosting of contemporary cultural activities.
The underground extension of the National Archaeological Museum and the establishment of the Archaeological Museum of the City of Athens are planned.
The effort for the Return of the Marbles continues with the operation of the New Acropolis Museum, but also with the international and British public opinion.
The development in the field of modern culture is similar.
The infrastructure for contemporary creation is being modernized or equipped with new facilities.
The National Museum of Contemporary Art at Fix, the renovated National Opera House at Olympia, the renovated building of the National Theatre, the building of the Athens State Orchestra, the Museum of Greek Folk Art will create the new cultural face of Athens.
- In Thessaloniki, the recently acquired state-of-the-art cultural infrastructure is complemented by the extension of the Great Hall of Music, the State Museum of Contemporary Art in Yfranet, the Museum of Sports - with the result that the capital of Northern Greece fulfils all the conditions for the bidding of the great EXPO 2008 exhibition.
- In Patras, the establishment of a Conference Centre and Music Hall in the Ladopoulos complex, the conversion of the old hospital into a Byzantine Museum and Municipal Gallery, the Carnival Museum, the construction of a Conference and Cultural Centre at the University of Patras are in progress and constitute the necessary conditions for the organisation of the European Capital of Culture in 2006. -
Throughout the country (Heraklion and Komotini, Serres and Drama, Lamia, Rethymnon and Kilkis), model cultural and conference venues are to be opened;
- In Kalamata, the Dance Hall, in Corfu the Lyric Theatre, in Piraeus the renovated Municipal Theatre are some of the examples of the country's new urban image.
Cultural heritage is not only a way of communicating with the past but also a way of participating in contemporary reality.
Thus, where conservation needs allow, an attempt is made to
- Link contemporary creation with cultural heritage through the use of selected archaeological sites and monuments;
- Organise exhibitions of ancient art in public spaces (e.g. Metro).
- The organisation of contemporary creation events in museums and other heritage sites. -
The production and distribution of products inspired by Greek history and tradition;
- The radical renovation of showrooms and sales outlets for such products.
Libraries, in addition to being a legacy of collective, local or national memory and places of initiation into reading, become centres of information and participation in social life.
So in the new four-year term:
- The New National Library is built in the Plesa camp with a concession, which has already been made.
- Special libraries (prisons, juveniles) are expanded
- Units are set up in hospitals.
- The school library programme is completed with the establishment of 300 more.
- The informational role of public and municipal libraries is highlighted through the enrichment with information units.
- The educational role of libraries is highlighted through the systematic attraction of new readers.
Culture is a component of everyone's everyday life.
It enriches and beautifies the life of each of us in the city and in the countryside.
The Unification of Archaeological Sites with the projects in Kerameikos etc., the regulation of the aesthetic image of cities, but also other artistic and visual interventions in public spaces throughout Greece, continue with even more radical and creative proposals.
With the creation of new infrastructures and the modernization of existing ones, mainly in terms of museums, monuments, archaeological sites and festivals, but also the development in the field of contemporary culture, the country claims an upgraded position in the international cultural routes - both at central and regional level.
Supporting the shift of the tourism market towards cultural events or products.
The promotion of the cultural comparative products of Greece.
The promotion of new tourist demand and destinations.
The tourist promotion of archaeological sites and monuments.
The strengthening of quality cultural festivals throughout Greece (Athens Festival, Epidaurus Festival...).
Digital technology unleashes the creativity and imagination of creators, especially young people.
It provides endless opportunities to promote cultural heritage and contemporary creativity.
It facilitates the bridging of distances and cultures.
Completion of the documentation of cultural heritage (creation of digital audiovisual archives at ERT and the Greek Film Centre and digital archives in museums).
The electronic networking of libraries is completed.
Electronic access to museums and archaeological sites through automatic personal and group tours.
New cultural products are produced and promoted.
The actual freedom of cultural expression of each individual is one of the aspects of freedom.
The existence of many living voices is a sign of vitality: cultural life is fed by many different streams of creativity.
We are trying to organise new forms of cooperation between the public and private sectors through:
Further deepening the Territorial Culture Networks.
Supporting the various art forms with programmes that ensure transparency and excellence of outcome and set specific development conditions for the beneficiaries.
Support for independent artists (awards, exhibitions, organisation of cultural routes).
The introduction of development or tax incentives to stimulate entrepreneurship, support small and medium-sized enterprises and the creation of networks in specific sectors, the use of new technologies, the distribution of cultural products and the restoration of market distortions.
The protection of authors' intellectual property rights, particularly in the context of the information society, the fight against new forms of piracy and the development of labelling.
Strengthening research and evaluation.
Innovation and experimentation are specific forms of expression.
If society feeds on the vitality of culture, culture needs innovative, experimental and radical forms of expression.
The flourishing of forms of creativity, which until a few years ago were dormant in our country, is an indication of the receptiveness of Greek society - and especially of young people - towards them.
The State will continue to encourage both innovative and experimental creation and its reception by the public with:
Implementing programmes to provide grants or material support to creators.
The systematic promotion of creators abroad.
Organising access to these forms of creation for the wider public (through educational programmes, etc.).
Supporting young creators through programmes with specific objectives and procedures (scholarships, funding of exhibition catalogues or performance programmes, etc.).
Culture is the business of the inhabitants of our entire country.
In urban centres and in the countryside.
To be able to perform all its functions, it must be accessible everywhere, enriching everyday life everywhere - especially in remote areas, where needs are specific and pressing.
Cultural regional development has always been a constant priority.
The cultural development programme for the four-year period 2004-2008 has the following main directions:
The expansion of infrastructure throughout Greece.
The strengthening of existing libraries and the establishment of new libraries throughout Greece.
The implementation of programmes that make specific provision for reducing regional disparities and ensure transparency and integrity of the outcome.
Organising access to creative forms for specific local communities (through educational programmes, outreach programmes, etc.).
To be able to perform all its functions, it must be accessible to everyone, enriching the daily lives of all - especially those who belong to disadvantaged groups or lack the necessary resources.
For a modern socialist party, the reduction of cultural inequalities is a necessary condition for the achievement of the aims of culture and one of the main priorities.
We want all this activity in terms of infrastructure and creation to be accessible to everyone regardless of their financial means, educational level, place of residence or age.
We want equal access to culture, but we also want to strengthen the social function of culture as a mechanism for social cohesion and solidarity.
The extension of the Culture Card.
Encouraging and attracting members of disadvantaged groups (encouraging reading for non-readers, etc.).
The establishment of cultural facilities for immigrants, returnees, etc.
To the strengthening of the Labour Centre.
The expansion of educational programmes and the encouragement of all cultural institutions to organise similar programmes.
The expansion of the Culture Games.
The generalization of Olympic Education in schools.
The full integration of school libraries, established or to be established, into the life of the school.
Free online access to the actions of the Territory of Culture.
To support young creators through programmes with specific objectives and procedures (grants to artists, funding of exhibition catalogues or performance programmes, etc.).
Strengthening cultural volunteering through programmes with specific objectives (networking, organising exchanges, festivals, etc.).
To encourage popular creativity.
The education of culture and the enrichment of general education with elements of culture are requirements of an era in which culture plays an increasingly important role.
So:
The presence of cultural creativity in schools is systematised.
Educational programmes are being expanded.
Olympic Education is generalized.
Modernising artistic education.
The ever-expanding cultural market is creating new employment opportunities - and interesting and creative ones at that.
New needs, new opportunities, new professions.
It was in this spirit that the effort to bring together culture and the labour market was launched. This is how it is envisaged: The
strengthening of employment in the following areas:
- Protection of cultural heritage (care for new archaeological sites and museums);
- Cultural development of the regions. - the
reduction of cultural inequalities;
- entrepreneurship in the field of culture and technology;
- the development of imprinted cultural activities;
- the promotion of cultural products on the market.
The country's cultural identity is one of its strongest assets on the international stage - especially today, when the role of culture in this field is steadily strengthening.
The crucial issue is the promotion of the country as a modern society, a society capable of standing creatively against the past and developing its present.
Building on the successes of the previous four years, we continue with the systematization of cultural diplomacy through:
- The promotion of dialogue on contemporary Greek creation abroad;
- The promotion and co-production of Greek works abroad;
- Participation in international festivals and exhibitions;
- Exchanges and exhibitions of artworks abroad. - The
invitation of foreign creators or journalists.
- The strengthening of chairs of classical and modern Greek studies in selected countries and regions.
- The flawless completion of the Cultural Olympiad and the cultural events of the Olympic Games.
- The perfect organization of the European Capital of Culture in Patras in 2006.
Our times, with the resurgence of nationalism and religious intolerance, are an ideal time for cultural initiatives - even from a small country with a significant cultural profile.
In this direction, our action both through the European Union and at the supra-European level is very crucial.
So our goals are:
To strengthen the cultural identity of the European Union by:
- Stimulating European policy by overcoming the policy of exclusion. -
Strengthening European creativity;
- Regulating copyright at a pan-European level;
- Cooperating in the protection of cultural heritage.
- Cooperation to stimulate innovation (extension of the Innovation 2000 Initiative (i2i).
The promotion of the Euro-Mediterranean dialogue.
The promotion of intercommunal dialogue in Cyprus.
Promoting dialogue between cultures and religions.
The completion of the major initiatives for the Olympic Games through:
- The establishment of the Cultural Olympiad as a permanent institution, which highlights the cultural dimension of the Olympic Games;
- The establishment of the Olympic Truce as a permanent institution, which highlights peace as the central objective of the Olympic Games.
The 2004 Olympic and Paralympic Games are the great challenge and the great opportunity to prove that the prolonged spring of Greek sport is not a temporary one.
To celebrate the successes of our athletes, who in recent years have made us proud with successes we could hardly imagine.
Greece nowadays has established itself as one of the great sporting powers.
This global recognition is the result of the brilliant performances of Greek athletes and national teams in top international competitions in many sports.
Medals and distinctions in the Olympic Games and in world and European championships justify our sports policy and put Greek sport in the orbit of 2004.
The pre-Olympic teams have been formed, they implement their training programmes with absolute professionalism and with the financial support of the State, which stands close to their preparation and offers all the prerequisites and tools through a broad planning.
Sports federations are further boosted by the Olympic Games with €10 million a year.
The amount added to the regular grants also geared towards the Olympics leads to a total of 69 million euros in appropriations for Greek sport in view of the Games.
At the same time, the Paralympic sports movement is carrying out, with the cooperation of the State, the most complete preparation programme to date.
It benefits from the operation of the unified sports federation for disabled people, which was legislated in 2001 with the care of the Ministry of Culture and enabled the unification and thus the maximisation of the strengths of sports associations for disabled people.
With the "Greece 2004" programme and the ongoing C. Γ. In cooperation with the local and prefectural authorities, we are proceeding with an ambitious programme to create sports infrastructure in the region, with a total budget of b683.7 million.
The Programme is not completed at the end of the Olympic Games.
It will continue for the following years after 2004 in order to give the opportunity to the municipalities that did not complete the technical maturity of the projects in time to take advantage of the benefits and possibilities of the Programme.
Sports development does not stop in 2004, but continues for many years.
The balanced sporting development of all regions of the country.
Each county capital acquires a comprehensive sports infrastructure base.
The sports infrastructure that will be developed in each municipality to become a pole of attraction for youth, to become breeding grounds for young champions, to be the places to host and develop the Olympic ideals and the principles of fair play.
It is the largest in financial terms and the most complete in terms of planning intervention for the creation of new sports infrastructure in the Greek Region.
Major projects of national and upgraded regional importance such as the large indoor gym in Komotini, the indoor gym in Ioannina, the large indoor gym in Heraklion in Alikarnassos and others.
The implementation of a large number of other projects such as open swimming pools - training centres, elastic mats for athletics, ski centres, athlete preparation centres, football pitches, small indoor gyms, gymnasiums and heavy sports halls, nautical facilities.
Already €200 million have been spent on the construction of sports projects, many more than in the period 1996-2000.
A priority, for the period 2004-2008, is the Sport for All programme, based on new sports infrastructure being built throughout the country and the enhanced operation of sports federations and clubs.
We do:
All our activity, both in terms of infrastructure and institutions, to be accessible to everyone regardless of their financial means, educational level, age or place of residence.
Sport to function as a factor of social cohesion and solidarity, as a common property of Greek society without exclusion.
In particular:
The sports projects of all the Municipalities of the country, which have been included in the ELLADA 2004 Programme, are exploited by the local communities.
The mass sport programmes make use of the new sports infrastructures post-Olympic, while they are also directed towards the activities of the "Culture for All" programme.
Through the Mass Sports Programmes, which are addressed to children, women, people with disabilities, adults and are staffed with specialised scientists, enriched with new ideas and with a wider range of beneficiaries by "social group" in cooperation with 650 organisations throughout Greece, the benefits of sport are offered to hundreds of thousands of people.
The overall programme for mass sport has an annual budget of over €11 million.
The sports activities of people with disabilities make use of the infrastructure and interventions made due to the Paralympic Games and the new institutional framework we have created.
The General Secretariats of Sport and Olympic Games are cooperating with the federation and the associations of people with disabilities, supporting their efforts for international competitions and the 2004 Paralympic Games.
There are currently 1,137 sections of athletes in this category with impressive performances in international competitions.
 The nurseries of young sporting talent work in cooperation with the Ministry of Education and the school system as well as with sports clubs and local authorities.
With the Sports Facilitation Classes (SFC) we have given students the opportunity to engage in sports and at the same time get an education.
The organization of major sporting events in our country
We want the dynamics of the 2004 Olympic and Paralympic Games to remain intact.
The Olympic preparation programme of all Federations continues after 2004, for the next summer and winter Olympic Games, the world championships and other major international events.
The Olympic infrastructure allows Greece to function as a host of many major sporting events.
This is linked on the one hand to the utilization of the new sports infrastructure throughout Greece, and on the other hand to the competitive prospects and performance of Greek athletes.
The foundations laid by Law 3057/2002 on Professional Sport have already borne significant fruit: the same line of legality, transparency and continuous monitoring by an independent body, the Professional Sports Commission, continues with the full support and coverage of the State, without discounts and concessions.
The front we have opened against violence in sport remains open and is a top priority.
The aim is to fully activate the prosecution and judicial authorities to enforce the existing - very strict - legislation.
The same applies to the application of international, European and national rules against pharmacodynamics, including all modern methods of intervention (genetic doping, etc.).
With our programme we are creating new jobs in sports facilities across the country.
The utilization of sports facilities through sports tourism activities, in turn, creates employment opportunities in the productive sectors of the region as the tourist traffic is stimulated and maintained for more months.
We aim to attract the new scientific staff that is currently offered by the country's Universities and that has gained significant experience from the organization of the 2004 Olympic and Paralympic Games.
We entrust the management of the new Olympic facilities to scientists who have studied sports administration at the country's Universities, restoring in the best possible way a substantial and two-way relationship between the Ministries of Culture and National Education.
We support the sports activities of all the TEEFAs in the country and we give special dynamics to the new Department of Sports Management of the University of Peloponnese.
We continue with more resources and the use of new sports facilities, the main pillars of the National Sports Development Plan:
The edifice of Greek sport is solidly founded on the club.
The development and flourishing of our sport owes much to this cell of our sport, but also to the invaluable contribution of volunteer administrators.
The financial support of the clubs by the GGA is given and decisive.
The cost of supporting club sport is €20 million.
In competitive sport, the main priority is the establishment of permanent cooperation with specific directions of the state with the federations of various sports.
It supports scientific assistance, the presence and participation of representatives in international sports bodies, the generous financial assistance of the federations, the Olympic preparation.
In the area of scientific support, the cooperation of federations and clubs with ergonomists, psychologists, dieticians, orthopaedists, physiotherapists and other specialist scientists is encouraged, so that athletes, with the help of coaches, can achieve maximum results.
At the same time, with the creation and operation of the internationally recognised anti-doping control laboratory centre at the O.A.K.A., medical aids are strictly controlled in order to protect the process that leads to the achievement of high athletic goals.
Competitive sport is further supported by the Ergonomics and Injury Rehabilitation Centre, which is being constructed within the framework of "ELLADA 2004" in Komotini, as a twin infrastructure of the corresponding Centre in Athens.
It is supported even more by the new sports infrastructure that is being constructed and that enables the preparation of national teams of all sports without obstacles and in accordance with their competitive planning and competitive obligations.
The total amount of subsidies to the Federations for the period 2001-2004 amounted to 205 million euros, which is an impressive first for the world.
To support competitive sport, we introduced sport incentives.
The successful result is rewarded by the state and in the faces of athletes and coaches with sporting incentives, which provide for the champions who excel, financial rewards that reach the amount of 3 million euros and professional rehabilitation in the Armed Forces, the Security Forces, but also admission to higher educational institutions, as well as recruitment in the public sector.
In schools and the Armed Forces, in cooperation with the Ministry of National Defence and the Ministry of Education, there are committees that plan and take action to provide effective support for student and military athletes.
The financial and building investments in sport and the National Sports Action Plan are the key elements of our sports policy that have led Greek sport to a prominent international position and ranked it among the major global sports powers.
The prospects are extremely promising for an equally impressive continuation of the great challenge of the 2004 Olympic Games.
Greek athletics will make an impressive presence by running faster than ever before.
Greek society today demands a radical renewal in the country's politics.
It faces the historic challenge of closing the cycle of post-communism once and for all and entering the new era:
to guarantee an open society with equal opportunities for all citizens, without discrimination and exclusion.
To ensure to every citizen the effective exercise of his/her rights and enjoyment of his/her freedoms, with a sense of responsibility towards society.
To redefine the autonomy of society, the limits of the market, the role of the state, in the era of globalisation and the knowledge society.
To claim a leading role for the country, its regions and its citizens in the European Union.
To liberate the individual strengths of each citizen and the collective forces of society, offering conditions of meritocracy.
To guarantee, in a European security and justice society open to the world, equality with freedom, autonomy with solidarity.
We are determined to meet this historic challenge.
It is a challenge that we do not want and should not postpone.
It is a challenge in which we will succeed.
To respond to this challenge, it is not enough to just fix some policies or fill in legislative gaps.
When our goal is a new political culture, the scope of the necessary reform, the depth of the necessary cuts, the intensity of the effort required can only come from society as a whole, but also from each citizen.
Only on the basis of a broader consensus, only with active legitimacy and no longer with passive acceptance, can Greek society respond to the historical challenge of the new era.
Only if the citizen acquires the sense of belonging to a cohesive, democratic and open society will he or she identify with a goal that embodies and transcends the personal aspirations of each of us.
Only if the citizen becomes a participant in the formulation of collective objectives, in the formulation, implementation and control of public policies, will he or she assume his or her responsibility.
Only the participation of the citizen, his conviction that the renewal of politics is his business, his belief that we can all succeed together, will allow a governance worthy of the visions and goals of our society.
That is why we propose a new project of Participatory Governance to the Greek Citizen.
Participation does not just mean simply expressing a preference in collective decision-making processes such as elections.
It is the safeguarding of the citizen's ability - without any exclusion or discrimination - to form and express his political views without hindrance and to seek, with the means provided by the state, to make them the content of the state's decisions.
This means broadening the forms of citizen participation beyond elections: modern forms of consultation, elements of direct democracy, referendums using the potential of new technology in the direction of e-government.
It means the co-responsibility of every citizen.
A precondition for participatory and accountable governance is transparency and publicity in government action.
Its guarantee is to ensure free access of all citizens to all necessary information, by imposing extensive publicity on the administration, using all conventional and electronic means.
At the core of democratic governance is the principle that every state institution is accountable for respecting the rules governing its action, not only in the abstract before the law but also before every citizen.
Only on the basis of a universally accepted understanding of the obligation of continuous accountability of all state officials to citizens can effective evaluation be ensured and, above all, corruption be tackled.
Ensuring participatory governance that guarantees the accountability of officials in conditions of transparency requires that decisions are discussed and taken as close as possible to the citizen.
It requires the transfer of the widest possible powers and resources to local government and at the same time the radical decentralisation of state functions to regional bodies, when these are not necessarily exercised at the national level.
It runs through all policies at every stage of the policy process - preparation, decision-making, implementation - evaluation and monitoring) and at every level of administration - municipal, regional, national.
It combines both development and redistributive objectives, sustainable development with the protection of the natural and cultural environment, social justice and citizens' control over decisions, combining the universality of policy measures with specificity to the needs of the citizen.
It is Progressive Governance, the answer to neo-liberalism, to the alienation of the citizen from politics, to the deregulation of markets, to the commercialisation and shrinking of public services, to the weakening of social policies.
It is implemented through coordinated Public Dialogue and institutionally organized Social Consultation, with the search for compositions and consensus in solving problems and conflicts, and has as its ultimate goal the effectiveness of the policies in place, the expansion of political legitimacy and the empowerment of the citizen.
The renewal of the political system.
To consolidate transparency and radically tackle corruption.
To a new parliamentary culture.
In an executive government, focused on strategic planning.
In a Public Administration committed to results for the citizen.
To a bold regional reconstruction and strengthening of self-government.
An upgrading and strengthening of the independent authorities.
Improving the administration of justice.
Putting citizens at the heart of policy at local, regional and national level by creating institutions of consultation and synergy between public sector, private sector and civil society.
The aim is the effective participation of every citizen in the formulation, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of decisions.
This innovative institution of consultation with civil society will involve citizens, selected by representative criteria and by lot.
The aim is to improve the content of public decisions, with the administration's obligation to discuss and mature proposals that require broad social consensus and acceptance.
Each Social Consultation Assembly will also be open to every citizen to submit their views, with full information material provided.
This flexible institution, which has been tried and tested in the legislative processes of organisations such as the EU and national administrations, is integrated into the modern administrative process, providing an effective forum for intervention in civil society.
We establish procedures for the participation of institutions and individual citizens in the preparation of budgets at national, regional and municipal level, with the aim of co-management and co-responsibility of the state and society in economic and social matters.
Investments, expenditures and other related issues are decided through dialogue with all social actors and groups affected by the decisions.
The aim is to take decisions in which all partners involved are involved and all are accountable for their implementation.
Strengthening the Economic and Social Committee (ESC) as a body for social dialogue and establishing an ESC at regional level.
Establishing the obligation for the government at central and regional level to obtain prior consultation from the social partners before taking measures in the context of its economic and social policy.
Mandatory consultation with civil society bodies - non-governmental organisations active in the field of the administrative action in question from a list of non-governmental organisations kept in each Ministry and Region and updated under its responsibility.
The list is compulsory for all NGOs with jointly decided specifications.
Pilot implementation in the municipalities of the country of local referendums with the aim of establishing them with binding force for the decisions of the organs of Primary Self-Government and for issues within their competence.
For important issues concerning policy choices, a special webpage will be created on the upgraded Government hub, where a complete information file will be provided to inform citizens about existing options, their positive and negative points and citizens will be invited to answer a questionnaire explaining their position.
Their results will be evaluated alongside other forms of social consultation.
Strengthening the existing National Councils with the necessary infrastructure and the establishment of the National Council for Institutions and Transparency and the National Council for Democracy and Decentralisation.
The National Councils will have an advisory role and will propose binding policy frameworks to the government.
Together with the introduction of new participatory institutions, we are reforming the structures of representative democracy.
Decisively addressing the widespread suspicion of the citizen about the dependence of political staff on vested interests.
Preventive and repressive fight against any possibility of unfair or illegal financing of parties and parliamentary candidates.
The Committee for the Control of Funding of Parties and Candidates is strengthened to ensure effective control.
Dialogue between political forces to upgrade the functioning of the parties: consolidating intra-party democracy, ensuring equality in competition between parties and the autonomy of parties from the State.
Respect for the rules of operation of the media, the "Fourth Estate", is an existential condition for the smooth functioning of the democratic constitution.
Our aim, through processes of social consultation and consensus, is to complete the institutional framework within which they operate and to enforce their strict observance in practice.
The National Broadcasting Council (NBC) is strengthened to meet its critical role in the functioning of the political system, with a review of its composition after a dialogue.
The aim is that the members selected by the Parliament should not result from party or "guild" suggestions, but should be generally acceptable and their selection should result from exhaustive and detailed public hearings.
Its independence is consolidated and its infrastructure is strengthened.
On the initiative of the E.S.R., a public consultation is organised between representatives of political forces, journalists and civil society for the upgrading of the quality of political and social dialogue in the media.
Regulating the frequencies of terrestrial radio and television networks, both national and local, and completing the licensing process, in strict compliance with the applicable national and international framework.
A new clear legislative framework to normalise the business landscape in the new media space - satellite, internet, digital discs.
The public service broadcasters will complete their administrative, financial and programming restructuring programme.
Adapting the corporate framework to developments, ensuring the regulation of the public-private coexistence framework.
Objective 1: Eliminate corruption hotspots through preventive and repressive institutional interventions.
We are committed to a zero-tolerance policy towards corruption.
The rules and principles are there to be applied absolutely and without exception.
Our aim is to establish a universal obligation of accountability: every state institution becomes accountable for respecting the rules governing its actions before the law and the citizen.
With institutional interventions to eliminate hotbeds of corruption and repressive, control and, where necessary, criminal measures.
A supreme participatory body that designs and monitors the implementation of national anti-corruption action plans.
All political forces, social and economic actors as well as NGOs participate and are represented in this body.
The National Council is linked to the Parliament's Committee on Institutions and Transparency, which is upgraded and supported in its work.
These plans, which will be the product of dialogue within the National Council for Institutions and Transparency.
Strengthening of control mechanisms with preventive actions, strengthening of the Court of Auditors. Establish a body of Special Financial Inspectors, following the French model, with responsibility for tackling corruption and financial crime across the whole spectrum of the wider public sector.
Reconstitute and upgrade the special inspectorates that operate independently.
Coordination of the Independent Authorities (IAs) with the courts and in particular the prosecution authorities.
Strengthening and specialising their research and control responsibilities.
Strengthen the independent functioning of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Competition Commission.
Creation, after study and dialogue, of social control institutions at the local level (e.g. prefecture level) in order to organise the public dialogue of the local society to tackle corruption.
Representatives of civil society, local government and local stakeholders participate.
Social audit institutions contribute to informing the citizen and develop proposals for anti-corruption measures.
Objective 2: Transparency in the relationship between the political system and the economy
We create conditions of absolute transparency in the relationship between politicians and the private economy, through consensual procedures of the political forces.
The aim is to restore citizens' trust in the political world and its independence from the private economy.
The Government and the Parliament publish all bills and amendments on a special website.
Bills and amendments are presented in simple language that is understandable to all and citizens' views can be recorded.
The institutional framework will be completed after a comprehensive evaluation of its operation in practice.
The aim is full transparency of the income and expenditure of both parties and candidates, with respect for the principle of equal opportunities.
Strengthening of the National Broadcasting Council (NCR) and full respect for its independence to guarantee respect for the rules and control the influence of private interests, through the media, on political life.
Objective 3: transparency and strict control of public procurement
We are adopting measures to ensure full transparency in every financial transaction of the public sector.
We introduce independent control mechanisms and strict repressive measures.
Development and full operation of the National Electronic Public Procurement System, based on transparent supplier registers, in accordance with EU specifications.
This system will ensure to the greatest extent possible that the relevant procedures are handled objectively and expeditiously and in full transparency.
Individualisation of responsibility and clear separation of responsibilities between those responsible at each level of the public administration.
Stricter penalties for mismanagement of public money.
A universal obligation to publish on the internet all acts of all public bodies relating to supplies or services to the public and concessions (contracts, tenders of all kinds, not only notices but also tenders, minutes of committees).
Failure to disclose shall entail the annulment of the acts concerned.
Establishment of multiple audits, regular reporting and codes of conduct for both contractors and evaluators.
Control of the secret funds of the Ministries, by a special Committee of Senior State Officials.
Change of the institutional framework and approval by the Parliament of the armament programs, large procurements and contracting of the National Defence Forces, as is the case for the rest of the public procurement.
Objective 4: Transparency and strict control throughout the administration.
Unhindered access for citizens to all information.
Institutional interventions ensure that every citizen has effective access to all information concerning the relationship between the administration and the governed.
Strengthening control mechanisms of public administration and local government.
Strengthening the institution of the Inspector General of Public Administration in all public services and ministries, regions and local government.
The citizens' right of access to administrative data becomes an active obligation of the administration, which is obliged to make public, through special electronic databases, all administrative data which it classifies as non-confidential and non-infringing personal data (minutes of meetings, circulars, decisions, authorisations).
Stricter penalties are foreseen in cases of bribery of public officials, both for those who corrupt and those who corrupt.
Completion of the introduction of the double-entry accounting system in the whole range of the public sector (local authorities, prefectures, public bodies, insurance institutions, hospitals, etc.).
Transformation of the General Secretariat for Information Systems into a National Informatics Centre (NIC).
It undertakes the promotion of compatibility and the organic interconnection of the IT systems of all institutions and organisations of the wider public sector (including insurance institutions, mortgage offices, notary offices, etc.) in order to expand the possibility of cross-referencing data for the better service of the citizen, the fight against tax evasion and tax evasion and the support of the government, the Parliament and other bodies with statistical data for the formulation of policies.
Objective 1: Transparency in parliamentary work and citizen participation
Strengthening the credibility of Parliament in the minds of Greek citizens is a condition for the survival of democracy.
We promote it through transparency and citizen engagement measures, before and during the legislative process.
We are committed to the strict application of the rule of not including provisions unrelated to the subject matter of the bills in order to streamline legislation and enhance legal certainty.
Publication of Bills and Amendments
The Government and the Parliament publish all bills and amendments in a timely manner on a special website.
Bills and amendments are presented in simple language that is understandable to all and citizens are given the opportunity to express their views.
The publication of bills and amendments will follow a specific format and will specify how the measures adopted and the implementation of public policies will be implemented, the expected costs and how they will be covered, the positive and possible negative effects on society, the economy, the environment, etc.
This will facilitate public consultation on the introduced regulations.
Public consultation before any legislative initiative
Before the legislative processing of government initiatives, the plans under discussion will be placed on the website of the competent Ministry, so that every citizen, electronically through his/her personal computer, the public computers of the CCPs and through a form submitted to the CCPs, can express opinions, judgments and comments.
In order to fully inform citizens, the plans will be accompanied by relevant information material so that everyone is able to form a complete picture and form an informed opinion.
A special mechanism will be set up at the Secretariat of the Council of Ministers for the analysis, systematisation and inclusion in the draft laws of the proposals submitted in the framework of the public social dialogue.
Documentation of consultation procedures
The introduction of a draft law in the Council of Ministers and its approval as a legislative proposal of the Government in the National Delegation requires the documentation of the consultation procedures with the social partners and civil society that must have been carried out beforehand.
It includes all the objections and arguments raised.
Transparent and controlled amendments
To ensure transparency and the quality of amendments, an obligation is introduced for the Member to inform the CoR about each proposed amendment and its prior legislative and technical processing by the "scientific unit" of the CoR, which documents in particular that it does not substitute the administration.
At the same time, an obligation to document the public consultation of stakeholders in society is introduced and is now mandatory.
Representation Charter
Establish the Charter of Representation through an open, public debate to define the role of parliamentarians and the rights of citizens.
Develop quantitative and qualitative data on representation in our time and record the rights of citizens vis-à-vis their representatives.
Tackling phenomena of inadequate representation of the needs of local communities and developing new and more direct ways of communicating with MEPs.
2nd objective: Upgrading the Parliament, the Parliamentary Groups and the MP
Strengthening the institution of Parliament and the work of the Parliamentary Groups and MPs, as well as ensuring the quality of legislative work are first priority objectives.
Strengthening the scientific support of the Parliament with qualified staff and its ability to call on external experts and technical and knowledge-based organisations, both Greek and European, to support the parliamentary work.
Activation and upgrading of the Parliamentary Group (P.G.)
The C.O. cannot simply function as a mechanism for uncritically voting for or against bills and legislative proposals.
Its stance must be the result of a dialogue among its members, because only then is it the product of a democratic process and respect for the majority and contributes to the credibility of the political system and the effective legitimacy of its decisions.
Scientific support unit for each C.O.
The autonomy and upgrading of the C.O. also means a decisive strengthening of the C.O. with partners and technocrats who will facilitate its work.
We propose the creation of a support mechanism for each CSO, distinct from the associates of individual MPs or the support services of the Parliament.
Evaluation of Parliamentary Work
Annual evaluation, using modern management methods, of the performance of parliamentary work.
The evaluation will take into account all parameters relating to the production and control of the legislative work.
The project will be managed annually by the Bureau of the Parliament.
The results of the assessment will be made public in order to keep citizens better informed.
Codification of legislation
Promote the codification of legislation to make it simpler and not add unnecessary administrative burdens on citizens and businesses.
Under the supervision of the Central Codification Committee, 19 prescribed Codification Committees are established in respective key areas of legislation.
Objective 1: Radical decentralisation of powers to the region
We are moving towards a radical decentralisation of state powers on the basis of the region and the abolition of redundant administrative levels and structures that increase complexity.
We are drastically reducing bureaucracy and centralisation.
The central state retains only its executive, strategic character.
Accessibility
No competence that can be exercised at local or regional level is left to the central administration.
Radical decentralisation
Radical decentralisation of responsibilities, while transferring the necessary resources.
Establish new incentives to address the staffing needs of the Regions.
Objective 2: Restriction and rationalisation of the Government and Public Administration
The radical decentralisation of responsibilities to the Regions and the concentration of the Government on its executive - strategic role at national, European and international level are served by a radically renewed form of Government.
PROPOSALS - MEASURES Council of Ministers
The Council of Ministers is reduced in its composition and acquires an executive character.
A Strategic Planning and Efficiency Unit in each Ministry.
Each Ministry has its own Strategic Planning and Efficiency Unit.
It thus acquires a "think tank", in line with the needs for a forward-looking and proactive public policy.
The Unit functions as an internal advisory mechanism, aiming to respond dynamically to the rapid developments of society and the knowledge economy.
At the same time, the Ministry gains the ability to monitor and regularly control the implementation of the predefined objectives and to measure efficiency and productivity.
The Unit is staffed with highly qualified personnel.
Allocation of public resources
Clarification and rationalisation of the criteria for the allocation of public resources to public bodies.
To this end, a Government Strategic Plan is formulated, through political and social consultation processes, with hierarchical sectoral and regional priorities and costing of relevant actions per sector.
Public or private legal entities
Evaluation as to the necessity of existence and the quality of service provision of all legal entities under public or private law.
Accelerate further abolition or merger policies.
Objective 3: Horizontal and integrated governance with effective coordination
Integrated and horizontal governance ensures that the cost of public policy is reduced and that it is geared towards the real challenges of modern times.
Establishment of new Interministerial Committees
These Committees will be the main lever for political steering and horizontal coordination of public actors and the integrated implementation of public policies.
The Interministerial Committees are supported by the General Secretariat of the Council of Ministers and are responsible for coordinating and monitoring the implementation of the horizontal policies and measures co-decided in the Committees.
The Interministerial Committees thus constitute an effective network for government policy planning and coordination.
Upgrading the General Secretariat of the Council of Ministers
Upgrading the role of the General Secretariat of the Council of Ministers as the body that supports the coordination of government work, control and implementation of legislative work.
The upgraded General Secretariat undertakes the definition and planning of the Government's policy initiatives and coordinates the process of drafting and implementing legislative and executive texts.
Strategic Planning Unit
Establishment of a Strategic Planning Unit, which recommends to the Prime Minister and the Government comprehensive, horizontal strategic programmes on major public policy issues.
Its aim is to strengthen the Government's capacity for long-term planning on complex problems.
It is linked to the respective strategic units of the Ministries.
Objective 4: Effective government and administration in the European Union The
formulation of a coherent European government policy and the effective promotion of national interests in the institutions of the European Union are complex and demanding objectives.
To achieve them, it is necessary to streamline the European functioning of the Government and the Administration.
General Secretariat of the Council of Ministers
Strengthening the institutions of the Government responsible for the formulation and implementation of European policy.
Special role of the Secretariat of the Council of Ministers in the coordination and monitoring of the policy formulation processes and the obligations arising from the implementation of the policies of the European Union.
Strengthening inter-ministerial and inter-ministerial institutions and procedures for policy coordination and negotiating tactics.
Role of Parliament, Regions, Local Government
Strengthening the role of the Parliament, the regions and local government in the shaping of Greek European policy.
Civil society
Strengthening the role of civil society in shaping Greek positions.
Support for their activation in the framework of the relevant European organisations.
Greek-speaking staff in the Union
Utilization of the Greek-speaking staff of the EU institutions and the formulation of a coherent policy for the development of the Greek and Greek-speaking element in the European and wider international institutions.
Incentives to employees
Establishment of incentives (moral, financial, counting towards promotion) for administrators representing the country in the EU institutions.
Objective 1: Transparent and accountable public administration
A citizen-oriented public administration requires transparent, accessible and accountable procedures.
The audit aims to ensure the simplification, speeding up and economy of procedures and to minimise the burden on citizens.
Drafting a Public Administration Charter, accessible to all, clarifying the identity, function and distribution of responsibilities in the public sector.
Quality control of administrative procedures
All administrative procedures established by the individual departments to implement the legislation under their responsibility shall be evaluated by a specialised body.
The evaluation is carried out with the participation of all stakeholders (citizens' associations, representation of productive groups, NGOs, etc.).
Each procedure, once checked and agreed, is standardised with a specific code number and published on a dedicated website.
Thus, each interested party can check whether the documents and actions requested by the individual services are as required.
If this is not the case, it may refer the matter to the specialised body which will decide on the appropriateness of the procedures followed.
This ensures the adequacy and homogeneity of procedures across all similar services.
Named officials in transactions
Civil servants become fully branded in every transaction with citizens which takes on a more personal-human character.
Compensation of the citizen
Establishment of strict objective conditions for the satisfaction of citizens' requests (e.g. deadlines), the violation of which automatically gives rise to a right to pre-established compensation without the need to resort to any other mechanism.
Presumption of confidence in favour of the citizen
Participation of candidates in all recruitment procedures without supporting documents - the information they declare in their application will be accepted as true.
The submission of supporting documents will be made only by the candidates to be appointed at a time to be specified in the notice of competition.
Speed up the process of recognition of foreign qualifications.
Abolition of the relevant procedure for qualifications from recognised EU universities
:Efficient and accessible public administration
The public administration fully exploits the potential of new technologies and the institution of Citizen Service Centres, which are evolving into exclusive points of contact between the citizen and the administration, in order to ensure the rapid, efficient and accessible provision of administrative services to the citizen.
Digitisation of administrative procedures
Electronic processing of requests and communication between relevant services in order to minimize the waiting time of citizens and their direct access to all public information on the processing of procedures and the development of entrepreneurship.
Ensuring Administrative Interoperability
Direct internal movement of documents between the various services so that the citizen is not burdened with the filing of applications to various services for the collection of required documents located in various services.
The public administration will seek the information it has produced, without obliging the citizen to seek it.
Digitally shared databases are being developed for use by multiple services to ensure the joint use of data and to avoid the burden of continuous and repeated submission of data by citizens.
Citizens will not have to constantly resubmit data that they have already submitted and therefore are available to the public administration.
Simplification against red tape
Radical simplification of procedures, abolition of "symbols of bureaucracy" such as photocopies, stamps and signatures and attachments.
Rationalisation and systematisation of the circulars into comprehensive reference circulars, so that they constitute a safe guide for the citizen and the administration.
Objective systems
Use of new technologies to introduce objective systems across the whole spectrum of public administration.
Citizen Service Centres
Wider use and strengthening of the institution of Citizen Service Centres:
- Establishment of new centres in accordance with the population of each district;
- Expansion of the cases to be handled by the centres, especially in areas such as tax, licensing, social welfare and property;
- Equipping the centres with public computers through which every citizen can be informed and submit requests, opinions and comments on the operation of the administration.
Support is provided in each KEP, by specialised staff, to citizens who are not familiar with new technologies in order to search for administrative information of interest to them and to submit applications;
- Establish the possibility of receiving electronic and telephone requests and queries from citizens in order to relieve congestion in the offices (strengthening of the 1502 citizens' line - Administration from Home).
The main objective is the gradual transformation of the KEPs into centres providing integrated services to citizens and by 2008 the KEPs will be exclusively contact points for the administrative service of the citizen;
- Electronic connection of the KEPs with all services.
Immediate issuance and circulation of interim and final administrative documents via the internet to ensure increased speed, automatic archiving and retrieval, the possibility of specialized document search with a variety of criteria and automatic extraction of statistics and monitoring of indicators.
Objective 3: Goal-oriented administration, with evaluation of its performance
We want an administration geared towards the achievement of predefined objectives and the achievement of immediate, concrete and measurable results.
We want the objectives and performance of each service to be set out in a simple, clear and measurable way.
At all hierarchical levels, Management will be committed to the implementation of specific actions with predefined quantitative and qualitative performance indicators.
Restriction of the General Directorates of the Ministries, Directorates and Departments while strengthening them.
Administrative Effectiveness Unit
Establishment of an Administrative Efficiency Unit, under the General Secretariat of the Council of Ministers, to promote the principles of administration throughout the public sector, through instructions and coordination of the executives (general secretaries or others) who undertake administration in each ministry, legal entities of public law and other public sector bodies.
Recording of objectives for each organisational unit (department or directorate) of the administration and effective evaluation of the administration through objective programmes for the achievement of objectives for the administrative function (e.g. number of citizens' requests dealt with, response times, reports from independent administrative authorities, in particular the Ombudsman and other ombudsmen).
External evaluators
External evaluators (either specialised bodies or seconded employees) for the work of each organisational unit of the Ministries and Public Law Entities.
Evaluation is carried out regularly, based on clear scientific criteria and is crucial for the further development of staff.
Continuous evaluation
Systematic and continuous evaluation of public policies and the operation of services, using all available modern means such as "panels" and barometers of citizens, electronic referendums and polls through the CCP, etc.
The results of such evaluations are made public on the website of the government and the relevant bodies.
They are taken into account after being processed by the Administrative Efficiency Unit and the Cabinet Secretariat to improve the policies in place.
4th objective: Human resources development and evaluation
We want a dynamic and merit-based system of recruitment and effective evaluation of employees and services.
A system that motivates and reinforces professionalism, encourages creative action and serves the needs of each service.
Modernising and strengthening the APSEP to improve the speed and quality of its work.
Bringing under its jurisdiction, either directly or by controlling the recruitment procedures of cases not currently covered.
Senior civil servant
In order for Ministries to become effective executive policy-making mechanisms, training programmes are introduced from the recruitment stage and onwards to strengthen the executive role of officials and their role in policy making.
We develop the civil servant with executive skills and corresponding qualifications (knowledge of foreign languages, use of computers, further training at home and abroad) and overcome the logic of the civil servant - processor.
Training - Evaluation - Progression
Induction and continuous training programmes are linked to career plans for civil servants, contributing to an objective way of assessing and promoting staff and linking the development of human resources to the improvement of the functioning of the service.
Management training emphasises the familiarisation of employees with the methods of targeted and measurable management, such as cost-benefit analysis of management action, strategic and operational planning, quality management, project management, etc.
Evolution of the performance basis
Hierarchical progression of the employee based on his/her performance in relation to the achievement of the objectives of the service.
Establish objective criteria and evaluation based on points and transparent tests for the selection of Heads of Unit.
Interministerial staff branch
Adopting a system for the selection of senior managers, based on modern methods and practices already applied in private institutions and public administrations in EU countries.
Establishment of a single branch of Interministerial Executives for the entire Public Administration from which senior executives will be drawn and which will be fed exclusively by the National School of Public Administration.
Open procedure for senior posts
The selection of staff for senior management positions is made through an open competitive procedure in which staff from other services or the private sector can also participate.
The competition is practical and tests your general managerial knowledge and skills as well as your experience in this management field.
National School of Public Administration
Faster progression of National School of Public Administration graduates and a significant increase in the percentage of National School of Public Administration graduates occupying mandatory positions of department heads, directors and general managers, with the ultimate goal of developing high-level administrative leadership.
1st objective: Complete decentralisation with new Regions
Dialogue on the creation of new Regions to which responsibilities, resources, staff and supervision of institutions will be transferred, so that central ministries are reduced to their national-executive role.
PROPOSALS AND MEASURES
New, smaller and stronger Regions
Through dialogue with all relevant stakeholders, we are proceeding to reconstruct and reform the administrative division of the country by creating new, smaller, economically and socially stronger regions, in the framework of which those inter-district or special decentralised services that are currently outside the administrative regions will be included.
The dialogue will be completed by summer 2004 at the latest.
Our final decision will be communicated to the competent institutions of the European Union in autumn 2004.
Its implementation, in accordance with the current regulation, will start from the beginning of 2006.
This timetable allows us to almost complete the 3rd CSF on the basis of the existing structures and the 4th CSF to be designed and implemented on the basis of the new stronger and larger regions.
New distribution of responsibilities and services, decisive improvement of coordination and speed of administrative work, elimination of redundant administrative levels and structures that increase complexity.
A key objective is also to achieve transparency and clear political accountability for the policies pursued in the Region.
Metropolitan Regions - Island country
Special governance schemes and special functions will be provided for the two major metropolitan regions of the country, Athens and Thessaloniki, as well as for the island country.
Regional Economic and Social Committees
Regional Economic and Social Committees are set up.
This body will include representatives of the state and local government, the private sector, as well as the social sector and civil society.
This will ensure a systematic and transparent dialogue on key development and other policy options, harness the knowledge and experience of actors outside the public administration, mobilise all the Region's forces, promote consensus and ensure the acceptance of decisions in order to facilitate and accelerate their implementation.
National Development Plan - Regional Development Plans - Tool for the 4th CIP.
An Inter-ministerial Committee for Regional Planning and Development is set up to formulate a National Development Plan and its regional branches, in order to coordinate the investments currently funded by the various Ministries.
Ministries are required to formulate, under the responsibility of the Strategic Planning and Efficiency Units, development plans for their area of responsibility.
Through public consultation processes at national, regional and local level, the Regional Development Plans are finalised and integrated into a single National Development Plan.
The respective Programme Agreements signed between the government representative in the Region and the elected representatives of the Primary and Secondary Authorities will incorporate all sources of funding, from the European Union, the central state and the Local Government.
The first programming period will coincide with the implementation of the new administrative structure of the country and will constitute the programmatic and operational tool of the 4th CIP.
Objective 2: Functional modernization and development of the Secondary Administration
After a dialogue with all relevant stakeholders, the development of the Secondary Administration will be studied and decided.
It will be based on the principles of direct citizen participation, proximity to the citizen in the delivery of services and clear political accountability and synergy of policies at all levels of government, in line with the European needs of the country.
PROPOSALS - MEASURES
Upgrading Secondary Administration
Secondary administration is being upgraded through the dialogue on the reconstruction of the regions.
The dialogue will be completed by summer 2004 at the latest.
Our final decision will be communicated to the competent institutions of the European Union in autumn 2004.
Its implementation, in accordance with the current regulation, will start from the beginning of 2006.
The upgraded Secondary Self-Government will be able to assume important responsibilities and powers as well as to have its own local revenues, in accordance with the new provisions of the Constitution.
Based on the principle of proximity to the citizen, a system of internal decentralisation of institutions and services will be established.
Special structures and regulations will also apply here in the large metropolitan and island regions of the country.
New responsibilities
The new responsibilities of the upgraded Secondary Administration will mainly concern the following areas:
Economic Development.
Spatial Planning.
Environment.
Social Policies (Education, Health, Welfare, Sport, Culture).
Transportation.
Civil Protection and Security.
Objective 3: Direct citizen participation, administrative modernisation, new resources and competences in Primary Administration
New impetus to democratise primary self-government, direct citizen participation.
Strengthening municipalities with new resources and responsibilities, as well as their administrative modernisation.
PROPOSALS - MEASURES
New responsibilities, resources and staff
Primary local authorities are taking on a number of new responsibilities (especially on the islands) with a corresponding transfer of resources and staff.
Responsibility for the selection of staff and for the use of local tax capacity is gradually being transferred to municipalities and communities.
Strengthening the autonomy of resources in local authorities with emphasis on responsiveness and redistribution of resources at local level to support disadvantaged areas and social groups and strata.
Personnel and financial management is further modernised, staffing levels are upgraded, efficiency and evaluation indicators are introduced.
Significant increase of qualified staff for local government through the programmes of the National Centre for Public Administration.
Inter-municipal partnerships
Functional modernization of the large municipalities and further strengthening and encouragement of the Kapodistrian municipalities for further mergers and inter-municipal cooperation (sympolitia).
Transparency
It tackles the complexity of legislation, simplifies procedures while ensuring respect for the rule of law, the rule of law and the service of the citizen.
The publicity and transparency of municipal action, financial management and decisions of the municipal bodies is enhanced by introducing new obligations for reporting and informing citizens as well as the use of new technologies.
A more proportional electoral system
The electoral system becomes more proportional, the institutional role of the municipal or community opposition and the local representative body (municipal or community council) is upgraded.
New institutions for citizen participation
New institutions of participatory democracy are introduced, such as the Social Consultative Assembly, local referendums, foreigners' councils.
VII. UPGRADING OF INDEPENDENT AUTHORITIES
Objective 1: Strengthening, reforming competences and decentralisation of services
The Independent Authorities, following their constitutional safeguarding, have emerged in our constitution as a key institution guaranteeing the rule of law, protecting citizens' rights and ensuring the proper functioning of markets and professional sectors.
This crucial contribution to the democratic governance of the country requires the strengthening of the already existing SAs and their connection with the Parliament, with the enhancement of their powers and decentralisation of their exercise.
PROPOSALS - ACTIONS Extension of competences
Extension of the existing competences of the SAs to fully cover the scope of their mission, through parliamentary procedures to check the feasibility of the extension.
Decentralisation of services
Decentralisation of the services provided for better access to them for every citizen (e.g. local information, contact and complaint offices).
Coordination of action
Coordination of the action of the SAs by setting up SA coordinating bodies or possibly by consolidating authorities whose regulatory scope is now tending to overlap.
Research - audit responsibilities
Strengthening and specialising their research and control responsibilities.
Civil society
Mandatory consultative participation of civil society institutions in their operation, while establishing criteria to ensure the quality of representativeness in participation.
Staffing
Rapid procedures for staffing them with qualified personnel in accordance with the procedures laid down.
Participation in a Public Consultation
The SAs participate in an advisory capacity in the design and formulation of public policies in their area of competence.
To this end, they are invited to the institutions and public consultation processes.
Reports in Parliament
The SAIs submit annual reports to Parliament.
A detailed evaluation of their work shall be carried out in a special procedure to be provided for in the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament.
Objective 2: Ensuring independence and accountability
Highlighting the advantages of the impartiality of the Independent Authorities requires that they be consolidated and enshrined in those Authorities that are still incomplete.
PROPOSALS - MEASURES Independence
Strengthening the independence and defining the supervision, where it still exists, of the relevant ministries.
Fiscal autonomy
Ensuring full fiscal autonomy from the public administration.
We propose the creation of a common funding code - for all SAs - from public revenues (e.g. fines imposed by them or fees paid by the regulated sector).
Personal independence of members
Strengthening the personal independence of members and, in particular, of the officials who actually undertake the investigation by substantially increasing their salaries while strengthening the disqualifications and immunities.
It is proposed to stipulate that members of the AAs must provide strict guarantees of objectivity and of not deriving any present or future benefit from their participation in the Authority.
Full independence of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Competition Commission.
Check
The criticality of the A.A. for the constitution also requires that their control be ensured both by the courts and, above all, by the democratically elected parliament.
Update
Informing the citizen about the responsibilities and operation of the SAs.
Objective 3: Creation of new independent authorities
Their citizen-friendliness, their disengagement from political power and its weightings, their distance from established administrative practices and perceptions and the effectiveness of their action, suggest the use of the SAs, where specific citizen rights are at stake or issues of supervision of a liberalised market arise, in order to avoid the effects of neoliberal deregulation.
Given, however, that policy-making belongs to the elected legislator and the responsible government and in order to avoid the phenomena of technocratic governance, it is necessary to establish criteria for the feasibility of their extension, such as, for example, the particular public interest, the vital rights of the citizen, the need for long-term - beyond terms of office and persons - planning.
Objective 1: speed and transparency in the administration of justice
Strengthening citizens' confidence in the justice system by further facilitating access to justice and speeding up its delivery, while upholding human rights.
PROPOSALS - MEASURES Out-of-court dispute resolution
Expanding out-of-court dispute resolution by introducing alternative ways of resolving private law disputes and mediation as a result of the free will of the parties, the creation of a Mediation Service in each Court of First Instance (or Bar Association) and the introduction of the institution of "Criminal Conciliation", on the basis of specific and strict conditions and always with the guarantees of legality, the safeguarding of the rights of the accused and the final diagnosis of the judicial authority.
Modern codes
Speeding up the administration of civil and administrative justice by reforming the institutional framework.
Drafting of modern Codes of Commercial - Bankruptcy - Insurance - Maritime Law.
Judicial Police
Establishment of a Judicial Police with specialised and experienced officers under the direction of a senior prosecutor in major urban centres or in the regions, for the faster and more efficient conduct of criminal proceedings.
Execution against the State
Ensure effective enforcement against the public sector.
Equal treatment of Citizen - State in debts
Abolition of the unequal treatment of the public sector as a debtor as compared to private debtors in terms of interest and in general abolition of any "quasi-interest-bearing" arrangement in favour of the public sector, such as the excessive surcharges and the excessive interest rates charged to private debtors of the public sector, IKA, etc.
Objective 2: Better quality justice through new technologies and infrastructure
Ensuring that all justice officials have the institutional framework, means and infrastructure to carry out their work without hindrance.
PROPOSALS - MEASURES Digitisation
Full digitalisation of all justice procedures and the creation of an interconnection network of all justice-related services throughout the country.
Automatic Service
The installation of "Automatic Service" systems for citizens and lawyers regarding the progress of a case in the major courts of the country.
Use of new technologies also for the electronic filing of documents.
Education and training in new technologies
Develop a system of tele-education and tele-training for practising judges through the National School of Judges.
Equipping all serving judicial officers with portable computers and continuous training of judicial officers in modern technologies.
Decisions on the Internet
Mandatory publication of all court decisions on the internet.
Upgrading the legal profession
Upgrading the legal profession and the role of lawyers in the administration of justice, by reforming the legal studies programmes, in cooperation with the Law Schools and by radically reorganizing, in cooperation with the Bar Associations, the practical training of trainees.
Reform and improve the Code on the Organisation of Courts and the Status of Judicial Officers.
Abolition of "purification"
Upgrading of secretarial support and computerisation.
Establishment of stenographic minutes of court meetings, following training of court officials.
Abolition of the "clear signing" of decisions and the introduction of "one and done" writing and publication.
Building infrastructure
Construction of new Magistrates' Courts and Magistrates' Courts in various regions of the country and modernisation of existing Magistrates' Courts and Magistrates' Courts.
Objective 3: Further institutional and functional modernisation of the penitentiary system The
improvement of the penitentiary system should continue with the necessary institutional interventions, prevention, transparency and control, as well as the upgrading of the necessary infrastructure.
PROPOSALS - MEASURES Youth Care Units
Operation of Youth Care Units for the modernization of institutions for minors, the implementation of measures to prevent delinquency and victimization of minors while ensuring their safe living, psychosocial support, education, vocational training and creative employment.
Decongestion of Detention Facilities
Decongesting the Detention Centres by strengthening the social character of the sentence and expanding the alternatives, such as the provision of social work, as well as by decriminalising certain offences for which administrative sanctions will be provided.
Improving detention conditions
Continuous improvement of detention conditions by intensifying inspections, expanding the rehabilitation programme for drug-addicted prisoners and creating Rehabilitation Departments for minors and women.
Strengthening the education of juvenile prisoners by further developing the schools operating in the Youth Detention Centres and creating Second Chance Schools in Detention Centres for adult prisoners.
Education - training of prisoners
Expansion of vocational education and training programmes for prisoners and the operation of workshops in the Detention Centres.
Development of programmes in the Rural Prisons and their expansion into new areas, such as bioculture, with the cooperation of Higher Education Institutions.
Social reintegration
Implement a system of social reintegration of released persons through education and vocational training programmes, job placement and temporary financial support.
Training of officials
Continuous training of prison officers with the cooperation of universities and TEI.
Detention centres
Modernisation of existing Detention Facilities and completion of the construction of new ones, which meet modern standards of security and living conditions for prisoners and ensure the conditions for the implementation of a modern penitentiary policy (education, training, construction and equipment of libraries, etc.).
Χ. A SAFE DAILY FOR THE CITIZEN Key areas of action
A basic component of the rule of law and the functioning of a democratic constitution is both respect for the regulatory framework established by the state and compliance with the rule of law.
The full guarantee of this condition not only ensures the sense of security and well-being of citizens, but also creates and spreads the sense of equality that is fundamental to any favoured state.
The government has done an important work in this direction, since it is the primary institution on which the citizen has placed the great task and expectation of defending and implementing the rule of law.
New multi-annual action programmes
At the same time, new multiannual action programmes are being designed, with quantitative and qualitative targets, which will be continuously monitored and evaluated and which will further improve the existing situation, which is considered satisfactory.
These plans:
`Take into account international experience.
Set clear quality objectives.
They are implemented on the basis of the Implementation, Monitoring and Evaluation system.
They lead to measurable results.
They are made public.
They are planned in cooperation with other bodies operating at local level.
Microcrime
In cooperation with each municipality in the country, a specific programme of actions will be developed and implemented at local level for the prevention of petty crime.
Synergy and coordination with local stakeholders such as Local Authorities will bring significant benefits and results, both qualitatively and quantitatively.
Neighborhood Policeman
The Neighbourhood Policeman represents a new and modern form of policing and expresses a new philosophy of intervention, with priority given to preventing problems that cause crime and solving them in cooperation with citizens.
It is an additional police action and launches a systematic relationship between the police and citizens.
Foot Patrols
The institution of foot patrols, which has been in place for three years, has shown significant results.
With data from all over the country, we conclude that the institution's contribution to crime prevention is significant.
For the four years 2004 - 2008 we plan to further activate the institution with maximum use of new technologies.
Crime prevention and suppression teams
In order to reduce crime, especially in its serious and organised form, and to tackle specific or increased problems, Crime Prevention and Suppression Teams have been set up and operate, with very satisfactory results.
These teams have continuous operational readiness.
For the four-year period 2004-2008 we are planning:
The full use of new technologies in the operation of these teams.
Ensuring a high level of logistical and informational support.
Border surveillance - illegal immigration
Based on the data that are formed in the country, due to the international conditions, they were established and operate.
Border Guard Departments of zones A and B.
Border Guard and Anti-Immigration Departments of the Intra-Country Border Guard and Anti-Immigration Departments.
Departments of Illegal Immigration in the Prefecture of Attica.
In total there are 58 departments. Mobile police stations
In order to increase the presence of the Police in areas of large urban centres with specific characteristics, a programme of Mobile Police Stations is being implemented.
The units concerned are very well staffed, well equipped and flexible.
Firefighting Fire protection
In the field of firefighting, the results have been particularly positive in the last three years in particular.
Although the number of outbreaks remained more or less the same or even increased , the number of fires and their consequences decreased significantly.
The detection mechanisms that have been developed work very well and outbreaks are detected in a very short time.
At the same time, the readiness of the mechanisms, as well as the excellent equipment contributed to the positive result of the last few years.
Indicatively mentioned is the inclusion in operational operation of rescue - fire-fighting vehicles of rapid intervention.
Specifically:
A Coordinating Regional Operational Centre (ROC) has been established at the headquarters of each regional Public Health Directorate for better coordination of local forces.
Airborne infantry units were established.
Six Special Disaster Response Units have been established
135 Fire Brigades have been established and are operating. Fire Services in different regions to ensure immediate intervention.
4 new Fire Stations were established and are operating in Heraklion, Volos, Thessaloniki and Patras.
An Arson Investigation Directorate has been established and is operational.
For the next period they are still planned:
Simplification of procedures for issuing fire protection permits.
Creation of Fire Online, for monitoring, logging and processing of events.
Olympic Games and Fire Safety
A 65 billion programme for infrastructure and equipment is being implemented.
Creation of a Fire Brigade office in the D.A.O.A.
Modernization of the 199 Fire Service Operations Center.
The more general objective in the next period is to adapt the RIS to the new fire safety environment.
Security of the Olympic Games
The State is prepared to host the 2004 Olympic Games with a well-organized Olympic security sector.
The security of the Olympic Games has been institutionally entrusted by the State to the Ministry of Public Order and specifically to the Hellenic Police.
For this purpose, the Olympic Games Security Directorate was established, a special autonomous service directly under the Chief of the Greek Police.
The level of security organisation can be described as top level, based on international standards.
It is a common realization, both abroad and in Greece, that the position of the country in both the European and international environment has been upgraded impressively.
We have given prestige and credibility to modern Greece.
With hard work, we have achieved Greece's accession to the Economic and Monetary Union, to the Eurozone.
Our country is now an integral part of the internal core of the EU.
Greece today is truly independent and secure.
It is a force for peace, democracy, cooperation and development in the South East. Europe, the Mediterranean and the world.
Consistency in the principles of our foreign policy is the basis of the country's prestige.
The country's international prestige and its enhanced influence are built on consistent adherence to the principles that underpin our foreign policy:
Peace,
democracy,
collegiality,
respect for human and minority rights, the
rights of migrants and refugees,
peaceful resolution of disputes,
respect for international law, respect for sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity, equality of states in the international environment, non-use of force and promotion of international relations through multilateral international development.
We promoted our national issues and achieved Cyprus' unconditional accession to the European Union,
détente with Turkey,
regional security and stability in the Balkans.
Under adverse international conditions, the success of the Greek Presidency of the EU marked our common perspective on the future of Europe.
We have created a secure Greece that contributes to and ensures peace, that offers opportunities to all citizens, without exclusion.
Our policy leads Greece to the beginning of a new historical period characterised by security, confidence and prosperity.
We secure the interests of Hellenism in the new European and international environment.
In the next four years, our Government will continue to work steadily to implement the strategic objectives we have set in foreign policy and which we pursue with consistency, determination, responsibility, realism and knowledge of international developments and correlations.
The four years 2004-2008 will be the four years of peace, the
resolution of the Cyprus problem, the
peaceful resolution of the problems with Turkey, the
deepening of stability and security in our region with the support of the European perspective of Turkey and the Balkan countries.
At the beginning of this new four-year period, the Olympic Games in Athens offer the historic opportunity and possibility for the emergence of the Olympic Truce as an international peace initiative for the cessation of hostilities and regional conflicts and the establishment of Greece in international public opinion as a country that defends international principles and values.
The strengthening of our country's international position and credibility will be confirmed by our election in October 2004 as a non-permanent member of the Security Council.
This election, for which we have been working systematically, will ensure that Greece will have a particularly important position in shaping international developments for the two years 2005-2006.
The promotion of our foreign policy will continue to be based on the broadest possible consensus of society, citizens and political forces, inside and outside Parliament.
We have the political will and we are committed to working to improve information and scrutiny in Parliament and in the relevant Foreign Affairs, Defence and European Affairs committees.
We want Members of Parliament to be aware and involved.
To this end, the political leadership of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will have the responsibility to inform on a monthly basis the MPs participating in the relevant committees on foreign policy developments.
Within the framework of the National Council for Foreign Policy, which our Government has established, our goal is to upgrade its operation and make the necessary reforms based on the experience we have gained, so that it becomes an essential strategic advisor to the Government on foreign policy issues.
Globalisation is not an ideology, it is not an end, it is not a choice - it is a reality.
Globalisation creates risks, but it also creates new opportunities for growth, cooperation and prosperity.
We are opposed to the neoliberal version of globalisation that widens inequalities and social exclusion.
PASOK wants democratically ordered globalisation:
It wants a globalisation of values and solidarity.
It wants a fairer distribution of the world's wealth.
It wants a multipolar and multicultural world.
It wants a multilateral solution to global problems.
It wants democratic and equal representation in international organisations.
In this changing world, PASOK has a proposal:
PASOK aims to establish rules for democratic and social control of globalisation through international cooperation, the development of institutions of regional integration and collective security.
We fight for the safeguarding of the interests and perspective of Greece and the Greek people;
- Peace, dialogue and cooperation;
- Democratic global governance of a multipolar world. -North/South and West/East solidarity.
- Sustainable development. -
Human rights.
- Social justice, fairer redistribution of global wealth.
Institutions for cooperation and regional integration;
- Effective response to the phenomena of terrorism by addressing the root causes.
The accession of Cyprus to the EU.
Our government was instrumental in the opening and completion of the accession negotiations of the Republic of Cyprus with the European Union.
The 16th of April, the day of the signing in Athens of the Act of Accession of Cyprus, is a historic date for Hellenism at large.
Our first priority:
A democratic, workable and viable solution to the Cyprus problem, guaranteeing Cyprus' proper participation in the European Union.
With the accession of Cyprus, the Cyprus problem, beyond its international dimension, acquired a European dimension.
The next period will be decisive for the resolution of the political problem of Cyprus.
We firmly support the efforts of the UN and the good offices of Secretary General Kofi Annan, whose revised plan is the basis for the negotiations.
Our aim is for the negotiations, under the auspices of Mr.Annan and on the basis of his plan, to lead to a just, viable and workable solution, in line with the UNSC decisions and compatible with European principles and the acquis communautaire, before Cyprus' formal accession to the EU on 1 May.
The resolution of the Cyprus problem is in the interest of the Cypriot people, the Greek Cypriot and Turkish Cypriot citizens, peace, stability, security and development of the wider region.
It is in Turkey's interest because the Cyprus problem will continue to have a catalytic effect on its European course, in view of the relevant decisions to be taken by the EU next December.
A reunited, democratic and federal Republic of Cyprus in the European Union is our strategic goal.
2004 is the most critical year in the resolution of the political problem in Cyprus.
We need to maintain credibility and continuity in the conduct of our foreign policy, to exploit the comparative advantage we have secured at a critical juncture.
PASOK is in a position to guarantee it.
In Greek-Turkish relations we have achieved, through our firmly principled policy and the initiatives we have taken, important results, unprecedented in the history of our bilateral relations.
Through our European policy we have succeeded in bringing Turkey into the process of adaptation to European values, criteria and conditions for respect for fundamental rights, the rule of law, democracy, international law and the peaceful settlement of disputes.
At the bilateral level and in all areas of mutual interest, our aim is to further broaden and deepen cooperation, which is proving to be particularly beneficial to the interests of both peoples.
Greek-Turkish relations have entered a new period, characterised by the reduction of tension, the creation of a climate of mutual trust, the promotion of contacts and cooperation in strategic sectors of the economy, the development of cross-border cooperation for the benefit of the development of the border regions, the recession and good neighbourly relations.
The aim is to resolve the dispute over the delimitation of the continental shelf.
We want to expand this chapter that we have created and use it in the direction of the resolution of the Cyprus problem, the consolidation of peace, stability and security of the two countries.
We will continue the dialogue to reach agreement on military and civilian confidence-building measures.
We want to resolve the dispute over the delimitation of the continental shelf in the Aegean.
To this end, we will continue exploratory contacts to examine the possibilities for an agreement on a joint recourse to the International Court of Justice in The Hague, respecting the principles of international law, the law of the sea, international and bilateral treaties and the decisions of the European Union.
This is the framework and the principled policy that we have consistently and responsibly followed.
We support Turkey's European course, which goes through the resolution of the Cyprus problem.
We remain firm and sincere supporters of Turkey's European course and the strengthening of relations with the European Union, in accordance with the decisions and conditions set for all candidate countries; a European course that can only pass through the resolution of the Cyprus problem.
We will fight for an area of peace, stability, security and development.
To solve the problems by political and diplomatic means, through dialogue, respecting the principles of international law.
Our strength is the politics of principles and values that we defend.
Our responsibility is to defend the interests of the people and the country.
In this context, we have proposed to Turkey to start talks, after the 7 March elections, on the gradual reduction of defence equipment and expenditure between the two countries.
For PASOK and our government, peace is synonymous with the development and prosperity of our peoples.
We have achieved a strong Greece in Europe
We have achieved Greece's accession to the Economic and Monetary Union (EMU) and the single currency, the Euro, along with eleven other member states of the Union.
When the process of creating the single currency was starting, no one in Europe believed that Greece could join the new currency.
European orientation is a strategic choice for our country.
Greece has a strong role and influence to promote its long-standing interests, to improve its prosperity, the quality of democracy and social life, and to preserve its cultural identity as a member of a wider supranational entity, the European Union.
The foreign policy of the PASOK government, culminating in the Greek Presidency of the EU during the war in Iraq, made Greece a European reference country.
It has been instrumental in making the European Union a factor of respect for international legitimacy - despite the strategic differences within its ranks.
We contributed decisively to the cohesion of Europe and kept Greece, with principled positions, out of the theatres of war.
We have listened to the great popular movements for peace and legitimacy and turned into concrete political action the broader popular sentiment for peace, international understanding and legitimacy.
During the Greek Presidency, the Treaty of Accession of the 10 new members of the European Union was signed.
A Europe of 25 states and 500 million inhabitants becomes a reality.
We have a vision of the Europe we want.
A strong Europe of citizens.
A Europe of democracy,
peace, stability and cooperation in the world;
a Europe of cohesion, solidarity,
social justice and
multiculturalism.
A Europe with social policies and policies for society and its citizens,
for the protection of the environment.
A Europe on the road to Political Union.
Objective 1: We want a Union with social prosperity for all We are fighting for a European Union of social cohesion and solidarity.
We will fight:
For the "redistribution" of resources at inter-regional and inter-social level.
For the adoption of integrated employment and "social support" policies at all levels.
To support farmers and rural development.
To strengthen cohesion policies and reinforce the Structural Funds.
Our goal is to increase the Union's budget from the current 1.27% of the Union's GDP to at least 3% of GDP in the medium term, so that the EU can respond to the social needs of its citizens.
We are fighting for a common foreign, security and defence policy that will enable Europe:
- To act effectively in the international system in cooperation with other centres of power and to develop its relations with the USA on an equal footing;
- To be a force for stability, peace and cooperation, to face crises, to fight poverty, organised crime and ecological degradation, to promote global democratic governance, international law and the principles of the United Nations Charter. - To
contribute to the emergence of a multi-centred world as a prerequisite for global balance, stability and cooperation;
- To effectively protect its Member States and its citizens from any external threat and risks arising from new sources and the unstable global environment.
Third objective: The European perspective of all South Eastern European countries
We seek the integration of all South Eastern European countries into the European Union by fulfilling the necessary political and economic reforms.
We want the Balkans to become an area of peace, stability, democracy, cooperation and prosperity.
We support the accession of Bulgaria and Romania to the EU in 2007.
Our aim is for the enlarged European Union to evolve institutionally into a Political Union of federal constitution on a democratic basis.
The Union is not one big internal market.
It should have a political content and function.
That is why we will work to give the Union genuine democratic governance with the broad participation of its citizens.
We want strong participation of all Member States in all the highest political offices of the Union.
We will make a constructive contribution to the effort to strengthen transatlantic relations, EU-US relations, on the basis of equality, respect for mutual interests and shared responsibility for addressing international problems, in the framework of UN resolutions and by highlighting the role of the International Organization in international relations.
We look forward, at the same time, to strengthening bilateral Greek-American relations on an equal and mutually beneficial basis.
The period ahead will be crucial for the institutional and political strengthening of the European Union.
We have been and will continue to be actively involved in the negotiations on the European Constitution.
Our goal is to ensure our country's equal position in the new European institutional framework and to contribute to the deepening of the unification process, to political integration, to the formation of a truly common foreign, defence and security policy.
The basic strategic priority in our foreign policy is the European Union and the country's position in the European institutions.
We support the creation of a democratic Europe, a Europe of citizens,
with social cohesion and solidarity,
with respect for cultural and religious diversity.
The Greek policy on South-Eastern Europe over the last decade has been a principled policy aimed at serving the national interest secured through stability and cooperation in the wider region and the active promotion of its European perspective.
We promote in the Balkan region the guarantee of peace,
stability, respect for human rights and minorities and the immutability of borders.
We look forward to further developing and deepening bilateral relations with all countries of the region, to steadily supporting their path towards full participation in the European Union and their integration into Euro-Atlantic institutions, as well as to consolidating regional cooperation, security and stability.
Our policy has turned Greece into the engine of the European perspective of South-Eastern Europe.
We will contribute to the swift conclusion of accession negotiations with Bulgaria and Romania so that they can become full members of the Union on 1.1.2007.
The Western Balkans integration perspective
For the other Western Balkan countries, our goal is to promote and implement the Stabilisation and Association Agreements, which are a necessary condition for their European perspective.
In this context, the EU sent its strongest political message to date with the Thessaloniki European Council Declaration that the European perspective of these countries is henceforth a path of no return.
For Greece, all the countries of the Western Balkans are potential candidate countries with a secure membership perspective.
Greece has a significant economic presence in the Balkan countries, actively participates in multinational peacekeeping operations (Kosovo - FYROM) and has significantly improved the living conditions of the Greek minority in Albania.
We promote investment and economic cooperation projects with the Balkan countries.
We are strengthening regional cooperation by completing the Balkans Reconstruction Plan (BCRP), deepening democracy and civil society, cooperation in the fight against organised crime.
Mediterranean - Middle East
The Mediterranean region is of particular importance for Greece.
Our country is a bridge between Europe and the countries of the Mediterranean South.
Our relations with the Mediterranean countries occupy a privileged position in the foreign policy of the PASOK governments.
Euro-Mediterranean cooperation
Euro-Mediterranean cooperation (EMC) is an upgrade of the EU's external relations framework with the Mediterranean countries.
Greece strongly supports the Barcelona Process and the creation of the Free Trade Area by 2010.The
Greek Presidency decided to strengthen the institutional framework of the EMS with representatives from the National Parliaments and the European Parliament.
We have also launched a policy of transparency and cooperation with the Mediterranean countries on security and defence issues.
Greece strongly supports the development of the Mediterranean countries' infrastructure in the fields of transport, energy and telecommunications and their interconnection with the trans-European networks.
A priority for Greece is the implementation of Israel-Palestine interconnection projects.
Our country has also promoted the idea of alliances between the EU and Mediterranean countries on terrorism,
migration,
drugs and organised crime.
The comparative advantages of geography and culture in relation to our European partners provide a strong incentive to expand our cooperation through projects in the field of culture and civic communication.
The international prestige of our country and our acceptance by the countries of the Mediterranean and the Middle East allows us to play a central role in bringing these countries closer to the EU.
Greece has tried, both independently and through its EU presidency, to create the conditions for a more active contribution of the international community to peace in the region.
Our country has maintained open channels of communication with all sides, providing financial and material assistance to the Palestinians.
The EU must have a more active and effective role in the peace process and on this basis we will continue to strengthen European intervention in the Middle East.
Creation of a Palestinian State - Security for Israel
Our active presence in the Middle East will continue by further developing our relations with the Arab and Muslim world and by steadily supporting and taking initiatives to solve the Palestinian problem, to create a Palestinian state and to ensure Israel's right to live within secure borders.
Greece of Peace, Cooperation and Development
We promote cooperation with Russia, the Black Sea and Caucasus countries, with particular emphasis on Energy Cooperation, as our country is located at an important crossing point of energy networks of great geostrategic value.
We seek to further strengthen Greece's relations with all the countries of South East Asia. Europe, the GCC, the Mediterranean, the Middle East, Russia and other regions and countries of the world (China, Africa, India, Latin America).
To this end, we make use of the historically good relations with these countries, the cultural common heritage with many of them, as well as the institutional position of our country as a member of the EU and the advantages that derive from it.
We have succeeded in strengthening Greece's position in all international organisations and fora such as NATO, the UN and the OSCE.
Development and humanitarian aid
For the first time in recent years, Greece has developed a systematic development cooperation and aid policy to finance emergency humanitarian aid and development programmes in developing countries, as well as development education and awareness-raising activities to promote volunteerism.
Our aim is to increase the resources available to make development and humanitarian cooperation a dynamic lever in the conduct of Foreign Policy and in the implementation of the principles of solidarity and cooperation with the world's most vulnerable peoples.
At the same time, we will strengthen and develop the economic and trade dimension of our country's external relations by promoting bilateral economic and trade relations, which will now be the main priority of our diplomatic authorities abroad.
Intensifying this policy is part of our programme for the next four years.
The resources available for this purpose are steadily increasing and will support NGOs and other voluntary organisations working in different parts of the world to address humanitarian problems.
New forms and instruments of foreign policy
In the new international conditions, the defence and promotion of the country's interests are closely linked to the use of new forms of diplomacy.
Citizen diplomacy, with non-governmental organisations, parliamentary diplomacy with the cooperation of parliaments, cultural diplomacy, city diplomacy with the cooperation of local government institutions, will be strengthened and will have our full support, financial and political.
Finally, Greece has taken the lead in shaping a common European "green" diplomacy for the environment and sustainable development.
Citizen diplomacy
We recognised the role and contribution of "Non-Governmental Organisations" in promoting humanitarian activities.
We have developed networks of citizens and strengthened forms of voluntary action in the field of foreign policy.
Olympic Truce Olympic Truce
The Olympic Truce initiative is a Greek initiative.
It stems from the belief that sport and the Olympic ideals can contribute to a peaceful and better world.
To promote dialogue, reconciliation, mutual understanding, solidarity and peace.
Our initiative is supported by dozens of personalities from all over the world and the European Union, while its adoption by the United Nations General Assembly was the subject of the first unanimous Resolution of the Assembly in the history of the UN.
SECURITY - DEFENSE
The work that has been done so far is the foundation for tomorrow's strong and modern Greece.
Our aim is to create modern and effective armed forces that will meet the requirements of the new era.
The armed forces are an integral part of Greek society, a fact that is reflected in the policy we pursue and continue to promote.
We have succeeded so far:
Restructuring of the Armed Forces Structure
- Restructuring of the structure of the Armed Forces (New Structure).
Apply interdisciplinarity (organisation of joint command, training and control) to increase and optimise their defence capability.
A more effective Army and qualitative upgrading of officers and enlisted personnel to meet the new conditions, as they have emerged since the end of the Cold War and in view of the new forms of threats to our national security;
- A programme for the return of 135 old camps to local communities for public benefit.
New Evaluation System
- New modern system of evaluation and professional development of permanent staff, exceeding the yearbook, for better utilization of human resources.
Reduction of tenure
- Reduction of military service to 12 months for all three arms.
Increased utilization of 7-year professional cadres, giving job opportunities to thousands of young people;
- Continuous improvement of living conditions for conscripts;
- Radical upgrading of housing and food for cadres and conscripts.
Establishment of Internet centres in military units.
Libraries and gyms in the border areas, mainly in the border regions.
Operate and continuously develop vocational orientation and training programmes in computers and other skills for all conscripts.
Full objectification of the system for the allocation of posts and transfers.
Reduction of Defence Expenditure
- Reducing and rationalising defence spending, which is among the highest in the world.
From 4.9% of GDP in 2001 to 3.5% in 2004.
Our target is 2.8% in 2008.
This reduction saves around €2.5 billion annually, which can be allocated to social policy.
Normalisation in Greek-Turkish relations will further accelerate the reduction of defence spending.
Greek Defence Industry
- Completion of armament programmes and major defence infrastructure projects, so that Greece and the Greek-Cypriot Common Defence Space have the necessary defence means.
Greece is leading the establishment of the European Armaments Agency, which will create a common market for European defence products with the cooperation of European industries and the effective abolition of national borders.
Restructuring of the Greek defence industry in order to upgrade its quality, its economic viability, to increase its participation in armaments programmes and to link it with the European defence industry.
Participation in peace missions
Institutionalisation of defence research with a view to linking it to European defence research and technology.
Social contribution of the Armed Forces.
Constant readiness to contribute to the response to all kinds of emergencies.
The defence policy of PASOK for the new four-year term
Creative participation in international security organisations with respect for international legitimacy and the rejection of any unilateral action as a fundamental principle.
Participation in peacekeeping missions on the basis of the implementation of UN decisions.
The promotion and continuous affirmation of Greece's international role as a factor of security, peace, stability and international legitimacy in Europe and the wider Mediterranean region.
Greece plays a leading role in the creation of a defence pillar of the European Union with the aim of strengthening European defence capabilities in the framework of its international agreements.
Full defensive competence
Continuously ensuring full defence capability, flexible response and deterrence capacity that includes the Greece-Cyprus Common Defence Space.
Further strengthening Greece's international role, through appropriate defence diplomacy, as a factor of security, peace and stability in the South East region. Europe and the Mediterranean.
New reduction of the term of office
We are also planning new reductions in military service, depending of course on the improvement of Greek-Turkish relations and taking into account the strength of the Armed Forces.
European Defence
Exploitation of the special weight that Greece has gained in international organisations and continuation of the European course with its active participation in the shaping of a European defence identity.
Greek Defence Industry
Completion of the restructuring of the Greek Defence Industry.
Securing jobs in a state-controlled sector.
With a plan and strategy we strengthen the domestic Defence Industry and link it with the corresponding European one, through cross-border collaborations, co-productions, joint research projects.
Completion of the institutional modernisation of the Ministry of Defence with the creation of the necessary political infrastructure to more effectively support the political leadership in the formulation of defence policy.
A high defence capability to address the new security and stability risks posed by the spread of international terrorism.
A high defence capability and the maintenance of security and stability in our region is a fundamental factor for the development of the Greek economy, because it guarantees a secure environment for attracting investments in our country, but also for the expansion of Greek investments in the countries of the wider region.
The consolidation in these countries of peace, democracy, social cohesion and rules of operation in line with the prospect of their integration into European institutions is a vital national interest.
Social role of the Armed Forces
Promotion and strengthening of the social role of the Armed Forces, with particular emphasis on their contribution to the 2004 Olympic Games.
The Armed Forces, after the huge upgrade of the country's defence system, guarantee the response to any internal or external action that would threaten the uninterrupted conduct of the Games or the security of the citizens.
The Greek citizens of the world, inhabitants of more than 140 new homelands of Hellenism, have enormous dynamism.
It is not only the historical memory of the first immigrants, which is kept intact by future generations, but also the present-day expatriates and homogenous people, young people, women, businessmen, scientists, politicians, people of letters and arts.
This vigorous and well-established part of Hellenism is given the opportunity today to present its views, to become active and to contribute substantially to the fate of Hellenism and our country.
The Expatriates and the Homogeneous constitute a reservoir from which Greece draws strengths for the shaping of a common future of Hellenism in the 21st century.
They are bridges for intercultural dialogue and international cooperation.
The Greek citizens of the world with their culture have universal dimensions.
A Greek is every person who becomes a partaker of Greek education.
Our goal is to deepen relations with the expatriate Greeks and their institutionalized bodies, to utilize their dynamic position in the countries where they live, to promote and defend our positions and interests, our language, education, culture and traditions.
In recent decades the Greek State has embraced the Hellenism of the Diaspora with warmth.
It has turned ties into institutions and is trying to take this cooperation in new and creative directions.
It is the contribution of the Greek State to the demands of the times, a project that attempts to redefine the role and the future of Hellenism in the diaspora at the beginning of the 21st century.
This challenge is being met with imagination and effectiveness in order to strengthen Greece's international position, enhance the presence of expatriates in the societies where they live, work and prosper and promote international cooperation.
The Diaspora is the "other half" of Hellenism, the "half heart" of Greece, which listens to the anxieties, rejoices in the successes of the expatriates and contributes decisively to the preservation and promotion of their cultural identity, both in Greece and abroad.
The Government feels the weight of responsibility and the demands of a modern Greek foreign policy, while at the same time it considers it its obligation to project an image of Greece abroad that corresponds to today's reality.
Greece has a valuable heritage, its culture.
In the new world order of open borders, transnational cooperation and the movement of large population groups, the immediacy of communication is constant and rapid.
Under these conditions, modern migratory flows and the diasporas of nations are today taking on dimensions much greater than those experienced by the Greeks of the Diaspora in the past.
They are cultural groups that not only maintain but also enrich their identity with elements from the cultures of their countries of origin and the societies of their new homelands.
The vision of a strong Greek society of the future is built on the basis of Greek traditional social values and enriched with new elements while maintaining the principles of tolerance, dialogue and respect for each different cultural tradition.
In this effort, the contribution of our Expatriates and Homogenous people is essential.
The Ministry of Foreign Affairs promotes programmes and actions in areas such as Education, Culture, Communication, etc., which embrace Greeks and non-Greeks in all parts of the world, especially those who are being tested, such as those in the Black Sea countries.
Of particular importance is the mission of the General Secretariat for Hellenes Abroad of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which is the staff for the implementation of government activities within the framework of the integrated strategy for the Greek community, which the Greek Government has been developing since 1983.
The primary objectives of the General Secretariat for Hellenes Abroad remain the preservation of the national and cultural identity of Greeks around the world, the preservation and strengthening of their ties with their homeland and with each other, the harmonious reintegration into Greek society of those who are repatriated and the strengthening of the philhellenism movement around the world.
Also, the Council of Hellenes Abroad has now been recognized and constitutionally established as a body that is able to propose solutions for issues of the Expatriates and the Homogeneous through an integral form of cooperation between the Diaspora and the Greek State.
The institutional organization of the relations of the Hellenes Abroad with Greece has been and continues to be one of the main priorities of our policy.
The diverse Ecumenical Hellenism in more than 140 countries - new homelands - of our nation is the best guarantee that Hellenism will have both a future and a voice in the events of the 21st century.
2004 is marked by the completion of the Olympic preparations, i.e. a systematic, ambitious and comprehensive plan for the real modernisation of the country in all areas: infrastructure, attitudes, working methods, competitiveness, international position and image.
In 2004 billions of people from all over the world turn their attention to Greece, to Olympia and to Athens.
2004 highlights Greece as a country that can organise sporting events on the scale of the Olympic Games.
A country that is strong, with international prestige, with an economy that can directly and effectively support the needs of a huge project such as the Olympic Games.
Our preparation for this top event is based on a specific and binding programme that:
- Treats the 2004 Olympic Games as a project of major national importance with multiple and complementary benefits for the national economy, for the strengthening of the competitive presence of our country in the wider European, Mediterranean and Balkan environment and for the international promotion of Greece. - It
redefines the Olympic Games and highlights the Olympic ideals;
- It enables global cooperation and participation through the international torch relay, which is the first time that it is taking place on such a scale and duration;
- It promotes the uniqueness of Greek culture through initiatives such as the Cultural Olympiad and the Olympic Truce.
- It highlights the authenticity of places, landscapes and ideas, by hosting the shot put event in Ancient Olympia, by holding the Marathon on its historic route, and by using the Panathenaic Stadium for archery.
The flawless conduct of the Olympic and Paralympic Games with the active participation of the Greek society and with the best possible performance of the Greek athletes.
To acquire a new "name" for Greece, to be identified in the consciousness of the international public opinion with the success of the Olympic and Paralympic organization with all the positive effects that this has in the long term on the country's prestige and its operation as a high quality multi-purpose tourist destination and not only as a Mediterranean summer holiday destination among other similar ones.
To maintain the economic and growth dynamics of the Olympic preparations, which contribute significantly to GDP growth and job creation.
Every euro was invested with the post-Olympic utility of the project in mind.
The Olympic projects, which have been delivered since 2003, in accordance with the timetables, are technologically complete and accessible for people with disabilities,
protect the environment and
are characterized by significant social utility, as after the Games they directly and effectively support the needs of society and the administration.
The Olympic Village creates 2,200 homes for the beneficiaries of the OEK.
The Press Villages at the University and the Polytechnic become new modern student residences.
The Press Village in Maroussi hosts the new headquarters of the Ministry of Education.
The Press Village in Amygdaleza is transformed into the Police School.
We are investing: €3.35 billion for the needs of Athens and €1.26 billion for the Region.
And all this within 5 years, with absolute fiscal discipline, with daily monitoring of the Olympic budget, with developmental and not temporary priorities.
The economy is not only not burdened, but on the contrary it is strengthened, it gains new dynamism, Greek companies participate, gain in know-how, offer new jobs.
The projects that we all see and will use, confirm with their post-Olympic usefulness the completeness of our planning as finalized between 1998 and 2000.
A planning that is not limited to the 17 days of the Olympic Games, but from the beginning aimed at decades after the Games.
Authoritative international organisations such as the OECD recognise the great effort made by the PASOK Government and civil society.
They also recognize the potential that the capital and the whole country gains because of the Olympic Games.
With our program:
The comparative benefits of the Olympic Games have been and are being further exploited.
120,000 new jobs are created, the Gross Domestic Product increases (by 0.5% in 2003 and about 1% in 2004), the economy maintains a high growth rate, industry and crafts, tourism, the construction sector and new productive activities are developed.
We guarantee the safety of the Olympic Games, the safety of citizens and visitors.
In a professional manner we create the conditions for safe Games, we promote security infrastructures that will have significant post-Olympic utility as they upgrade the capabilities of security forces in a difficult time worldwide.
We are creating a network of new motorways 90 km long, ensuring conditions unprecedented for the operation of Athens and the other Olympic cities.
We are also creating a modern and extensive transport network, with the Suburban Railway, Tram and Metro extensions in every direction.
We are upgrading the HSAP and the public transport network as a whole.
We are upgrading the tourist infrastructure in Athens and the other Olympic cities.
New hotels are being created, large units are being modernized, creating new conditions for Greece as a tourist destination.
We are raising awareness among citizens, young people and Greeks living abroad.
We strengthen the volunteer movement, we have been implementing for three years the Olympic Education Programme, which brings every student in every school in the country close to the history, the present and the future of the Olympic Games.
We gave priority to the 2004 Paralympic Games and to ensuring equal opportunities for people with disabilities.
All new facilities are built to be fully accessible to people with disabilities.
A network of new sports infrastructure is being created across the country to support sports for people with disabilities.
The new unified sports federation for people with disabilities that we have established is already bearing the fruits of our collective effort.
We essentially linked culture with sport, highlighting through the Cultural Olympiad, the Olympic ideals and the modern Greek culture.
Greece is present on the international scene with major cultural initiatives under our central slogan "For a civilization of civilizations", our response to the clash of civilizations.
We repositioned the Olympic Truce, promoting peace as an essential parameter of the Olympic Games.
We have created our own signature in our understanding of peace and we brought all the countries, the United Nations, UNESCO, the European Union.
We provide solutions to long-standing problems in the capital.
Athens has renewed its development plan, improved its road and transport network, gained access to the sea, restored the large area of the old airport at Elliniko with a social view, and created the conditions for it to function as a major business, tourist, cultural and sports centre.
We are improving the aesthetics and functionality of the other Olympic cities.
Thessaloniki, Patras, Volos, Heraklion are promoted globally, equipped with new infrastructure that offers the potential for new business and entrepreneurial projects, for major sporting events, for unstoppable growth.
The Olympic Action Programme that has been designed and implemented is divided into three programmes:
ATHENS 2004, the set of actions that concern the wider area of the capital and aim at its functional and aesthetic upgrading.
GREECE 2004, the set of actions concerning the region of Greece.
POLITIS and 2004, the set of actions concerning information, awareness and activation of citizens.
The Olympic Games are the springboard for the transformation of the capital into a metropolitan centre.
The holding of the 2004 Olympic Games served as a unique opportunity to upgrade the capital city functionally, developmentally and aesthetically and to cover its chronic shortcomings.
With the ATHENS 2004 Programme:
we created the network of Olympic cities of supra-local importance that is not limited to the areas that will host Olympic events (Falirikos Ormos, Faliro - the area of the current Hippodrome, Schinias - Marathon area, O.A.K.A. area, Galati) but also includes areas that will change their face through our interventions.
After the Olympic Games, these supra-local poles serve combined functions of sport, tourism - recreation, social solidarity and culture.
We have established special legislation with care for the environment, based on scientific spatial planning, with care for the city of tomorrow.
This legislation has already been positively evaluated and is considered a model for all Olympic host cities.
We have excluded post-Olympic uses (e.g. casinos or hotels on the coastal front that are not consistent with our vision for this city or that we believe do not belong in these poles).
We adopted low building ratios and coverage rates, seeking to preserve the open spaces of this city.
The Faliro Hippodrome closed after 75 years of operation.
In 2004 the Falirikos Ormos, the bay of the annexations, will have given way to a 700-acre recreational and cultural park, a park that will be connected to the former Hippodrome.
The sea front will have been restored.
The old Athens airport in Hellenikon is transformed into an Olympic pole for 2004 and then into a metropolitan park.
The beach of Agios Kosmas has already been freed from the uses that until recently distanced the resident or the visitor from the sea.
It hosts a new coastal park and the Olympic Sailing Centre that will serve as a post-Olympic pole for recreation, tourism and nautical sports.
The degraded habitat of Schinias is "alive" again thanks to the Olympic Rowing Centre.
The habitat of Schinias is protected by a presidential decree that defines the wider area as a National Park.
Markopoulo already hosts the Olympic Centre and the new Athens Hippodrome in modern facilities with care for the environment.
Acharnes is already dominated by the Olympic Village, which after the Olympic Games will function as a model residential nucleus for the beneficiaries of the Workers' Housing Organisation.
The ordinary working Greek thus becomes the first recipient of the post-Olympic uses.
In other parts of Attica, in Nikaia, Liosia, Galati, Goudi and elsewhere, Olympic facilities are being constructed with respect for the environment, with post-Olympic utility and with the potential to function as poles of local or even supra-local development.
In the period up to 2004, it was upgraded and completed through the C. Γ. A., the sports infrastructure of Athens is upgraded and upgraded through a programme of projects to meet the Olympic requirements and our vision for the best Olympic Games.
Our programme also includes key issues of the capital, such as the reconstruction of urban and intercity transport
, major interventions of metropolitan character (opening the city to the sea, integration of archaeological sites, etc.),
the creation of a green network,
the upgrading of the city squares, as well as
the emergence of poles of supra-local importance that will serve the entire capital region.
"GREECE 2004"
Key pillar of the Olympic preparation
The region is actively participating in the 2004 Olympic Games.
The 2004 Olympic Games are a national affair and not just a matter for the Attica basin.
In essence, it is an intervention in areas outside Attica that has a significant contribution to regional development, spreads the positive effects of the organization of the Olympic Games throughout the country and underlines the national dimension of the Games by integrating the region into the Olympic life.
Numerous actions and programmes bring every Greek citizen closer to this effort:
Through the organization of the Cultural Olympiad throughout the country.
With the implementation of the Olympic Education programme at the national level, in every school.
By holding pre-Olympic sporting events in cities in the region.
With the promotion and exploitation of all tourist destinations inside and outside Attica.
With the organization of the Olympic football tournament in Thessaloniki, Patras, Volos and Heraklion.
By creating new sports infrastructure throughout Greece.
It is the first time that an Olympic Organization has developed a programme with the characteristics of "Greece 2004" outside the host city.
And this is a political initiative of the PASOK government, which is outside the Claim File.
The "Greece 2004" programme is a key pillar of the Olympic preparation.
The financial volume of "GREECE 2004" amounts to approximately EUR 1.26 billion (432 billion), a level of funding that exceeds many operational programmes, both sectoral and regional, of both the 2nd and 3rd CSF.
The budget of HELLAS 2004 corresponds to 30% of the total budget of the Olympic organisation and 13% of the resources that will be allocated through the regional strand of the 3rd CSF outside Attica during the period 2000-2006 and even in addition to them.
"GREECE 2004"
Policy initiative
With the implementation of the "Greece 2004" Programme:
- A total of 70,000 new employment opportunities are created in the period 2001-2007 (during the preparation and post-Olympic exploitation) both on the construction sites and in the crafts/industries activated for the production of the projects.
In particular, 2,000 employees are recorded at the construction sites of the four stadiums being built in the Olympic cities (Kauritanzoglio, Panthessaliko, Pancretio, Pampeloponnesian);
- Regional GDP increases due to the implementation of "Greece 2004", ranging from 0.3% to 0.9% in 2004 (for the Regions hosting Olympic cities).
Already in 2002, an increase in Regional GDP of up to 0.4% was recorded in some Regions;
- The local economy is strengthened by the involvement of the productive forces of each region in the actions of the "Greece 2004" Programme.
In the 4 Olympic cities (Thessaloniki, Patras, Volos and Heraklion) Stadiums are being constructed or renovated to host the Olympic football tournament.
These stadiums have been designed to function as modern post-Olympic sports centres as they will have an 8-track track and indoor and outdoor gyms for a variety of sports.
Important regeneration and upgrading works are being carried out at the country's entry gates, at the sea entrances of Patras, Igoumenitsa and Corfu and at the land borders of Greece to the North (Niki, Kakavia, Euzoni, Promachonas, Kipi).
With the "Network of new sports infrastructure and Olympic training facilities", 643 new sports projects are already being constructed and 138 training facilities are being renovated across the country, creating the conditions for the sporting convergence of the region with the centre.
Already some of them have been selected by foreign sports delegations for their athletic preparation in view of the Olympic Games.
The special programme that is already being implemented for Ancient Olympia makes it the World Centre of the Olympic Games.
The redevelopment of the archaeological site, the creation of the Museum of the Olympic Games, the renovation of the existing Museum, the construction of the ring road that removes the traffic through the archaeological site, highlight the importance attached to the timeless value of the cradle of Olympism.
The projects in the Olympic cities and in Ancient Olympia are not exhausted during the fortnight of the Games but have a clear post-Olympic utility, transforming areas of the cities, providing solutions to chronic problems and improving the quality of life of the residents.
Typically it is stated that:
The Kautatzoglion Stadium is not just being renovated for the Olympic football tournament but is being transformed into a major sporting venue for Thessaloniki and Northern Greece with a 30-year horizon after the Games.
The improvement of the road axis from Macedonia Airport to the Phoenix area of Thessaloniki.
The redevelopment of the Phoenix refugee areas improve the entrance to Thessaloniki from the east.
The Volos ring road, the road bypass of Ancient Olympia and the renovation of the Museum.
The horseshoe road of Heraklion and the Knossos and Yofyros junctions.
The road connections in Patras.
There are also some indicative works of clear Olympic but mainly post-Olympic value.
With the HELLAS 2004 Programme:
α) Significant resources are available for the Greek Region - for the first time an integrated programme for the Region is being promoted in the context of an Olympic event.
b) A combination of regional policy instruments with focused intervention in the central development poles of the Region (Thessaloniki, Volos, Patras, Heraklion) and with dispersion of interventions throughout the country (through the network of training centres). (
c) The strengths of local communities and economies are harnessed for the construction of small projects; (
d) The regional product is increased, while all sectors of the local economy, apart from the construction sector, benefit to a greater or lesser extent; (
e) The population is retained in the countryside by improving the quality of life and extending leisure options.
Important Benefits of "HELLAS 2004" "CITIZEN & 2004" The citizen is informed, sensitized, participates.
In the run-up to 2004, we gave the Greek citizen the opportunity to get to know the Olympic preparation with information actions throughout Greece.
We found that stereotypes that accompany the Greek are not true.
The 130,000 volunteer applications that were collected constitute a new record in the history of the Olympic Games, showing in the most decisive and undeniable way that we Greeks are interested in the Games, we believe in voluntary participation.
On the road to 2004, we invite everyone to join us.
For the great moment of Greece.
THE POST-OLYMPIC USE OF INFRASTRUCTURE
The Olympic sports facilities are not sold, they are not divested, they remain in the public domain and are used in accordance with the needs of sport and civil society.
The basic criterion for the post-Olympic utilization of the infrastructure is the satisfaction - at the highest possible level - of the objective of cultural and sporting development in close cooperation with the sports federations and local authorities.
Our aim is to ensure their best possible social and economic use, with partial or full provision of the resources required for their operation and maintenance.
In addition to the economic benefits, each Olympic facility also brings social benefits.
Social benefit for the immediate area of the installation (e.g. municipality).
Each project benefits the wider area (e.g. county).
Every Greek citizen benefits from the existence of the facilities regardless of whether they are users of the infrastructure or not.
Our design
The design of the projects we have launched enables multiple post-Olympic uses, integrates them into the local environment and enables their development as supra-local poles of development, culture, sport and entertainment:
The preparatory work being carried out by the Ministry of Culture and the company "Olympic Properties", established by the Greek Government, for the post-Olympic use of the Olympic sports infrastructure, is yielding the greatest possible benefit in the field of sports, cultural, exhibition and conference activities.
It introduces new management systems that reduce operating and maintenance costs.
New management practices that make use of the country's human resources that already bring significant experience from the Olympic preparation.
It prioritizes facility reorientation projects where needed.
It provides incentives to secure major sporting or other events that capitalise on the projects and act as development tools for their host regions.
It supports, in cooperation with local communities and the business world, sports tourism in all regions of the country, thus making the best use of the new sports facilities that are being built.
Already many of the sports facilities, in Ermoupolis, Patras, Kalamata, Chalkida and elsewhere, are being used by foreign sports teams to prepare for the Olympic Games.
Sports projects and communication projects such as Broadcasting and Press Centres are classified into three categories depending on their characteristics and the possibilities they offer:
The projects that remain under the direct supervision of the Ministry of Culture and continue to operate under the legal status of a Legal Entity under Private Law (Athens Olympic Sports Centre -OAKA and Peace and Friendship Stadium - SEF).
The projects enable cooperation between the Ministry of Culture, Olympiacos Real Estate, the Municipalities and the sports federations.
This cooperation offers the opportunity for the participation of private parties in order to reduce maintenance and operating costs and to ensure the best possible business use of non-sports facilities.
The projects that enable their utilization in the framework of the development planning of public companies with the characteristics of the company HELLENIC TOURIST PROPERTIES.
With this utilization, important resources return to the Greek State and allow the continuation of our policy for sports development in the Region after 2004.
Apart from the economic and social viability of each Olympic project, the Olympic Games have important macroeconomic implications, as is evident from the experiences of Barcelona and Sydney.
The major projects that are being carried out on the occasion of the Olympic Games and the necessary equipment are the engine that allows the economy to run at a higher speed.
The country's growth is entering a new level, which is maintained in the long term.
The macroeconomic effects of the Olympic Games are direct - multiplier and indirect - incentive.
The former relate to the impact of the costs of hosting the sporting event, such as construction costs, operating costs, etc.
The second concerns the additional income and new jobs created by sectors and businesses that serve the Olympic Games and the Games that will be hosted after 2004 and, above all, the multiplier effect that the promotion of the country due to the Olympic Games will have on tourism.
Indirect benefits include the post-Olympic use of the Olympic facilities.
These projects are the legacy of the Olympic Games in the country's economy.
