Employed employees, unemployed and pensioners, self-employed professionals, tradesmen, professionals, farmers, young people, women.        We salute the hundreds of thousands of workers, who, with their votes and their commitment, have contributed and continue to contribute to the multiform support of the KKE, which is the decisive force for the organisation of the popular counter-attack.
We call especially on the working people, the poor popular strata who, for many years, voted for ND and PASOK to reflect on the new data.
We call on all of you, who have already taken the first step of disengaging from the scaremongering of PASOK and ND, not to leave this step unfinished.
We are addressing you, who know the contribution of the KKE, but who gave your vote to another party that promised that there is hope for an immediate and easy governmental solution.
We are addressing you, who feel left-wing, radical, whose experience shows you that the Euro-path does not allow for a pro-worker, pro-popular policy.
There is no place for philopolitan politics and respect for popular sovereignty in the European Union
and with a bow to NATO.
Regardless of your differences with the KKE, you can think calmly about what it means to take responsibility for a government of management, what it means to be a "governing left".
It means that the problems of the people will not be solved, they will get worse, as the crisis in the Eurozone deepens and it becomes even more difficult to manage the daily problems of the workers within it, in the economic territory of the monopolies.
Resist the logic of the lesser evil, of retreat, of lowering demands in the name of realism.
To defy the old and new misleading dilemmas, which aim to make the Greek people surrender without a trace to the effort of restoring the bourgeois political scene,
in order to prevent the rebirth and growth of the working class, popular current of counter-insurgency, which claims a pro-popular way out of the crisis, pro-popular development.
Do not waver in the face of defeatist preaching that the people have no hope of winning. This logic will lead you to defeat and new suffering TODAY.
We invite you to draw conclusions from the game that was played on the backs of the workers during the exploratory mandates and the formation of an electoral caretaker government.
In this short period of time, many revealing elements have come to the surface, which have not been seen so much and to such an extent in recent years and especially in the previous election period.
The main purpose of the protagonists of the exploratory orders was to massively mislead the people.
The EU parties of every hue seek to trap him in the poverty of the people in order to ensure the profitability of the business groups of the European Union.
The path of the European Union, with its present or some modified Pact, if the crisis in the Eurozone deepens, means relative and absolute misery, unemployment, oppression, permanent insecurity.
No new Pact, no new Memorandum or new Loan Agreement will come into conflict with the strategic objective of the European Union:
Competitiveness - entrepreneurship - profitability served by the most brutal exploitation of workers.
These scenarios must be confronted in time by the people, with a popular movement rooted in the workplaces, in the offices, in the towns and villages.
This is where it is decided whether the people will extract concessions, whether they will ultimately win.
Without a strengthened KKE in the movement and in parliament, the popular counter-attack will not be effective.
The only way forward for the people's well-being is the break with both the European Union and the domination of the monopolies, the capitalist enterprises in Greece.
They ask the KKE to put water in its wine, to back the management of the crisis at the expense of the people.
They want the KKE in the government, so that they don't have an opposition, so that there is no strong counterweight in society.
The KKE has no right to become the government's alibi for disarming and dismantling the movement.
They demand that he cancel what he has won: the ability to endure and adapt to the conditions of the backsliding of the workers' movement and capitalist restoration.
To cancel the consistency of attitude and action against the reactionary or disorienting current, to deny the revival of the hope that the peoples will conquer power.
There are no painless solutions. //| The path of rupture, of conflict, requires sacrifices, but these lead to popular prosperity. The path of compromise, of submission requires sacrifices without end, without positive prospects for the people.
THINK WHERE WE WOULD BE IF THERE WAS NO STABLE AND MILITANT KKE
The KKE played a decisive role in the dynamic development of workers' and people's mobilisations, strike struggles, mass rallies, in exposing the class character of the policies of the New Democracy and PASOK.
Each and every one of them must measure both today and tomorrow, to reflect on where things will go if the popular movement is transformed into a support and applause for a government cooperating with one or the other mix of anti-people's policies.
Do not give in to the "leftist" management of misery.
THE KEKE CANNOT BE SUBDUED!      THEY WILL NOT EXTINGUISH THE HOPE OF THE GOVERNMENT OF WORKING PEOPLE'S POWER
The workers must think that at this critical moment their lives will not be changed by changing the government's chord, but by a counter-attack of demand and the overthrow of anti-people's policy, for a radically different path of development, based on the satisfaction of the people's needs, which presupposes the overthrow of the power of the monopolies.
And this time, either one or the other choice of government management, "right" or "left", centre-right or centre-left, will not lead to the relief of the people from the burdens of the Memorandum, the Loan Agreement.
In both cases, the anti-working class, anti-popular policy will act as a steamroller, since we are facing the possibility of bankruptcy and the most brutal unpopular adjustment.
The bickering between them is an empty shirt, since they support the Euro-road, the monopolies, the whole network of the country's commitments stemming from the European Union, NATO, the strategic alliance with the USA.
The centre-right is the tried and tested unpopular solution, with the Southwest and PASOK as its axis. They are not changing, despite their post-election manoeuvring.
Kamenos' party, "Independent Greeks", also joins the centre-right manoeuvre.
The centre-left government of SYRIZA, with the accession of PASOK members, i.e. the so-called "left-wing" government of cooperation, neither wants nor can lead the people into a conflict with the forces of capital, the Greek and foreign monopoly groups, in radical confrontation with the choices of the European Union and NATO.
The choice of such a government becomes dangerous for the people in another way, since it fosters illusions that within the framework of the system and without subversion there will be prosperity.
Objectively, he will impose new measures in the name of remaining in the European Union, which he considers a one-way street, in the illusory expectation of a change in the European Union's anti-people's strategy.
Thus, sowing unfounded expectations among the people will reap popular disappointment, as has happened in other European countries.
It has been proven, once again, that the Coalition/Syriza is a force that is insolvent and unreliable.
SYRIZA and the DIMAR cannot and will not stand in the way of any form of pressure and blackmail.
They sow complacency that their leaderships can negotiate, demand pro-people solutions within the organs of the wolf alliance, with persuasion, with pleading, without encountering any distraction.
They deliberately cultivate the false view that the economic crisis is due to liberal management, obscuring the truth that the people are living the economic crisis born in the bowels of the capitalist system, that the extent and depth of the present crisis shows the depth of its rottenness.
Capitalism cannot get rid of its crises, no matter what management mix prevails.
SYRIZA and next to it the Democratic Party of Greece, as well as the other so-called anti-memorandum parties, are silent about the antagonisms that are developing in our neighbouring region, in the Eastern Mediterranean, which threaten wars for the sharing of wealth.
They do not question Greece's participation in NATO, in its aggressive plans, from which new enormous dangers arise.
They want the vote, they want to govern with blank pages in their programs.
THE PEOPLE HAVE A CHANCE TODAY AND THEY MUST NOT MISS IT IN ORDER TO KEEP HOPE ALIVE!
Since the popular majority has not yet decided on the necessary confrontation with the forces of capital and the European Union, the hope is the support of the KKE at the ballot box and the meeting with the communists in the workplaces, in the popular neighbourhood, in the countryside for the rebirth of the movement.
For there to be a fighting radical opposition and counter-opposition force in the people and in Parliament.
Strong KKE - STRONG POPULAR RESISTANCE is the only option against any government, against the political system, which disguisedly wants to subjugate the people, to force them to give up their just demands.
BE VERY CAREFUL!      THEIR AIM IS TO REDUCE THE STRENGTH OF THE KKKEH THEY DISTORT WHAT THE KKKEH STANDS FOR AND WHAT IT IS FIGHTING FOR
SYRIZA and the DIMAR, and the other anti-memorandum parties, despite any criticism between them, have been chosen by the bourgeoisie as the most capable forces for the unmaking of the bourgeois political system after the great decay of ND and PASOK.
They have been chosen for the containment of the radical mood, for the rootlessness of the popular factor and for the electoral shrinkage of the KKE, which is the main objective of the bourgeoisie.
The attack on the KKE is made because it refuses to be locked into a crisis management government at the expense of the people and the productive development potential of the country.
To obstruct the pioneering role of the KKE in the rallying of forces and the alliance of the working class, the self-employed in the city and in the countryside with the active participation of the youth and women.
To reduce its political influence, to blackmail it and eventually to mutate it.
If the KKE, every time, had gone with the flow there would have been no working people's movement, it would have been universally integrated.
No pressure and no phony blackmail will pass!
AWAKENING, ALARM, FIGHTERS FOR THE STRENGTHENING OF THE KEKE
The historical responsibility of the KKE stands up against the historical irresponsibility of SYRIZA, against the attempt to become an accomplice to a government of management in favour of business groups.
The people do not need the KKE in the role of another servant of the monopolies and the European Union. The historical examples of the participation of communists in the centre-left governments of France and Italy are typical.
And these governments took unpopular measures, hit the working people's movement, drove it into retreat.
The KKE has the historical responsibility not to become the alibi for a government, which is now clearly not going to improve the living standards of the people, to tackle austerity and unemployment, whether it is a centre-right or a centre-left - "left" coalition.
This strengthens the working people's self-confidence and determination to become the protagonist in developments, to prevent the worst from happening, to demand an improvement in the standard of living, to open the way for the people to come to power themselves.
The creation of the SYRIZA government is the other side of the coin of blackmail and intimidation of "ungovernability"
Any government, in any country, does not selectively deal with 5-6 issues, but with all the critical issues, such as the more general commitments of membership of the European Union and NATO, the obligations arising from the strategic alliance with the US.
Therefore, it will be decided on everything.
The experience of the movement, of the Communist Parties in Europe has shown that the strategic choice of the Euro-road and NATO membership has been one of the strong factors of conformity and compromise, of renunciation of class struggle and radical change, with tragic results for the workers.
BREAK DOWN THE FALSE AND FALSE BELIEFS THAT TOMMONY CAN BE ABOLISHED OR THERE CAN BE REUNIFICATION FOR THE BENEFIT OF THE PEOPLE WITHIN THE EUROPEAN UNION
With the European Union and the power of the monopolies there is no hope! More than 24 million Europeans are unemployed, 115 million live below the poverty line!
THINK
There are no common solutions that are in the interests of working people and capital.
There is no progress and security for the future without confrontation and conflict with the European Union, the interests of the plutocracy.
This real dividing line is covered by the false divisions of "European" and "anti-European" orientation, "right" and "left".
Both, despite their differences, are raising false hopes that the renegotiation of the Euro Pact, the Memorandum and the Loan Agreement can be advantageous for both business groups and workers.
After the elections, whichever government emerges will not proceed to abolish them, or to dismantle them, as they say.
These contracts are backed by domestic monopoly capital, not imposed from outside alone.
HE WAS LYING.
No matter what amendment is made, it will not address unemployment, it will not stop the prevalence of half-work - half-unemployment.
The main feature will be cheaper labour power, the levelling of people's rights, the expansion of the profitability of big capital into new fields at the expense of people's welfare.
The anti-labour laws passed in recent years are not going to be repealed,
as well as the commercialisation of Education - Health - Welfare in the spirit and letter of the Maastricht Treaty, the implementing laws accompanying the Memoranda in crisis conditions.
DON'T FORGET
The attack to abolish any conquests of the peoples of Europe started in all member states before the crisis.
Today, the attack is escalating everywhere, whether a Memorandum has been adopted or not: On the working class in Germany, which is not an indebted country, in Britain, which is outside the euro, in Ireland, which has been the best student of the application of these guidelines.
The discussion about the notorious "new European wind" that is supposedly blowing after the French and Greek elections is not fresh.
It is a debate under the pressure of the contradictions and inherent difficulties of the capitalist system in managing the crisis and especially under the weight of popular discontent and struggles.
The debate is not aimed at satisfying the needs of the people.
Workers will continue to pay the burden of the crisis and capitalist competition, the minimum wages and salaries, the whole scale of wages and salaries will get worse.
It will lead to general flattening, while the crumbs will not relieve the most impoverished.
The young men and women of popular families will experience a dramatic life, they will not know whether they will have a job the next day, the next month.
Any modification of the Memorandum will not undo the fundamental longitudinal directions that emerge from the Maastricht Treaty to the "EU 2020 Strategy", which is a tool for the competitiveness and profitability of capital.
SYNAGERMOS
According to the scenarios that are already being discussed, the contraction of the Eurozone, with the eviction of Greece and other countries or the internal devaluation of the euro in our country, is not excluded.
The blackmail of the European Union and the IMF is real and the answer cannot be the complacency cultivated by SYRIZA.
A substantial escalation of the attack on wage earners and the self-employed is unfolding, with selective exceptions of extreme poverty groups - who are no longer able to survive on the minimum pension, the minimum hunger wage, the unemployment benefit.
That is why both SEV and PASOK in the post-election phase of the mandates called on SYRIZA to play a leading role in a government of renegotiation, in the framework of the so-called European orientation.
Renegotiation for the benefit of the bourgeoisie and crumbs to the people for the eyes of the people.
READ
The negotiation of the Memorandum does not constitute a salvation as claimed by ND and PASOK, but neither does it constitute a breakthrough as claimed by SYRIZA.
It is the continuation and consequence of the capitalist path of development and the inevitable crisis it causes.
The dilemmas of memorandum or anti-memorandum, euro or drachma, denunciation or gradual disengagement or renegotiation are misleading, they do not relieve the people of their commitments and suffering.
The SYNASPISM of the Left, which is the main force of SYRIZA, signed the biggest and most powerful Memorandum which was the Maastricht Treaty.
The Memorandum contains measures that are defined and obligatory for the member states of the European Union, such as privatisations, the overthrow of labour relations, Social Security, the further commercialisation of Education, Health, Welfare, etc.
Today's SYRIZA has not changed compared to the Coalition of 1992.
It is hoping and misleading the people.
It expresses the will and strength of those who believe that the interests of capital and workers, of exploiters and exploited can coexist.
That era is over.
The only stability he shows is in his promise to govern in a Greece that will participate in the European Union, in which the people can supposedly coexist peacefully with capital, with the monopolies.
With the dilemma "Greek or European solution", it is sought to pacify the Greek people, to achieve the so-called social cohesion, i.e. the subordination of the workers to the cruel capitalist employers, to transfer the claim to the level of transnational discussions, to the kitchens of the wolf alliance.
The popular struggle is being waged first of all within the country, on the national field, and at the same time it extends to a pan-European level, in order to achieve a coordinated fire against the European Union.
With the dilemma of "austerity or growth" adopted by all other parties, they deceive the people, because any recovery achieved in capitalist growth and profitability will have as its constituent element austerity, barbaric labour relations, high priced commercialised Education and Health, impoverished public services, relative and absolute destitution, the plundering of national wealth.
The "right or left" dichotomy suits the manipulations of the capitalists, industrialists, shipowners, bankers, big traders, middlemen.
It helps ND and PASOK as parties of capital, it helps the effort to rally the centre-right, but also the resurrection of social democracy with SYRIZA and DIMAR at its centre, in order to form a modern centre-left.
His plagiarism is obvious.
With the first difficulty he abandons or modifies slogans before he takes over governance as he aims.
This is amply demonstrated by the somersault he did in his letter to Mr Barroso.
This is demonstrated by the different and contradictory statements of its executives, contradictions that are also included in its central programmatic texts, in its central speeches, which consciously aim at winning votes with policy ambiguity.
This confirms the well-known phenomenon "with other slogans I threaten, I win votes, with other slogans I govern".
Any party, however it is called, that does not have a programme of radical confrontation and rupture - conflict with capital, the monopolistic business groups, cannot respond to the pressing popular problems, the needs and rights of the workers.
SYRIZA's proposals call on the people to pay again a large part of the debt for which they are not responsible, but also did not benefit from its partial cancellation.
It proposes the taxation of capital as a source to raise resources, when everyone knows that within the European Union and in Greece a choice of direction is valid, the new reduction of the tax on profits, the reduction or even exemption from employer contributions for social security funds, as one of the basic conditions for Greek and foreign investment by business groups.
The minimal corrections to labour legislation that they propose keep the capitalists' hands free to impose new anti-worker measures, inviting workers to survive in the jungle of temporary flexible employment, which affects all EU member states.
All this in conditions where the reserve army of the unemployed exceeds 20%.
The productive reconstruction that they propose does not abolish the Community quotas of the CAP, which turned our country from self-sufficient to an importer of meat, milk, sugar, most agricultural products, and the Community commitments that led to the shrinkage of the Greek shipyards, so that they do not produce for the needs of coastal shipping.
It does not set among the first conditions for the government of the left forces the abolition of the list of compulsory privatisations.
His proposal for public control of the banks does not constitute a pro-popular policy, because it is a selective and temporary strengthening of the state's share in their share capital and management, it does not change the role of the banks in the capitalist system, it will not give "breathing space" to farmers and self-employed, small entrepreneurs.
Nationalization may be carried out as the liberal Rajoy, the prime minister of Spain, the president of Argentina for the country's oil, who, while chasing away Spanish businessmen, at the same time invites Americans, Chinese, Brazilians and other businessmen to take over the country's oil wealth and at a bargain price, as he claims.
The nationalisation of ailing companies is not a left-wing policy, it was applied by liberal and social democratic parties.
Nationalisation in the conditions of capitalism is one thing and socialisation in the conditions of the people's economy is another.
Problematic enterprises of the capitalists are nationalized, consolidated by taxing the majority of the people and given away as profitable to business groups.
Such nationalisations are not related to the socialised sector belonging to the people, which abolishes capitalist ownership, the exploitation of man by man.
SYRIZA's position on productive reconstruction concerns the same path of development motivated by capitalist profit, which brought the crisis and has made hostage to the banks the self-employed, the popular households and the poor farmers, while they are under the suffocating pressure of competition from the monopolistic groups.
No "renegotiation" can transform the European Union from a guardian of power and monopoly profits to a Europe of the people.
This character of the European Union also defines its strategy.
The current leading position of Deutsche Telecom in telecommunications, of Kosco in the port of Piraeus, of Hochtief in the airport of Spata, of Vinci in the Rio-Antirrio bridge in alliance with Greek groups is a natural consequence of the liberalisation of capital movement within the European Union, to which SYRIZA bows.
The battle is decided first of all in Greece, in the confrontation with the power of the monopolies and not only with its international allies.
ND and PASOK have been weakened, they must shrink even more, they do not deserve the vote of workers, employees, poor self-employed people and farmers. Neither do their substitutes, such as the party of Kammenos.
The young people and young people and the suffering workers in general should think very seriously and correct the vote they gave to GOLDEN DAWN, while they certainly do not agree with its Nazi views.
GOLDEN DAWN is a systemic and not an antisystemic force, exploited by the bourgeois political system in its tactics of highlighting terrorist dilemmas.
Such institutions and formations are strengthened when the workers' movement and its alliance with the popular forces of the self-employed in the city and the countryside are behind the demands of the political struggle.
The workers who are suffering should not be misled by slogans against the European Union, against the violation of the sovereign rights of the country, while their economic programme supports without any inhibition capital and the monopolies that have no country.
The ruling class is attempting to reform its political staff, with a new bipartisan - bipolar system that succeeds the two-party system of ND and PASOK.
There is an attempt to revive the Southwest, but also to transform social democracy with SYRIZA and the Democratic Party of Greece at its core.
The KKE played a decisive role in the political deterioration of PASOK and ND through its substantial political confrontation and exposure of the class character of their policies, through its militant initiatives, its encouragement and support of diverse struggles.
The forces of the KKE were pitted against the line of class collaboration of the GSEE and the other third-tier organisations of employer and government trade unionism, which called on the workers to negotiate how much they would lose.
On the contrary, SYRIZA, in the trade union movement and in the local administration, cooperated openly or covertly in many cases, even during the crisis period, in exchange for support and the promotion of its members to the institutions.
It is the road of socialisation of the monopolies, of the concentrated means of production, of all the means in sectors of strategic importance, exploited by scientific centralised nationwide planning of the economy, on the basis of popular needs and workers' control.
This road will unleash the untapped productive potential of Greece, which is rich in energy resources and raw materials.
It will allocate resources, human resources, on the basis of the criterion and objective of popular welfare and the elimination of regional inequalities.
It will proceed to the unilateral cancellation of the debt,
the abolition of spending on NATO's imperialist plans, the
abolition of foreign military bases and the bridgeheads of military operations for Greece's participation in an imperialist war.
On the real political question "with the monopolies or with the people", "with capital or with labour", the KKE does not walk in two boats.
It is the only party that has consistently and steadfastly proven for over nine decades that it is with the people and will not betray them.
There is hope, there is perspective!
The KKE puts even more urgently the urgent necessity for all workers to take an active role in the unions, in the sectors, in the workers' assembly at the place of work and in the sector, to change the negative correlation of forces in the organs of the workers' movement, the movement of the self-employed, the peasantry, in schools and universities, in universities of technology.
Next to this main front of rupture and counter-attack against the forces of capital, an important role is played by the popular assembly in the neighbourhood, the pupils', students' and students' assembly, every process of mass form, which raises the popular self-activity and initiative that attracts, organises and mobilises.
Only when workers take their case into their own hands, formulate decisions, control decisions, only then will they discover the deeper cause of their problems, acquire political experience, class consciousness.
Only in this way will they build the strong social alliance of subversion.
They will gain experience and experience of the possibilities of the country's development, of the possibility of conquering the social and popular well-being, far from the commitments of the European Union.
On this road of struggle they will extract concessions, make the worst difficult, prevent the worst, by constantly walking ahead on the promising road of popular governance and power.
The disengagement from the European Union, combined with the unilateral cancellation of the debt and with wealth in the hands of the people, is the optimistic perspective of the people. It will be free from the noose of the Loan Agreement and the Memoranda.
The people will become sovereign, independent and patriotic internationalists only when they control the wealth of the country, decide what to produce, determine that the purpose of production is the satisfaction of human needs.
Worker, unemployed, retired, young and young, on the next election day you need your own party, your own power to defend your wage, your pension, your unemployment benefit, to cover your immediate needs in medicine, medical care, protection from the graft, etc.
It has turned the ballot box into a set-up, centre-right and centre-left - right or left management that puts the people in a corner.
With the KKE in front!
