CONTENTSINTRODUCTION, RED LOANS, KEY MEASURES, KEY ECONOMIC POSITIONS, MONETARY POLICY 31. PROGRAMMATIC POSITIONS OF THE 'GREEK SOLUTION' FOR PRIMARY PRODUCTION 282.  PROGRAMMATIC POSITIONS OF THE 'GREEK SOLUTION' ON TOURISM 863.  PROGRAMMATIC POSITIONS OF THE 'GREEK SOLUTION' ON SHIPPING 1184.  PROGRAMMATIC POSITIONS OF THE 'GREEK SOLUTION' FOR INDUSTRY 1305.  PROGRAMMATIC POSITIONS OF THE 'GREEK SOLUTION' ON DEVELOPMENT 1326.  PROGRAMMATIC POSITIONS OF THE 'GREEK SOLUTION' ON TAXATION - TAX EVASION 1367.  PROGRAMMATIC POSITIONS OF THE 'GREEK SOLUTION' ON HEALTH 1438.  PROGRAMMATIC POSITIONS OF THE 'GREEK SOLUTION' ON DEMOCRACY AND SOCIAL SECURITY 1559.  PROGRAMMATIC POSITIONS OF THE 'GREEK SOLUTION' ON RENEWABLE ENERGY SOURCES 16210.  PROGRAMMATIC POSITIONS OF THE 'GREEK SOLUTION' ON PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION 17211.  PROGRAMMATIC POSITIONS OF THE 'GREEK SOLUTION' ON JUSTICE 17812.  PROGRAMMATIC POSITIONS OF THE 'GREEK SOLUTION' FOR INNOVATION 18113.  PROGRAMMATIC POSITIONS OF THE 'GREEK SOLUTION' ON FOREIGN POLICY 18414.  PROGRAMMATIC POSITIONS OF THE 'GREEK SOLUTION' ON NATIONAL DEFENCE 18715.  PROGRAMMATIC POSITIONS OF THE 'HELLENIC SOLUTION' ON THE SECURITY OF THE CITIZEN 1921.  PROGRAMMATIC POSITIONS OF THE 'GREEK SOLUTION' ON PARLIAMENTARIANISM 1982.  PROGRAMMATIC POSITIONS OF THE 'GREEK SOLUTION' ON IMMIGRATION 2083.  PROGRAMMATIC POSITIONS OF THE 'GREEK SOLUTION' ON THE GREEKS ABROAD AND EXPATRIATES 2124.  PROGRAMMATIC POSITIONS OF THE "GREEK SOLUTION" FOR THE DISABLES 2155.  PROGRAMMATIC POSITIONS OF THE 'GREEK SOLUTION' ON EDUCATION 2206.  PROGRAMMATIC POSITIONS OF THE 'GREEK SOLUTION' ON PRIVATE EDUCATION 233
INTRODUCTION
ELLINIKI LYSI is the only Greek political party that has the courage, the boldness, the perseverance and the political will to provide immediate and drastic SOLUTIONS to all the problems that plague our country.
In the HELLENIC SOLUTION we are free from family rule, the "fireplaces" and corruption.
It is precisely for this reason that we are determined to make every possible effort to correct the "bad texts" of politics, the economy and public life, which for so many years have prevented Greece's substantial development.
Greece meets all the conditions to become an economic superpower.
However, the destructive policies of the last decades have led it into the swamp of borrowing, over-indebtedness and memoranda!
ELLINIKI LYSI believes that Greece should not have joined the Eurozone because it was not ready to compete with the big countries.
That when it came in it unfortunately did not take action, taking advantage of its low lending rates, limiting the wastefulness of the client state and fighting it, as well as linking workers' wages to their productivity.
That it did not understand the insidious role of Germany, in terms of its wage dumping and that it was deliberately caught in a fait accompli by the 2010 government.
ELLINIKI LYSI is sure that Greece had no reason to ask for IMF assistance, since its total debt, public and private, was documented to be among the lowest in Europe.
After all, the IMF is traditionally called upon by countries that are facing problems with their currency as a result of their external debts due to current account deficits, combined with their low foreign exchange reserves.
This was not the case for Greece, since the euro is the second largest reserve currency on the planet and is not devalued by such a small Eurozone economy (in 2017 Greece had a GDP of less than 1.6% of the monetary union's GDP).
ELLINIKI LYSI believes that Greece could finance itself by internal borrowing, by issuing national bonds, before more than 100 billion € of deposits abroad, if only Greeks trusted their state, as many other nations do.
However, the IMF's intentions were clear from the fact that it did not immediately impose capital controls to prevent capital outflows, especially from foreigners, because its aim was to protect them and not to clean up the country.
ELLINIKI LYSI believes that the current disaster of our country is due to the mismanagement of the crisis by its new creditors through the Troika who lent it money to bail out their banks,
and by its governments.
That the RSI is a very big crime, since through it the whole country was mortgaged, lost the possibility of its eventual return to the national currency, did not participate in the support of the ECB in 2012, nor in the quantitative easing packages of 2015, went bankrupt and English law was imposed on it, for only 50 billion € of debt reduction!
ELLINIKI LYSI knows that the next big crimes were (a) the disastrous negotiation of 2015, which lost the banks, burdening the public debt with an additional 40 billion € and
(b) the signing of the third loan agreement by the overwhelming majority of the MPs, which resulted in all the previous ones being enshrined, as well as tying Greece hand and foot.
ELLINIKI LYSI has as its first priority the restoration of the citizens' trust in the State.
Among other things, by fighting the client and party state, since this action alone could lead the country out of the crisis,
by returning the 120 billion € of deposits that have escaped abroad to finance the economy and the consolidation of the banks,
plus the 500,000 young people with an education cost of around 100 billion € and an annual GDP of 25 billion € (public revenues of 7.5 billion € or more than 2 annual ENFIA).
ELLINIKI LYSI believes in the absolute need
(a) a National Security Council & Foreign Policy,
(b) A National Council for the Negotiation of the unsustainable public debt, which has been aggravated by the policy of the Memoranda under the responsibility of the Troika, costing our country more than 1 trillion €.
Of course, the costs must first be specified and a claim for compensation must be filed, and the following Article 340 of Maastricht will be used for the claim, but also as a negotiating card:
".... The contractual liability of the Union shall be governed by the law applicable to the contract in question.In the case of non-contractual liability, the Union shall, in accordance with the general principles common to the legal systems of the Member States, make good, in accordance with the general principles of law common to the legal systems of the Member States, any damage caused by its institutions or by its servants in the performance of their duties In accordance with the general principles of law common to the legal systems of the Member States, the European Central Bank, in the performance of its tasks, shall make good any damage caused by it or by its servants."
(c) A National Council to claim German reparations and war reparations, which according to the German scientists themselves amount to at least €180 billion, while according to the Greek Parliament it is around €280 billion.
These National Councils will be staffed with highly competent technocrats and supported by specialised international companies.
ELLINIKI LYSI wishes that the Ministry of Finance, the Bank of Greece, the National Statistical Service and the General Secretariat of Public Revenues be fully controlled by the most competent Greeks and not by foreigners,
believing that these four pillars can guarantee the progress and prosperity of the country.
ELLINIKI LYSI believes that Greece must immediately draw up a State Balance Sheet so that citizens know not only what they owe, but also what they own.
It is the party that understands that the most important thing for Greece is the recovery of public and private sector property values, where more than 600 billion euros have been lost, since this is the only way for the banks to be rehabilitated, for many citizens to keep their homes and for their lost creditworthiness to be restored.
Only then will the state and individuals be able to borrow to carry out investments, so that Greece can enter a sustainable path of growth.
The HELLENIC SOLUTION aims at a budget deficit below the 3% of the Maastricht agreement and in line with inflation.
Also a balanced current account balance that will not be based on the impoverishment imposed on our country by the memoranda, but on the production of wealth from the three main pillars of our economy:
from the primary sector,
from shipping
and from tourism,
supported by manufacturing and industry.
Our aim is to continuously reduce the debt to GDP ratio by increasing GDP,
so that it is not at the expense of the welfare of the Greek people, as the exact opposite policy of the memoranda.
Greece has enormous potential and prospects, provided that the creativity and entrepreneurship of its citizens is awakened, and as a country it is an ideal investment choice, provided that the right conditions are in place.
The Greek Solution holds that wages should be adjusted annually, remaining equal to worker productivity plus inflation, to ensure a competitive labour cost per unit of output.
ELLINIKI LYSI knows that only the prospects of sustainable growth of a country are rewarded today by domestic and international investors,
while only through growth can the country's major problems be solved,
such as unemployment,
pensions,
social security and many others.
The HELLENIC SOLUTION is HERE with detailed, time-bound and concrete proposals for the Red Loans,
for the Primary Sector, the
Economy,
Foreign Policy,
Education,
Public Administration,
dealing with Unemployment,
the exploitation of Renewable Energy Sources,
Promoting Investment,
Developing Tourism and Shipping,
Re-industrialisation,
Supporting Innovation,
Restructuring the Health System,
Controlling Illegal Migration,
Supporting Greeks Abroad and Homogenous Greeks, and
Creating a Welfare State.
All our proposals put the national interest at the centre.
IN THE GREEK SOLUTION WE BELIEVE THAT IT IS IN THE INTEREST OF GREECE TO BROADEN ITS ORIENTATION.
That is why we are looking everywhere, claiming for Greece not the position of the beggar of the West, but the position of a strong and equal partner and ally.
With a deep love for Greece and careful strategic planning, we declare that we are PRESENT and READY to take over the reins of the country.
TOGETHER WE CAN GET GREECE OUT OF THE SWAMP THAT THE DESTRUCTIVE POLICIES OF THE LAST DECADES HAVE THROWN IT INTO
THE GREEK SOLUTION HAS THE SOLUTION TO GET GREECE OUT OF THE END OF THE MEMORANDA OF UNDERDEVELOPMENT AND REGRESSION.
WE ARE DIFFERENT FROM THE OTHERS AND WE PROVE IT IN PRACTICE WITH OUR GOVERNANCE PROGRAMME
OUR COMPASS IS THE NATIONAL INTEREST
ELLINIKI LYSI has clear, detailed and concrete proposals that provide SOLUTIONS to all the problems that plague the country.
The solutions we propose - always with the social and national interest in mind - are realistic, practical, clear, innovative, innovative, alternative, directly applicable and efficient.
These are solutions that none of the memorandum parties had the political will, the courage and the determination to propose.
Therefore, we call on all Greeks to follow us and become part of our vision for a free, proud and independent Homeland.
The proposals of the HELLENIC SOLUTION for the governance of the country concern:The reconstruction of the Greek Economy, with emphasis primarily on Primary Production including its manufacturing and specifically on the sectors:
Agri-food.
Livestock.
Production of dairy products.
Healthy Plant Production (Greenhouse Crops, Cultivation of Herbs and "Superfoods" (dual purpose).
Fisheries and Fish Farming.
ELLINIKI LYSI believes that the only way out for the economic development of Greece is "real wealth creation".
ELLINIKI LYSI seeks to create a strong and economically robust Greece, believing that the basis for achieving this goal is primarily the strengthening of agricultural / livestock production and fisheries.
For ELLINIKI LYSI, supporting farmers, farmers and fishermen is an obligation and a national duty, because they are the basis of the national economy and keep the Greek periphery alive.
The primary sector can offer a lot to the country if it is treated as a "boutique", in the sense that special attention should be paid to products in which Greece has great competitive advantages due to its climate and terrain.
A key element is the use of scientific methods with the help of modern technology, proper processing and packaging, rational distribution networks, consistency and quality of deliveries.
So it's not just farming and breeding, but many other things.
In the example of the Netherlands, it produces about $14 billion in agricultural products (1.6% of its GDP), while in 2017 it exported $101 billion, while Greece produces $8.2 billion (4.1% of its GDP according to the WFB - about €12 billion according to others) and exports less than $6 billion.
The Netherlands is of course an international transit centre, but so could Greece in its region.
Of course, much of what is needed for the agricultural sector, such as greenhouses, should be built in our country,
noting that in Greece there are less than 50,000 acres of greenhouses,
while in one region of Spain alone there are 600,000 acres.
Other examples of successful agricultural production are Israel and New Zealand.
The development of tourism, with an emphasis on services such as room and house rental platforms, as well as travel companies.
Tourism should also be treated as a "Boutique" and not so much on arrivals as on revenue, so that our tourism infrastructure is not destroyed by thousands of low-income visitors.
Measures are proposed for the development of both general tourism and alternative forms of tourism, namely:Cultural and archaeological tourismReligious - pilgrimage tourismHealth and wellness tourismAgricultural tourism (Agrotourism)Marine tourismGastronomic tourismMonotourismEco-tourismMountain and ski tourismEducational tourism
ELLINIKI LYSI considers tourism as one of the heavy industries of our country, so it has proposals in all possible areas of tourism development.
Particular emphasis is given to tourists from Russia, whose citizens are particularly eager to visit Greece, not only to enjoy the sea, the sun and the traditional cuisine, but also to worship in our Holy Monasteries and Churches, where holy relics and relics are kept.
The development of shipping. ELLINIKI LYSI believes that shipping, if combined with growth in the primary economy, international trade and tourism, can contribute substantially to the restart of Greece's economy.
The re-industrialisation of the country, starting from manufacturing and supported by primary production, tourism and shipping.
Growth, with an emphasis on investment and entrepreneurship,
in a state that is not bureaucratically structured, but with as simple procedures as possible, as well as friendly to businesses, foreign and Greek.
It emphasises simple laws and rules that everyone can understand, but which will be strictly observed by everyone without exception.
ELLINIKI LYSI believes that public utilities, strategic and monopolistic profitable enterprises should be owned by the public sector, operating according to private economic criteria, while all others should be owned by the private sector.
But before they are privatised, they should recover their real value and not the value that is the result of the crisis and the recession.
He prefers, of course, that they be privatised by Greeks, both to keep their profits at home and to keep down the inflows of foreign capital that have led many countries to bankruptcy, when foreign capital flows out en masse.
ELLINIKI LYSI has a strategic plan, which has been derived from years of study and research, to lead Greece on the road to growth and prosperity in a short period of time.
The introduction of a new tax system that is stable over time.
Excessive taxation of citizens and the imposition of taxes on top of existing taxes is by definition a failed method of raising government revenue.
Excessive taxation,
the swelling of citizens' debts to the state,
the zero revenue to the public coffers
and the imposition of new taxes
are leading the Greek economy into a deep and prolonged recession!
At the same time, citizens are becoming poorer and poorer every year,
while the private sector, which was the "engine" of the economy and fed the state insurance funds, has now been dismantled!
ELLINIKI LYSI believes that tax rates should be competitive with neighbouring countries
in order to attract businesses
and not to force both Greek and foreign companies to emigrate.
Especially as regards ENFIA, the aim is to reduce it by 40%, as well as
to adopt deductions and exemptions - for example, for properties that are not rented.
ELLINIKI LYSI has prepared proposals that can be implemented immediately and help to create a fair tax system and facilitate the payment of taxes.
The consolidation, restructuring and modernisation of the Health System.
The HELLENIC SOLUTION has as its main priority the restructuring of Public Health, in order to ensure quality living for all Greeks!
ELLINIKI LYSI believes that no Greek should be deprived of the good of Health!
Demographics, pensions and the insurance system in general, which is a bomb to the foundations of the Greek economy
ELLINIKI LYSI believes that demographics leads to the extinction of the nation if no immediate measures are taken
and that the insurance system, along with pensions, is the absolute priority of the country's government, aiming at a sustainable system for Greeks.
The development of Renewable Energy Sources.
ELLINIKI LYSI, knowing that Greece's underground energy wealth is vast, but it will take time to contribute to the economy (although under certain conditions a part of it could be securitized, helping the country's financing), has designed a specific energy policy, focusing on the following key areas: renewable energy sources, energy saving and rational use of energy.
The radical restructuring of the Public Administration so that it is efficient, with minimal bureaucracy.
The rationalisation of the Justice Performance System
Taking measures to support Innovation and start-ups.
In Greece of crisis and recession, fortunately there are still many Greeks who resist with innovative ideas and patents!
ELLINIKI LYSI feels obliged to support these Greeks and help them in the implementation and application of their innovative ideas!
ELLINIKI LYSI supports Greek innovation and considers it as one of the drivers of growth and restarting the economy!
The Hellenic Solution believes that all sectors of the country should generate revenues and profits.
For example (a) the launch of private education which can provide revenues of 5% of GDP as in Cyprus (9 billion € GDP in Greece, over 100.000jobs, 3 billion € revenue to the state or almost an ENFIA),
(b) the development of the defence industry to meet domestic needs plus exports,
(c) Citizen security, which in Israel has developed into a major industry
(d) Health with the establishment of nursing homes for foreigners (e) Care for the elderly with modern nursing homes etc.
Taking measures for Foreign Policy
Taking measures for National Defence, with a National Council that will guarantee a stable policy over time in terms of foreign relations, defence and security.
Taking measures for the security of the citizen.
The total restructuring of the Parliamentary System, aiming at the gradual adoption of direct democracy according to the Swiss model implemented in the country by the excellent I. Kapodistrias.
The HELLENIC SOLUTION, being FULLY aware of the VALUE of parliamentarianism and the CRISIS of the period, proposes the specific measures that will upgrade this institution and make Greeks feel secure and that everyone is EQUAL to the LAW, without ANY EXCEPTION!!
Taking measures to tackle illegal immigration and returning illegal migrants to their countries of origin.
In recent years, Greek Citizens tend to become a minority in Greece!
The proposals of the HELLENIC SOLUTION for dealing with illegal immigration have at their core the national interest and the security of Greece and the Greeks!
Greeks must take back our homeland and preserve our language, culture and religion!
Taking measures to support and strengthen ties with Greeks abroad and the Greek community.
Outside the borders of Greece there is a second Greece!
It is the Greek immigrants and the expatriate Greeks who love Greece more than the Greeks who have remained in the country!
ELLINIKI LYSI believes that the need to support Greeks abroad and the Greek community is more urgent than ever.
Taking measures to create a real welfare state, with an emphasis on citizens with disabilities.
The Greek State has always been callous and indifferent to the needs of people with disabilities.
Past governments have treated people with disabilities as second-class citizens.
ELLINIKI LYSI is here to defend the rights of Greek citizens with disabilities and special abilities,
who for so many years have been sidelined by governments and have been on the margins of social life.
Taking measures to restructure education.
For ELLINIKI LYSI it is imperative that Greek education be radically restructured,
because only in this way can the continuity of Hellenism and our Orthodoxy be ensured!
The proposals of the HELLENIC SOLUTION are the result of painstaking research that has at its core the National Interest and the Welfare of the Greeks!
Private education to increase the country's revenue.
Regardless of the above, ELLINIKI LYSI believes that red loans are a huge problem for Greece and a major obstacle to its development.
So, before even analysing its programmatic positions, it considers that it should give an overview of red loans and propose its own solutions, as well as give a brief overview of the economic policy and economic measures it will adopt.
It is also right to make a small reference to the monetary policy it proposes, also before its main programmatic positions and after the red loans.
RED LOANS
There are two categories of red loans (a) personal, mortgage and consumer loans,
as well as (b) business.
Personal: The solution for consumer and mortgage loans involving individuals would be much simpler, but it would require planning:
that is, to have a proper Bankruptcy Law for individuals, as is done in civilized countries, which would have significant consequences for the person who invokes it.
But the Katseli Law (which in its explanatory memorandum tries to establish Bankruptcy Law for natural persons) had no effect on the person who invokes it, so they all appeal and everything they can achieve.
Apart from the few cases where debtors have been exempted from their loans under the Katseli Law, most of those who have sought its protection and had their claim rejected are multiply damaged.
For as long as the debts were outstanding, they were not servicing their loans and now that their appeal has been rejected, they have much more (interest and interest rates) to pay.
It basically hurt both banks and borrowers.
We note here that there are appeals for which a trial date of 2032 has been set!!!
And one more thing that proves the sloppiness of the original law.
It has been amended five times (Law 3996, Government Gazette A 170/05.08.2011, Law 4019, Government Gazette A 216/30.09.2011, Law 4161, Government Gazette A 143/14.06.2013, Law 4336, Government Gazette A 94/14.08.2015 and Law 4346, Government Gazette A 152/20.11.2015) to reach its current form, but it is still not effective.
Business loans.
We have been obliged (for about two years now) by the third Memorandum to proceed with the so-called "out-of-court settlement" N4469/2017.
In other words, the immediate settlement of defaulted loans so that the economy can function.
As regards the substance of out-of-court settlement, its progress so far has been disappointing.
A number of modifications are required to be made to the supporting documents and the way the debtor submits them in order to speed up the procedure.
The examination of adjustment requests by the Public Creditors (AADE, KEAEO) should be modified and the appropriate EROs should be issued in order to clear them sooner than the other Creditors.
Auctions: The first phase of auction implementation has changed the landscape of red mortgages,
as fear of losing property has led many borrowers to opt out of the arrangement with banks.
These arrangements have increased by at least 20% since the start of electronic auctions, while the fact that mortgage loans are covered by the properties financed significantly increases the bargaining power of creditors.
It is a given that the banks do not want to keep the cheap properties themselves, as this does not guarantee their value and at the same time their capital problem remains, but they are willing to find a solution so that the loan can start to be repaid.
Banks also expect that this trend will strengthen as the months pass and the number of divestments through the notaries' electronic platform increases.
We note here that 30,000 auctions are scheduled for 2019.
According to reports, creditors are implementing the following measures in order to provide incentives for debtors to come forward to settle their debts:
Settlement of the debt: The original terms of the loan are adjusted to reduce the monthly payment to levels that are reasonable for the customer's financial circumstances.
This can happen as follows:A reduction in the interest rate: The annual cost of servicing the loan is reduced in this way, while the monthly instalment is also adjusted to a lower level.
Extension of the loan term: The time to full repayment of the loan, depending on the age of the borrower, is extended and can be up to 40 years.
In this way, the monthly instalment is significantly and permanently reduced.
Loan separation: The debt is split into two parts, that corresponding to the market value of the property, which is normally serviced, and that which is "frozen" for a period of time.
A combination of lengthening and interest rate reduction.
The above two solutions can be applied in combination, ensuring the reduction of the monthly instalment, while limiting the interest.
Payment of part of the instalment: for a period of 2 to 15 years the borrower pays part of the instalment, which may include interest or principal.
Final loan settlement.
With the final settlement solutions designed by the banks, it is possible to discharge the borrower from the debt as follows:
Voluntary surrender of the property: The borrower surrenders the property and the bank forgives up to 100% of the debt.
Lease of property: It is suggested that the client exchange his house for the entire debt and continue to live in it by paying rent to the bank.
However, there is also the possibility to "haircut" part of the debt, especially in cases where the debt significantly exceeds the market value of the property, for example by exchanging a property for a smaller one.
In this way, the debt is significantly "trimmed" by the difference between the market value of the new property and the original loan balance.
ELLINIKI LYSI, knowing that the banks will sell mortgages at a maximum of 40% of their value (thus with a "haircut" of 60%) and consumer loans at 3% (thus with a "haircut" of 97%), proposes the following:
The "haircut" of mortgages by 30%, roughly equal to the fall in the country's GDP, provided that the borrower agrees to a one-off payment.
Besides, the banks have already written off 52% of their loans (provisions) and will therefore enjoy tax benefits for many years to come.
The "haircut" of consumer loans by 80%, if the borrower agrees to pay them in one lump sum.
Alternatively, the other methods of the banks, but these must be institutionalized along with the above methods by the state.
In any case, it is unacceptable for a borrower to lose their home and remain in debt to the bank,
so legislation to oblige banks to write off 100% of the loan on delivery of the home is an absolute priority.
We all know that when it comes to loans, it is not only the debtor who is to blame, but also the lender,
and the lending policy of the banks before the crisis was often irresponsible and disastrous.
In any case, until recently, red mortgages amounted to €28 billion, of which only €12 billion were for first homes.
So the problem can be solved, as long as there is political will.
KEY ACTIONS
Cleaning up Greece with a Balance Sheet published on the internet, so that Citizens know not only what the state owes,
but also what it owns, assessed at current prices - from land and real estate, to schools, roads and state-owned companies.
Double-entry accounting system, e-government, reintroduction of the institution of Directors-General in the public sector, etc.
Adopting a fair and competitive tax system with surrounding countries, while strengthening the control mechanism and launching a business-friendly framework.
Production of wealth, with the focus on the Primary Sector (central planning), together with its processing, as well as Tourism -
where these two sectors must function as "Boutiques", with quality products, taking advantage of our country's competitive advantages.
The third pillar is Shipping, with the creation of the right infrastructure to attract ship management in the first place - a sector that can provide a GDP of over €25 billion and 500,000 jobs.
In addition, wealth generation (a) from renewable energy sources
(b) from the defence/security industry, with the reactivation of closed plants
(c) from the operation of private Universities capable of generating a GDP of 9 billion €, public revenues equal to one annual ENFIA and 100,000 jobs as well as
(d) from private health care.
Immediately launch a private supplementary currency, such as those in circulation in Switzerland or Germany - so as to increase liquidity in the country.
Solving the problem of red loans on first home loans (around €12 billion), through a state agency, which
will buy them at 48% of their value in order not to reduce the banks' capital - along with the establishment of a state investment bank of the type of ETVA of the past or the German KfW.
Stopping privatisations until state-owned enterprises regain their real value, while at the same time promoting measures for their consolidation - with particular attention to the PPC, which is being systematically and deliberately devalued, with the aim of selling it off, when it could be operating with €1.5 billion in annual profits and have a market value of €11.5 billion (instead of €300 million today!) like the Portuguese one.
National Councils for (a) Security,
(b) Claiming German debts and
(c) Dealing with the debt by means of compensation claims under Article 340 of Maastricht.
KEY ECONOMIC MEASURES
Child benefit: For all children of Greek nationals with tax residence in Greece, under the age of 18.
When they are not working or are unemployed, then until they reach the age of 21.
The allowance will be €150 per month for the first child, €170 for the second, €190 for the third and €210 for each subsequent child.
It is given either directly to weak families with incomes below the minimum tax-free threshold, or as a tax relief to the rest, if it suits them better.
Tax rates for legal persons (companies): reduction to 15% with a 50% advance tax, with the limitation of the dividend tax to 10% and the complete abolition of the tax on business activities, as well as the special solidarity contribution.
10% discount on the one-off payment, automatic set-off of debts and refunds.
No tax for the first five years for new and innovative businesses, as well as the possibility of higher depreciation on new fixed asset investments in half the time, electronic linking of all transactions.
Tax rates for individuals: tax-free income up to 12.000 €, 15% tax up to 20.000 €, 25% from 20.000 € to 50.000 € and 35% for all other incomes, whatever they may be.
Abolition of presumptions and a 10% discount on the one-off payment.
Limitation of the tax code to 50 pages, automatic closure of companies after two years of non-operation.
VAT: Immediate reduction of the rate to 20%, gradually to 15%, with a special scheme for food and medicines, as well as lawyer's fees halved (10% and 7.5% later).
On the islands and in the border areas at 7%.
Increase the VAT threshold to 30,000 € turnover per year from 10,000 € today and abolish it for new construction activities for a period of five years.
ENFIA: Reduction of the rate by 40%, with a 40% tax credit for energy renovation and 20% for aesthetics.
Suspension for buildings that are not rented, depending on the period of non-rental.
Zeroing out past debts for buildings without electricity connection which automatically means that they were uninhabitable for that period of time.
Insurance contributions: Limit them by 2% annually, up to a minimum of 10% for all.
Participation of patients' contribution for medicines at 10%.
Abolish the Katrougalos law,
restore widow's pensions to previous levels
and ensure decent pensions, fully contributory.
Bank red loans: Zeroing out the loan if the owner surrenders the house to the bank.
A radical solution to the problem of red loans on first home loans (around €12 billion), with the creation of a state-owned management company that will buy them from the banks at the price after deducting their provisions (below 48% of their value).
For the rest, institutionalisation of the banks' haircut proposals etc.
Overdue debts to the state, its agencies and social security funds: Removal of all surcharges and excessive interest.
Their settlement with monthly instalments based on income criteria and with an interest rate equal to that of the public sector.
Insured-uninsured self-employed persons: Write off 50% of their unpaid contributions after 2010;
recalculate contributions based on their annual income;
deduct the medical contribution because the professional was uninsured;
deduct illegal interest and surcharges since the professional's contributions are individual and not employer contributions;
adjusting the amount that will be generated to be able to pay the current contributions and be able to pay it off by the time they retire.
Minimum wage: an increase of €100 and then an
annual adjustment, slightly lower than worker productivity and inflation, to continuously improve the competitiveness of the economy.
Reduction of the salaries and pensions of MPs by 30%, as much as everyone else.
Special cases: Refund of excise duty to farmers and restoration of the heating allowance to previous levels, before the change of criteria.
Central planning of the primary sector and support for investments in manufacturing, as well as in industry, with their promotion by tourism with tax incentives to cover all its needs with Greek products.
Tax incentives to promote research and development, especially in pharmaceuticals, food and high technology.
Incentives for shipping, such as the creation of a special area with full security, infrastructure and a special tax regime, along the lines of Monaco.
MONETARY POLICY
ELLINIKI LYSI believes that all countries should be prepared for any break-up of the Eurozone, with Germany and the policy it has adopted since the adoption of the Euro (wage dumping), producing surpluses at the expense of all its other partners.
Especially after the start of the European debt crisis that it caused by denying Greece the support it should have had.
In this context, a specialised team has undertaken the preparation of a plan to prepare a parallel fiscal currency, exclusively for emergency purposes, but compatible with Eurozone legislation in order to be legal.
Also a private currency for immediate adoption, as exists in other countries, in order to increase the liquidity of the Greek economy.
The parallel currency
As far as the parallel currency is concerned, there are many different proposals, and the idea was discussed before the creation of the euro - in the sense of initially introducing the euro as a complement to the national currencies, so that the subsequent full transition would be smoother.
This idea was rejected, probably by Germany, which had also not retained the "eastern mark" after its unification - despite the fact that its then finance minister (O. Lafontaine) had been in favour of it.
In fact, of course, in modern financial markets no licence is needed to print money, since bonds are money - so a country is able to print small zero-coupon bonds of small value, such as IOUs, which do not formally have the status of legal tender that is forbidden by the Eurozone treaties.
This can create a source of liquidity for those states that are unable to borrow from the bond markets - while another possibility is "tax credit certificates" (TCCs), such as the "tax currency" mentioned by Italy, in its various forms.
In this way a government effectively "securitizes" the future tax liabilities of its citizens, creating a tax credit that is not counted towards the public debt -
and may increase their demand if, for example, employers are forced to pay any increase in their employees' wages with this "currency" or the public sector its employees and suppliers.
Besides, to protect banks' balance sheets, the government could tax withdrawals and transfers abroad at the rate of their discount to the euro -
noting that because labour costs would be shared between the euro and the new parallel currency, they would be reduced in euro terms.
It would therefore increase the country's competitiveness and help exports - especially those that are labour-intensive, such as tourism.
A historical example of now "IOU" currencies are those adopted in 2009 in California, alongside the dollar - which were later bought out by the state when the crisis was addressed.
Also those circulated in the U.S. during the civil war by the North, to finance the cost of the war - or by Argentina during the 2001 debt crisis, although it was only in preparation for the unpegging of its currency from the dollar.
Of course, none of these efforts have lasted long enough to be able to judge whether they help to raise the competitiveness of a country - obviously not even in the context of a monetary union such as the Eurozone.
Perhaps only the case of Alberta in 1936 is similar, where when such a program was started the unemployed were paid with $1 certificates - which two years later were redeemed for $1 Canadian.
In any case, the volatility and relative illiquidity of such currencies do not make them popular with their recipients -
and it is believed that if a 1:1 exchange rate against the euro were fixed, everyone would try to exchange them immediately, resulting in a short-circuiting of the system.
We recall here the Gresham Act, according to which:
"If a government devalues by law, that is, artificially, one kind of currency, in relation to another, then the devalued currency will either leave the country, or disappear from circulation, because it will be accumulated (not spent) by its holders."
The private currency
Now, as far as Complementary Currencies are concerned, they are not national currencies, they are not usually legal tender and their use is based on the agreement of those who exchange them with each other.
And there are already several of them in circulation in various countries, including Germany, so the ECB could have no objection whatsoever - and they would certainly be a help to Greece, in its current dire situation.
Very interesting in this respect is the complementary Swiss WIR system - which under certain conditions Greece could adopt immediately.
More specifically, the "economic cooperation circle" was founded in Switzerland in 1934 by 16 people - imitating the Danish cooperative J.A.K. (Afregningscentralen), which had adopted, in the same year, an identical "cashless payment settlement system".
The aim of this movement, which was granted a banking licence in 1936, was to address the major liquidity problems created by the global financial crisis -
where both businesses and households were "storing" their money instead of investing it, resulting in a deepening liquidity crisis and credit squeeze.
Further, the "circle of economic cooperation" was founded by entrepreneurs, by very capable and active professionals at their best, who were not prepared to expect help from anyone but themselves.
In this context, they created the complementary currency "WIR", which was based on S. Gesell's theory of "free exchange" - according to which money should be the servants of man and not his "perpetual" oppressors.
The value of this currency, which has since circulated in Switzerland in parallel, is pegged to the Swiss franc at a 1:1 exchange rate - and its main feature is freedom from the slavery of interest.
The main objective of the "movement", the group that created the "WIR", was to increase the circulation of money - which, saved due to the crisis and deflation, was dangerously reducing liquidity.
Therefore, a "faster recycling incentive" had to be given to the holders of the new currency - which were mainly Swiss small and medium-sized enterprises.
This incentive, on the basis of which the enterprises that traded with each other with the "WIR" did not save it at all, so their turnover increased, was the interest-free nature of their deposits -
so, since they did not receive interest, i.e. they did not profit from their capital, they looked for other ways of profitability by investing it.
At the beginning of the currency, not only were deposits in the bank (alternative financial system) created for this purpose not interest-bearing but, on the contrary, "savings" were charged with an amount to cover its operating costs - so that
the incentive to "recycle" money was even greater (even today, deposits in "WIR" are interest-free).
The private initiative changed its name in 1998 to "WIR cooperative bank" - which,
in addition to its normal banking functions, maintains the parallel monetary system "WIR", which supports the activity of small and medium-sized enterprises.
At the end of 2012, the Basel-based "WIR cooperative bank" employed 208 people, with a total balance sheet of 4.013 billion francs - of which 855.3 billion francs were in WIR (official name of the currency CHW) and 2.6 billion francs (CHF).
The turnover of WIR-equivalent francs was in the order of 1.46 billion.
Furthermore, according to the statutes of the system, its purpose is to strengthen the participants, to facilitate transactions between them, as well as to ensure greater turnover for all its member companies - while the settlement of transactions is done without cash money.
A cheque-type paper is used as a transaction medium, which is essentially a deposit order, as well as a "WIR payment order".
In addition, there is the corresponding "credit card", which is mainly used in retail and gastronomy - where customers can transact with this currency, francs, or a combination of both.
Electronic banking is also possible, and an online banking system has been operational since 2008.
The complementary financial system involves 50,0 SMEs from all over Switzerland - as well as more than 10,000 individuals with a "WIR" bank account. Τ
And four exhibitions are organised annually in different cities, where exhibitors meet their customers - in order to promote and strengthen their business with each other.
In the Member State, at the entrances of those shops or hotels which accept transactions in full or in part with the WIR, there is a sign indicating this.
Continuing, the money is created by the WIR bank approving loans, where the borrower provides an asset as a mortgage, as collateral rather than a guarantee - as is the case with all other banks.
This means that the WIR bank creates money out of thin air on its own -
just like the Swiss central bank, which "leads" the franc financial system.
Deposits in WIRs are not backed by Swiss francs - while loans, aimed at investments of all kinds, are guaranteed by real estate, through other banks, by life insurance, etc.
The bank has no cost of creating money, nor of "refinancing" the loans it makes - so it charges extremely low interest rates to cover its operating costs.
Furthermore, although the official exchange rate between the WIR and the Swiss franc is 1:1, it is usually exchanged at a lower rate in the real market - with the result that the system's management has prohibited (in 1973) the exchange of the WIR to its members for francs or other currencies.
And a penalty has been introduced for those members who break the law, under which they are "removed" from the system - while paying a high fee.
The WIR bank behaves so strictly because it does not want the currency to be "sabotaged" - and because everyone knows its importance, especially in times of crisis, which no country avoids, the efforts to preserve it are collective.
Finally, in 2000 WIR Bank expanded its operations to non-members of the system - so as to further increase its loans to small and medium-sized enterprises and households.
Of course, the bank does not invest in the stock markets, nor anywhere else - since its purpose is solely to lend to the real economy, and obviously to boost the turnover and liquidity of the country's small and medium-sized enterprises.
THE GREEK SOLUTION IS THE ONLY PARTY THAT CAN OFFER REALISTIC AND IMMEDIATELY IMPLEMENTABLE SOLUTIONS FOR GREECE!
We WANT change, with the aim of developing the country and relieving citizens.
WE ARE free from partisan and petty political interests.
WE CALL on all Greeks to join us for the RESURRECTION of GREECE.
Come with us, to create a Greece that is self-sufficient, strong, independent and economically robust.
Greeks CAN and MUST take the country back into our hands!
All that is needed is a strategic plan aimed at the national interest and strong political will.
In ELLINIKI LYSI we have both, calling on all Greeks to follow us!
Our first concern is to regain the confidence of the citizens in the State, in the State, which will bring back savings of more than €100 billion, making it possible, among other things, to finance growth.
SUPPORT OUR VISION SO THAT WE CAN ALL REALIZE IT TOGETHER
PROGRAMMATIC POSITIONS OF THE 'GREEK SOLUTION' FOR PRIMARY PRODUCTION
The primary sector of production is not only the foundation of the economy but also the key factor in the economic reconstruction of a state.
Therefore, the agricultural sector and the sectors of plant and animal production can become the main driver of the Greek economy's recovery.
The primary concern of HELLENIC SOLUTION is to support, strengthen and develop the neglected sector of Primary Production.
ELLINIKI LYSI believes that the profession of the farmer should be given prestige, with the appropriate three-month training according to the standards of successful countries and with the provision of a diploma.
The aim of the HELLENIC SOLUTION is to attract young people and investments, through which production could be tripled and exports multiplied, solving the problem of our trade deficit.
ELLINIKI LYSI knows that the proper use of European programs, PPPs and the productive potential of Greece, if properly presented to investors, along with the return of Greek savings, can resolve the issue of financing, ensuring the resources that will be needed for the implementation of its projects.
By way of introduction, Greece in the primary sector must operate on the one hand with central planning and on the other hand with the adoption of two basic forms of organization: auctions and cooperatives.
In this respect the following: Auctions and how they operate An auction
is a conventionally or digitally organised market for agricultural products, in which
producers offer their products to interested buyers at freely negotiated prices, while the negotiation, the formation of the final price per product, the related sales and payments take place within the auction.
Participants in this process are willing to offer a certain amount of money to obtain the product.
Usually, the product is registered to the person who has made the best offer, i.e. the highest price.
In addition, it is possible for traders to participate in the process in person or remotely, using the internet.
The sellers of the products pay the auction house or the auctioneers' committee a percentage of the amount of sales they achieve.
The operation of auctions is based on the institution of the auction.
The creation of agricultural auctions is a good investment that could contribute to development.
The agricultural sector, which is one of the driving forces of our economy, will be strengthened and further developed.
Auction houses for agricultural products shall be organised and managed as public limited companies, the share capital of which shall include
the Collective Agricultural Organisations, the locally competent Regional Authorities and local authorities, private individuals,
and the State, represented by the Ministry of Rural Development and Food.
Auction companies also include chambers of commerce and interested individuals.
Regional and Local Authorities and SAOs (Collective Agricultural Organisations) must control at least 51% of their share capital (LAW 4015/FEK 210/A/21.9.2011).
Private producers and cooperatives can sell their products at auctions.
The sellers may sign multiannual contracts for the disposal of their production with the auction house on terms and with guarantees agreed upon or predetermined by the auction house.
Auction houses shall dispose of agricultural products traded through them, provided that they have been sorted and standardised beforehand.
Purpose - operation of the auctions
Auctions are attended by sellers of agricultural products who hold the sales licence provided for in each case, as well as traders who have previously been registered in the Register of Traders in Agricultural Products, Supplies and Inputs.
The settlement of commercial transactions carried out by the auction houses, including the payment of producers of agricultural products, may not exceed thirty (30) days from the disposal of these products through the auction houses.
Violation of the producers' repayment deadline entails the administrative sanctions and tax consequences of Article 6 of Law No. 3955/2011.
By joint decision of the Ministers of Development, Competitiveness and Shipping and Rural Development and Food, the establishment of auction houses may be decided.
The same decision shall determine the initial composition of the share capital and the provisions of their statutes.
Functions of the auction:Collection of agricultural products
Specialised storage and preservation of products
Sorting, standardisation and packaging of products
Negotiation through the Auction House
Organisation and assembly of cargoes
Grouping of products from different origins to common destinations
Advisory support for producers
Contribute to the availability of products at the best price
They require organisation and concentration of supply
Administrative support for the assembly, handling and control of products
As a general rule, they work for fresh fruit and vegetables
They act as a commodity exchange
Cooperatives
A cooperative is an autonomous association of persons formed voluntarily to address their common economic, social and cultural needs and aspirations through a jointly owned and democratically managed enterprise.
It is based on the values of self-help, self-responsibility, democratic equality, equity and solidarity.
It is a form of economic activity and provides services that are necessary, useful and desirable, economically and socially.
It ensures the presence on the market of small economic units, which would have been eliminated by the competitive power of large enterprises.
It ensures the employment and income of its members and the effective functioning of competition in the market for the benefit of society as a whole.
Its aim is to optimise the economic and social situation of its members through specific values and principles.
Principles
Voluntary and free participation
Democratic management by members
Financial participation of members
Autonomy and independence
Education, training and information
Cooperation between cooperatives
Interest in the community
Agricultural Cooperatives in Denmark and the Netherlands
The main characteristic of agricultural cooperatives is that they are developed by sector of production, such as milk or meat, covering the whole country or a large region.
The most important products in Denmark are dairy products, which are managed by the dairy cooperatives, which are among the oldest in the country and trade about 90% of the total milk and butter production, as well as about 80% of the cheese production.
The Agricultural Feeders' Cooperative in Denmark imports and trades 50% of fertilisers and animal feed, offering its members good prices and agronomic advice.
The member of the Board of Directors is obliged to deliver a minimum quantity of the product produced or the entire quantity to the cooperative.
The entire quantity must be delivered by those who are members of the dairy cooperative.
This ensures a large quantity of product to be managed by the Agricultural Cooperatives and spreads the operating costs over a larger quantity of product, resulting in lower operating costs per unit of product.
In Denmark, the largest cheese cooperative was developed, which by merging with its Swedish counterpart became the well-known large multinational company Arla.
Netherlands
In the Netherlands, agricultural cooperatives carry out only one activity.
There are fruit and vegetable marketing cooperatives, milk processing and marketing cooperatives, insurance and credit cooperatives, agricultural supply cooperatives, etc.
Farmers in the Netherlands can be members of more than four cooperatives.
The 2000 Agricultural Cooperatives in the Netherlands are organised in 25 Central Organisations by sector of production.
The Central Organisations are organised in a national organisation, the National Cooperative Council, which aims to promote the interests of the cooperatives against the government and the traders.
Agricultural cooperatives in the Netherlands trade 50% of agricultural products and therefore play an important role in the Dutch economy.
Europe's largest dairy cooperative is based in the Netherlands and has expanded as a multinational company in many countries around the world, including our country.
It is the Friesland Company (NUNU), which resulted from the merger of the two largest dairy cooperatives in the Netherlands.
On the contrary, in our country, in recent years the Agricultural Cooperative has been inactive.
It is necessary for Greek farmers to change their mentality and behaviour and to understand the necessity and usefulness of cooperation,
to apply the values and principles of the cooperative institution, to
reject partisanship and clientelism from cooperatives
and to take more interest in their production process with the aim of greater economic progress.
Then they will contribute to the restart and development of the cooperative movement in Greece for its own economic and social benefit.
Key findings
Unfortunately, from the early 1980s until a few years ago, there was a widespread misconception that the fewer farmers, the more economically developed the state!
Moreover, all Greek governments, since the post-independence period, have shown criminal indifference to the Primary Sector of Greece, even going so far as to encourage farmers to uproot their crops, arguing that this would ensure compensation from the EU!
Thus, we have reached the disintegration of the Greek economy and the country has become completely dependent, even for the provision of basic foodstuffs.
In particular, agricultural production in Greece until recently amounted to 6.5% of GDP or €12.1 billion, while out of the 132,000,000 hectares of the total surface area of the country, 25.78% or 34,037,000 hectares (excluding pastures).
There are 800.0 farms, with an average area of 44 hectares, while the value of the livestock sector amounts to 15% of agricultural production.
The labour force employed in agriculture has fallen below 16%, down from 28% in 1981, and only 10% of farmers are full-time farmers.
It is extremely important that the most important sector, the processing of agricultural production, is in decline, with the result that the trade deficit in agricultural products is constantly widening.
On the other hand, the planet has entered a new agricultural era, in the sense that in order for the modern farmer to be able to produce, he has to use many services and inputs that were not necessary in the past, while they shape, together with labour and everything else, the final cost of the products.
Unfortunately, however, most of these are imported into Greece from other countries, so that for every 1 euro that farmers produce, about 0.90 € are exported outside the country, for example for the purchase of the following:
seeds: Almost all of them are imported from the Netherlands, USA, Japan, Israel, Italy, France.
Vegetation: Imports from Lithuania, Germany, the Netherlands, Finland.
Agricultural machinery and spare parts: Imported from Italy, Germany, Netherlands, USA.
Automation and environmental control systems: Germany, France, Italy.
Fertilizers: Germany, Israel, Italy, USA.
Greenhouses: They are largely imported from the Netherlands, Israel, France, Italy, while we have very few (less than 50,000 acres, when Almeria in Spain alone, with half the area of the Peloponnese, has 680,000!).
Shade nets: Italy, Israel
Pumping equipment, plant protection products, technical equipment, commercial vehicles and other means of transport, packaging materials, irrigation equipment, yokes, packing plants, refrigerators, animal feed, breeding stock, etc. - almost all of them imported from other countries.
Even wage labour in agricultural production is imported, since migrants from Albania, Bulgaria, Romania, Skopje, Pakistan, India, Iraq, Egypt and elsewhere are usually employed, "exporting" part of their incomes at the expense of our economy.
One of the big problems of farmers that the state is unable to solve is that most migrants are undocumented and cannot be legally registered, so they are paid with black money.
As a result, the state loses huge amounts of money, while farmers are taxed more, since their profit is theoretically higher because of the supposedly lower costs.
The result in general is that when GDP increases from exports, the country's trade deficit escalates, so they offer almost nothing.
In this way, Greece is in a dead end, since the desired growth causes more damage than stagnation!
Especially with regard to meat, Greece's dependence on imports is huge, amounting to around €1.1 billion, when our exports do not exceed €100 million.
The primary sector in Greece, despite the mistakes of the past, with the manufacturing sector, as well as with the services and with the resources mentioned above, has huge potential for profitable investment and growth.
Greece here can become an international investment paradise, as in the tourism sector.
It is also in a position to become a modern logistics centre like the Netherlands, investing in modern infrastructure and supplying its surrounding region, from the Balkans to the Middle East.
What Greece needs above all is the central planning of agriculture, otherwise its development is impossible.
The aim should not only be food production, but all agricultural inputs.
The future lies in the production of technology-intensive products, not just in basic primary production, and our farmers must become scientists of sorts, taking advantage of all the developments in technology.
In any case, cooperation with the Municipalities and Regions of the country is required to record the specificities of the crops of each region,
so that plans and integrated strategic plans for the development of agriculture can be drawn up, taking into account that there are possibilities for each region and for each season of the year, if the right conditions are provided.
ELLINIKI LYSI differs from the other parties, because it believes that Primary Production can make a catalytic contribution to the recovery of the Greek economy!
ELLINIKI LYSI believes that Greece can become a strong global agricultural power!
The solutions we propose - always with the social and national interest in mind - are realistic, practical, clear, innovative, innovative, alternative, directly applicable and efficient.
These are solutions that none of the memorandum parties had the political will, the courage and the determination to propose.
The proposals - solutions of HELLENIC SOLUTION for Primary Production, concern the sectors:
Agri-food
Livestock
Production of Dairy Products
Healthy Plant Production (Greenhouse Crops, Cultivation of Herbs and Superfoods)
Fisheries and Fish Farming
The proposals of HELLENIC SOLUTION aim at a Greece that is self-sufficient, strong and economically robust.
Greeks can and MUST take the country back in our hands!
All that is needed is strategic planning aimed at the national interest and strong political will.
In ELLINIKI LYSI we have both and we call on all Greeks to follow us!
Ι. Agri-food
The food value chain (FROM FARM TO FORK) starts from the field and ends at the consumer's table.
Without intermediaries intervening and without this chain stopping.
This is followed by the treatment of waste from each phase of production, so as not to harm and disturb the environment.
In our country, the Mediterranean diet model remains almost unchanged over time, while its nutritional value is scientifically documented.
Today, the dietary habits of Greeks have been influenced by the characteristics of Western societies, with the result that the Mediterranean model has been altered mainly by the youth.
Under these circumstances, agri-food is of particular importance for the economy and society of our country.
The particular climatic and environmental conditions, the history of Greece and its position on the world map give us strategic and substantial advantages over other countries.
What is required from the State is to create the appropriate conditions and prerequisites,
so that they can highlight primary production and food as the "Sleeping Giant" of the Greek economy, which has finally woken up from the slumber that ALL Governments from the post-communist period until today had led it into.
But to do so requires substantial and immediate cooperation and the direct involvement of all those actors who have not yet demonstrated that they can cooperate and operate effectively.
For the HELLENIC SOLUTION, the cooperation of the Ministry of Rural Development with the GET and the Ministry of Development in the formulation of policies for agri-food, but also the close cooperation and its implementation under an operational implementation plan, is a MISSION!
This Implementation Plan should be systematically monitored by the above mentioned entities and they should jointly reformulate and correct the Objectives they have set throughout its implementation.
Therefore, consultation with the productive fabric of the country is a separate and necessary condition!
These are strategies that must be implemented in a short period of time in order to create a new model of development for our country.
The emphasis on the agri-food sector is particularly important, for a variety of reasons.
In more detail, the agriculture and food sectors together accounted until recently for around 17 million jobs (7.6% of total employment) in the EU.
They also accounted for 3.5% of total gross value added.
In addition, in the European Union as a whole, there are around 16.8 million businesses in the food chain, employing 48.2 million people.
In addition, global food demand is expected to increase by 70% by 2050, according to FAO data.
The large increase in global food demand will necessarily be accompanied by a sharp increase in demand for animal feed, fibre, biomass and biomaterials.
EU agriculture accounts for 18% of the world's food exports, worth €76 billion.
In the EU, the food sector ranks first in terms of turnover, employment and value added.
In 2009, the sector's sales amounted to €954 billion and employment to 4.2 million workers, while small and medium-sized enterprises accounted for 99.1% of all enterprises
.The primary products derived from agricultural production are, to a small extent, directly destined for consumption!
The bulk of them go into the production of processed foodstuffs.
Thus, ensuring high quality, regardless of origin, has a key role for the agri-food sector.
In Greece, more than 1 million businesses and farms are involved in the food value chain, employing more than 2 million people.
Also in manufacturing, while only 1.6% of the firms involved in the value chain are active, a quarter of the total value added is created!
However, the share of people employed in the primary sector is now estimated to have fallen to 12%, compared to 15.3% in 2003.
It can therefore be seen that the Greek has abandoned primary production.
The return of the Greeks to the fields, to crops, to livestock farming and to fishing is the big bet that must be won for the economic survival of our country!
ELLINIKI LYSI can win this bet with innovative and alternative proposals, aimed at addressing the problems of primary production!
The GET is the ONLY mechanism that has supported technological development and innovation research policies and actions in the past in the agri-food sector.
However, one of the problems of the Greek economy with regard to Primary Production is that there is a low innovation performance in enterprises.
Another important problem is that there is a high level of inadequacy of existing staff in critical specialisations, knowledge and skills.
This is due to the weaknesses of the formal education system to provide the appropriate knowledge and skills,
but also to the shortcomings of staff training and development programmes leading to a failure of the staff selection process.
The role of the food technology platform (brokerage events, annual ECOTROPHELIA competitions, cooperation with the European food for life platform) is considered crucial, as is the biotechnology sector.
The productive structure in our country consists of about 800,000 small and large farms, with significant unevenness in economies of scale, in the training of people, in the approach to product production and in the extraction of knowledge for use in product production.
In the livestock sector, things are worse in terms of the production structure, as it shows the same picture.
In addition, we have spatial constraints due to the isolation in the distribution of grassland.
The main conclusion on research and innovation in primary production is that there are isolated, worthwhile initiatives and a lack of linking research to production in the food sector and the validation of existing knowledge.
The innovative and alternative proposals of HELLENIC SOLUTION for Agrobiodiet are the following:
In the field of "Research and Technology, encouraging the creation of new business activities and enhancing the emergence of new competitive advantages based on coherent techno-economic networks.
Inclusion of Research Centres in the newly established Research and Innovation Agency of the Ministry of Development, in order to eliminate the fragmentation of research efforts, especially in the fields of molecular biology and biotechnology.
Strengthening of ELKEΘE's Actions and Infrastructures in order to strengthen the aquaculture and fisheries sector, with parallel funding from European and national funding programmes.
At the same time, a specific framework for the cooperation of ELKEΘE with other EU bodies will be developed in order to increase its activity in the development of aquaculture in the country.
Provide incentives to IETETETH/ CETA working on sustainable agricultural production, agricultural engineering and environment, agro-informatics and wood and wood-floor technologies and cooperation with other EU bodies.
Provide incentives to ELGO DIMITRA with the Institutes of Agricultural and Livestock Technology and the MAICH, which
which have an important position among the institutions involved in the agri-food sector, as well as the American Agricultural School of Thessaloniki and the Hellenic Health Foundation.
Participation in European Research & Development projects Technological Development (such as HERIZON), is another solution for Greek businesses to acquire know-how and exploit new technologies, with the support of European resources.
Cooperation between the Ministries of Rural Development and Education for the adoption of Special Programmes in the departments of universities and higher education institutions dealing with the provision of specialisations, skills and knowledge related to food production.
Training seminars to be held by the Regions and the local authorities for employees involved in Primary Production, in order to train them on new methods and technologies of cultivation and food production.
Provision of special Tax Incentives to Food Sector Companies to develop more collaborative actions with academic and research centers/groups in Greece and abroad.
Immediate Adoption of a Reward Reward System for scientists or groups of scientists, combining research effort and economic production.
This system will provide special subsidies and special taxation to achieve HONESTY.
This is because in our country Excellence is detached from the Production Process!
Establishment of a Patent Outreach Program and Special Actions to strengthen International Applications, with the intention of the international "exploitation" of these new proposals, for the benefit of the scientist and the Greek society.
Provide incentives and resources for institutions (academic and public) to submit international applications for advanced technological applications and broaden the range beyond the food sector.
Adoption of a Policy for the Commercialisation of Research Results, while linking research to production in the food sector and the commercialisation of existing knowledge, in cooperation with the "Office of the Chief Scientist" and the proposed newly established Innovation Directorate in the Ministry of Development.
Adoption of an international brand name for Greek products.
Adoption of a SIMPLE and FUNCTIONAL institutional framework for food and drink control.
Establishment of an INSPECTING AUTHORITY for ALL foodstuffs supervised by the Ministry of Rural Development.
Preparation of a long-term Strategic Plan for the Promotion and Development of Research Programmes in the agricultural sector and food industry.
Substantial representation of the private sector in the decision-making process (legislative and regulatory) concerning the Agricultural Sector and the Food Industry.
Establishment of a Production Organization Service for the mass participation of farmers in the programme, supervised by the Ministry of Rural Development in cooperation with the competent services of the Ministry of Finance.
The Service will provide the raw material for sowing and production coming from the Faculty of Agriculture, and will also promote the sale of the production at a percentage of the profit.
Streamlining the sector's legislative system by adopting simple and modernised legislation.
At the same time, we are launching a more effective strategy for the control of businesses, by ONE control authority, which will aim at enhancing the quality and competitiveness of the products produced, but also the more effective exercise of the role of the state as a supervisory body.
Changing the regulatory framework in the food industry.
In this way we create incentives for new businesses to enter and for this purpose we adopt the procedure "Establishment - Start a New Business in ONE DAY (ONE STOP) for Food companies as well"!
Favourable Taxation for Food Businesses that hire Greek Citizens in their workforce and at the same time, reinvest profits in the business to increase their production activity.
Stable Tax and Economic Policy for the Food Industry.
Increasing agricultural productivity, production, and the efficient and sustainable use of resources.
POLITICAL VOCATION and ACTION is needed to ensure progress in the areas of agricultural production management and control, the identification of pests in crops and livestock and the organic control of plants.
Also, the Proper Use and Exploitation of the potential of green technologies is a key priority, since precision agriculture includes pest warning systems.
Innovations in support of the bioeconomy.
Innovative solutions must also be adapted to the growing bio-economy.
Thus, we propose the cooperation of academics with Public and Private Institutions to find solutions related to biorefining, as well as for the substitution of primary protein production from algae or biofermentation, in cooperation with research centres abroad.
We also propose to guide Greek Food Businesses operating in the livestock and crop production sectors to achieve higher and better quality production.
Increase Biodiversity, Ecosystem Services and soil functionality.
We place particular emphasis on integrated ecological agricultural production systems, including soil biodiversity enhancement, carbon sequestration, water retention, ecosystem stability and resilience.
Our solutions focus on improving land management, integrated spatial planning and new agroforestry systems.
In this direction, the absorption of funds allocated to Greece from the Europe 2020 Programme is a solution, as it includes 4.5 billion Euros for research and innovation focusing on food security, bioeconomy and sustainable agriculture.
Promoting Innovative Products and Services for the integrated supply chain.
Our goal is to develop and disseminate innovative products, devices and services, while creating a transparent and sustainable supply chain.
The solutions we propose extend to introducing management innovations for farmers, strengthening their role in supply chains, and adopting new diagnostic tools to help the task of monitoring the environmental and social performance of farms.
The main focus is on better information systems and risk management tools.
These will reflect the characteristics of the products and production processes, but also the certification systems.
Our solutions include harnessing the full range of diversity of our key genetic material and introducing institutional innovations.
Improving Food Quality and Safety and establishing a Healthy Lifestyle for Greeks.
The areas for action we propose include food quality and safety.
Biopreparation and the potential of medical flora as a resource of raw materials is a solution to improve food quality.
We propose new methods of natural treatment for animals and plants and new methods for analysing the biological properties of food species.
We propose to improve public health by adopting new tools to change consumption patterns, such as education, information and learning mechanisms for products containing healthy ingredients (e.g. milk or oil with omega-3 fatty acids).
For the implementation of this process we propose a specific Strategic Cooperation Plan of the Ministries of Rural Development, Education and Development.
Promoting knowledge transfer and innovation in agriculture AND rural areas.
We propose and promote the strengthening of links between applied and oriented research.
The real needs of farmers, the market and the agri-food sector are coming forward and will be addressed through actions created through partnerships between all stakeholders (researchers, consultants, farmers, primary, secondary and tertiary sector businesses, consumer associations, environmental organisations, etc.).
Promote faster and wider transfer of innovative solutions into practice.
We do this through specific actions that will take advantage of the European Innovation Partnerships (EIP) programme, but also through the creation of clusters and networks.
The policy of promoting pilot projects is another solution for testing the commercialisation of technologies and practices.
Promote targeted, valid and continuously updated knowledge transfer and information actions.
This will take into account the needs of farmers and the market and at the same time create a culture of rural innovative entrepreneurship.
Promotion of interactive actions with parallel demonstration of practical applications and technologies.
The exchange of visits between farmers and those involved in the production of agricultural products will allow farmers to interact and exchange information and know-how,
thus improving production methods and the quality of the products produced.
This will take into account the needs of farmers and the market and at the same time create a culture of rural innovative entrepreneurship.
Support for a system of advisory services (technical and economic analysis) to farmers and small and medium-sized agricultural enterprises in rural areas by a specialised body staffed by scientists, with the ultimate aim of improving agricultural products, achieving more sustainable management and increasing the overall performance of their farm or business.
Promoting actions to strengthen the know-how (KNOW HOW) and economic training of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises in rural areas.
This objective can be achieved by enhancing accessibility and the use of information and communication technologies (ICT) in rural areas.
Strengthening the competitiveness of all types of agriculture, enhancing the sustainability of farms, promoting the organisation of the food chain and risk management in agriculture.
We aim to upgrade the relationship between production and marketing of agricultural products, since the proper functioning of this relationship is an important factor in the upgrading of the agri-food sector.
Thus, we can ensure a comprehensive intervention in the agri-food sector of our country and promote a new model of Greek traditional food.
Our aim is to strengthen the competitiveness of Greek agriculture in relation to the countries that produce similar agricultural products and which are our export competitors.
In order to enhance the competitiveness of Greek agriculture, we propose the following SOLUTIONS:
increase the productivity of Greek agriculture.
Increasing the efficiency of Greek agriculture.
This objective can be achieved mainly through the technological modernisation of farms and the adoption of new technologies.
After all, innovation and the integration of research results play an essential role in agricultural production.
Organisation of the agricultural sector based on the principles of modern entrepreneurship.
We propose, support and adopt the creation of modern, sustainable and competitive farms, following the models of other developed countries.
Increasing the adaptability of Greek agriculture to the conditions and challenges of the international market.
The aim of the HELLENIC SOLUTION is to reduce the deficit of the trade balance of agricultural products, through specific measures - solutions, which are the following:
Reduction of imported agricultural products.
We are adopting specific measures that will make domestic products more competitive in terms of cost for the Greek consumer, but also improve the quality of the product.
At the same time, we are strengthening the bargaining power of producers in the food chain and creating alternative distribution networks for agricultural products.
In this way, we substantially reduce the production costs of agricultural products.
Maintaining the country's self-sufficiency in basic agricultural products.
To implement it, we provide specific guarantees and incentives for producers to continue growing these products and enhance their income security.
Their funding, as well as the rest of our proposals, will be achieved through EU programmes, which
unfortunately have never got to where they need to be because of the malfunctioning of the public sector.
Increase in domestic production of agri-food products, especially in those sectors where domestic self-sufficiency is not considered satisfactory (mainly animal products - pork and beef).
We aim to remove the negative animal-to-plant ratio, as well as to increase the consumption and added value of plant products.
Promotion of the production of quality, special, branded, local products and their distribution in the Greek market.
In order to do this, we will implement specific measures to inform ALL Greeks about the products produced per Region,
so that they can become part of this knowledge and make purchases - selection of these products.
Increasing the quantity and range of exported agricultural products (new agricultural products), which will be targeted at developed open economies, building on the comparative advantages of domestic agricultural products and aiming at:
increasing the added value of agri-food products, mainly through standardisation and certification, but also diversification towards new and innovative agricultural products, which consumers demand in domestic and international markets,
the creation of a stable and recognizable quality and safety of high quality exportable agri-food products,
ensuring a sufficient volume of production with consistent quality characteristics.
This will be achieved through schemes resulting from various forms of cooperation and
strengthening of relations and coordination between production/processing and marketing of agricultural products.
Our goal is to triple exports compared to our country's production, which exports only 50% of its production, while other countries export over 300%, promoting only standardized products with their own brand name.
Restoration, maintenance and enhancement of ecosystems dependent on agriculture.
We place particular emphasis on the following areas:Protecting and conserving biodiversity through the protection and conservation of Mediterranean agricultural systems and rural landscapes.
We adopt and promote a specific programme of decentralisation/return of citizens and development of productive activities in mountain areas, as well as a programme to promote intercropping and the establishment of agroforestry systems.
Rational water management. We propose the implementation of new modern means of irrigation networks while promoting precision agriculture and low-pressure irrigation systems.
Reuse of water.
Addressing the degradation of land systems and protecting those at high risk of degradation.
Promote resource efficiency and reduce carbon emissions.
We emphasize the following areas:Utilization of residues and by-products of industrial foodstuffs, agricultural crops, livestock enterprises, processing of agricultural products for the production of biogas, fertilizers and animal feed, through public-private partnerships (PPPs).
Reduction of nitrous oxide and methane emissions from agricultural activities.
Adapting agriculture to climate change, with interventions in crop species and in the way existing species are cultivated.
We place particular emphasis on Social Inclusion, Poverty Reduction and the effective Economic Development of Rural Areas, with emphasis on the following areas:
Improving the quality of life in rural areas: This will be achieved by strengthening small basic infrastructure with the cooperation of the municipalities.
At the same time, we propose a plan for the reception and integration of new "residents" in the Greek countryside who come from urban centres.
Enhancing accessibility and the use of technologies in rural areas.
Multi-employment/Entrepreneurship: We will achieve this objective by strengthening entrepreneurship and in particular family business.
We will implement programmes and actions that will support activities related to alternative forms of tourism, thematic tourism (e.g. wine tourism or ecotourism), but also tourism linked to rural activities in the countryside (agrotourism).
Renovation, upgrading and preservation of the residential environment: We adopt and implement a New Quality Urban Plan, which will contribute to the aesthetic upgrading of the landscape and the spatial upgrading of settlements.
Networking: we implement a rational development of local networks for the promotion of agricultural products.
We emphasise networking and cooperation between businesses in the agricultural sector to achieve economies of scale.
Promotion of agricultural products: we implement modern actions that promote the effective promotion and marketing of agricultural products.
Training and knowledge transfer: we are implementing a Special Programme of continuous education, information and training of the rural population in innovative activities with the cooperation of the Ministries of Rural Development, Education and Development.
Innovation: We promote and apply innovative practices in the ways of producing, processing, processing, marketing and promoting local products.
At the same time, we connect academic & research institutes with rural and small and medium-sized enterprises.
Compilation of tables of ingredients of indigenous Greek foods, but also of all foods consumed in our country.
Improving the safety and quality of Greek food.
Design for optimization and adaptation of technologies, in order to produce high quality traditional and new Greek foods and value added products.
Development of new products to meet nutritional needs and trends in Greek society and abroad, as well as the development and establishment of new markets (such as Russia and China) for Greek food products.
Necessary analyses and other actions for certification and recognition of foodstuffs with designation of origin from Greece (Branding).
Modernisation of quality, hygiene and safety control regulations in the food chain, and food traceability in the production and trade chain.
We promote actions for the overall quality control of food products and for the proper implementation of food safety management systems under Greek conditions.
Competitive production of indigenous products and their registration as "Greek" through the implementation of genetic studies.
Genetic characterization and coding of the Greek genetic biodiversity.
Optimising technologies to increase productivity and quality.
Improving aquaculture production methods for modern production of quality and healthy products.
Promote exports of good quality and affordable organic products.
Strategic planning and objectives to give the agricultural sector a national identity and a European dimension.
Creating networks of scientists at regional level for technology transfer and knowledge exploitation.
Provide incentives for the creation of innovation tools with a regional and national dimension for selected research purposes in specialised fields such as aquaculture, greenhouse crops and horticulture.
Compilation of a Holistic Study by the GSRT to address the "ecosystem".
Horizontal Cooperation between the State Agencies and in particular, the Ministry of National Development, the Ministry of Science and Technology, the Ministry of Development.
Provide incentives to young farmers, such as a tax-free scheme for the first 5 years and a special low tax rate for the next 5 years, in order to create Greenhouse Crops.
The cost to our economy is non-existent, since it will be covered by the reduction in unemployment and consumption.
Adoption of the Dutch auction system, for better organisation of sales and profitability for farmers.
The total area under greenhouse cultivation in the whole country does not exceed 50,000 hectares,
while Greece needs at least 1,000,000 hectares,
although there are large areas of land that are unused.
It is estimated that in Northern Greece (Central Macedonia to Evros) there are about 150,000 hectares of land that can be directly made available to Greek farmers for the creation of greenhouses.
With the development of greenhouse crops, the quantity of agricultural products for domestic consumption and for export will increase dramatically,
while at the same time, new jobs will be created in Northern Greece (workers, research and scientific staff), the number of which may even reach 90,000!
Therefore, it is easy to see how greenhouse crops can be an important factor in the development of primary production, reducing imports and unemployment, as well as strengthening the economy and the country's GDP.
Reopening of the Faculty of Agriculture as a key supplier of raw materials for cultivation and sowing, research and development, in order to detach ourselves from multinational companies with genetically modified raw materials incompatible with the local climate and soil.
In order to achieve the goal of developing greenhouse crops,
apart from the fact that greenhouses should be built in Greece and not imported, creating new investment opportunities and reducing unemployment,
ELLINIKI LYSI proposes the following measures:Ensure the creation and adoption of a specific legal framework that will regulate the terms and conditions of operation of greenhouse businesses.
Specific training and education of owners and staff involved in greenhouse cultivation to acquire the necessary know-how (KNOW HOW).
Cooperation with specialised agronomists to increase the quantity and improve the quality of agricultural products produced from greenhouse crops, with emphasis on the use of new environmentally friendly cultivation techniques and the avoidance of chemical preparations.
Adoption of an international brand name for the greenhouse products produced.
ELLINIKI LYSI believes that the only way out for the economic development of Greece is "real production".
In Greece today there is only increased consumption, with little production!
Unfortunately, this is the situation that all the governments that have passed since the post-independence period have brought our country to.
This is the reason why Greece cannot escape the vicious circle of borrowing and debt default.
ELLINIKI LYSI has the political will to implement all its proposals in the agro-industrial food sector, so that Greece becomes self-sufficient and recovers economically!
II. Livestock
Animal husbandry includes the sectors of sheep and goat farming, pig farming, cattle breeding, cow breeding and poultry farming with emphasis on white turkey, which is one of the main primary production sectors in Greece, as well as the main occupation of Greeks living in the countryside.
Throughout the country (mainland and islands) there are many livestock farms (mainly small and medium sized) and this activity provides income for thousands of rural families, while contributing significantly to rural development.
However, it is striking that in Greece, livestock production has been steadily declining in recent years, so that it is not even sufficient to meet domestic meat consumption needs.
It is characteristic that until today, Greece covers its meat consumption needs with massive imports.
It is estimated that 85% of beef, 69% of pork and 17% of poultry on the Greek market are imported.
At the same time, thousands of livestock farmers have abandoned their profession, while many others are on the verge of abandonment.
This situation is having a negative impact on hundreds of businesses in other sectors of the economy that are dependent on the production of animal products.
Thus, thousands of workers face unemployment and the state loses valuable revenue.
In recent years, the EU has been providing incentives for a shift to organic livestock farming and this policy is a good opportunity to develop this sector of primary production in Greece.
Livestock farming is traditionally one of the most dynamic productive sectors of our country.
The main form of farming is extensive farming, which is not significantly different from organic farming, while the extensive production method contributes to improving the quality of the products produced and reducing costs.
Worldwide, meat production is the main production direction of livestock farms.
The main producing country is China, while the EU is the second largest producer of pork and sheep meat in the world, followed by New Zealand - Australia and the USA.
In particular, as regards sheep meat, which is the most consumed meat in the world, the main producing countries in the EU are Greece, Italy, Portugal, Spain and France.
Greece produces a significant proportion of sheep's milk and meat in the EU (mixed direction) with a high number of farmed animals.
Organic sheep farming in our country increased in the period 2002-2006, resulting in an increase in the number of organically reared animals by 260%, representing 2.9% of the total number of sheep reared in Greece and 9% of the total number of organically reared sheep in the EU.
Livestock farms in Greece are small, family-run and extensive.
They show a high degree of diversification in terms of livestock, equipment, facilities and productivity.
Recently, there has been a trend towards the establishment of new, modern and intensive farms in lowland areas.
These usually produce feed to meet all or part of the needs of the farm animals and have a higher level of invested capital.
In our mountainous areas the production system of livestock farming is very similar to the organic system, giving Greek farmers a comparative advantage over their European competitors.
Organic livestock farming is mainly found in mountainous and semi-mountainous areas where there is plenty of available pasture.
However, the livestock on these farms is small, as the herd is made up of less productive breeds, which are however indigenous and well adapted to the environment.
The largest share of the production costs of livestock farming is taken up by consumable capital and more specifically by the cost of feed.
Thus, in the case of organic production, the cost of purchased feed is slightly higher than in conventional production.
This is due to the increased purchase price of organic feed and not to the quantity purchased.
Organic farming seems to be less labour intensive (lower labour costs by 23.89%), while the presence of a foreign worker is more common in conventional (extensive) farming.
Organic farming is less labour intensive because of the machinery, buildings and livestock.
It is also worth noting that without the subsidy, organic livestock farming is unprofitable, while it shows almost four times the net profit compared to conventional livestock farming, which is due to the subsidy of organic production and NOT to the prices of organic products!
The proposals - measures proposed by ELLINIKI LYSI for the development and strengthening of livestock farming in Greece are the following:
A strategic plan to be drawn up by the Ministry of Rural Development and the Regions, including all livestock units per region, the sectors they operate in and the prospects for further development.
Special care for pastures.
Work with the regions to inventory the locally available grazing land.
All available pasture land in the country will be used and will be leased to farmers (the area to be leased will be proportional to the size of the livestock unit) on a long-term lease, the price of which will be estimated as low as possible.
The Ministry of Rural Development to ensure systematic, intensive and periodic veterinary control of all herds in the country and immediate treatment of sick animals, with a low price to be paid by the farmer.
This will help to effectively tackle zoonoses, which are the biggest problem facing livestock farmers.
Designing financial compensation schemes for farmers who have been affected either by natural disasters or disease in their herds to ensure that the lost income of the affected farmer is replaced.
Examination of the possibilities for insurance against such risks by insurance companies.
Adoption of new technologies in livestock farming and specific training for farmers so that they are informed and familiar with their use.
This will give Greek farmers the same possibilities, the same opportunities and the same equipment as farmers in other developed European countries, such as the Netherlands.
Supporting and motivating professional farmers through the proper use of European programmes for the production of home-produced feed.
In this way, farmers will be self-sufficient and not dependent on imported feed.
Reduction of the increased tax rates to 5% for domestic meat and an increase in tax rates on imported meat where allowed by the EU, so that Greek consumers prefer domestic products.
Tax relief for farmers who employ Greeks in their livestock farms.
Restoring the retirement age for farmers/ranchers to 65 years and not the current 67 years!
After all, we must not forget that farmers and livestock farmers are hard workers and in adverse conditions.
Utilisation of renewable energy sources (e.g. solar, geothermal, wind) for the operation of livestock units.
This will result in environmentally friendly livestock farms and reduced energy costs for farmers.
Establishment of centres for the utilisation and development of Greek animal breeds for higher yields of milk or disease resistant meat.
Establishment of white turkey incubation centres.
Establishment of wholesale centres per prefecture, connected online and accessible to the public for direct purchase without intermediaries.
For ELLINIKI LYSI, the support of livestock farmers is an obligation, because it supports the national economy and the Greek region, since livestock farmers are key factors in the sustainability of the countryside.
At the same time, the emphasis on livestock production can also ensure the country's self-sufficiency.
ELLINIKI LYSI seeks to create a strong and economically robust Greece and the basis for achieving this goal is primarily the strengthening of agricultural / livestock production.
III. Production of dairy products
Dairy products are one of the most essential food groups that are, or at least should be, found in every Greek home.
They are undoubtedly one of the largest food sectors in our country.
Companies in this sector are constantly investing in production facilities and equipment, but also in the development of new products in order to meet consumer demands.
However - mainly due to the economic crisis - cheese and dairy products are on a continuous downward trend.
The market for dairy and cheese products in our country is characterised by high concentration. There are many companies of all sizes.
Their market shares are mainly shared between the large companies and ONLY at the LOCAL level are there significant differences in consumer preferences.
During the period of memoranda, it is common for Greek consumers to turn to dairy products with a "Private Label", where quality and safety issues are sometimes raised.
The import of 332,063 tons of dairy products in 2009, with milk covering 293,062 tons of these imports, where 80% comes from Germany, the Netherlands and France, is INCREDIBLE AND IMPOSSIBLE for a country that has the capacity and know-how to produce milk and dairy products!!
As regards exports of dairy products, in 2009 they amounted to 41,011 tonnes, an increase of 27.9% compared to 2008.
Our main export product is yoghurt, which took a 53% share (i.e. 22,015 tonnes) of the total export quantity in 2009.
The Netherlands, the UK, Bulgaria and Italy absorbed 67% of our exports in 2009.
Milk is among the main agricultural products of the EU, where more than 1.000.000 farms produce annually 148.0. 000 tonnes of milk, worth 41 billion Euros.
Milk processing employs around 400,000 people across the EU and represents a total turnover of around €120 billion.
On the other hand, unprocessed milk delivered to dairies is transformed into a wide range of derived products destined for human consumption, animal feed or industry.
Looking back at the history of the milk market in the EU, it was not free.
Thus, in 1984, a country-specific milk quota was introduced under the Common Agricultural Policy in order to address the structural surpluses resulting from the imbalance between supply and demand for milk and dairy products.
The milk quota scheme was in force until 31 March 2015 and allocated to each Member State a national delivery quota for milk delivered to purchasers (mainly dairies) and a national direct sales quota for direct sales and disposals of milk to consumers, as well as for all sales and disposals of other dairy products.
In addition, it provided that any overrun of any of the national quotas would render the Member State 'liable to pay a levy' to the Community.
The Quota System was implemented in order to stop the overproduction of milk at EU level, mainly from the Northern European Countries and the Netherlands.
Greece joined this Quota System, despite the fact that its domestic production was not sufficient to cover its consumption!!
During the whole period of the quota measure, Denmark, the Netherlands and Austria exceeded both their national deliveries and direct sales quotas by 200.0 tonnes!
On the other hand, the rest of the EU countries could not even come close to the quotas of their national deliveries, resulting in imports of milk from these countries.
ELLINIKI LYSI, being aware of the potential for the production of milk and dairy products by Greek companies, as well as the NEW FRAMEWORK that is formed by the termination of the quota system, proposes the following immediate and viable solutions for the strengthening and development of the dairy products sector, which are the following:
A change in the production model for cow's milk and dairy products.
This requires the immediate implementation of the following measures:
encouraging participation in producer organisations that can help farmers to improve their position in the supply chain.
Taking targeted measures to transfer know-how (KNOW HOW) to farmers in order to improve their technical and economic performance.
Support and develop sustainable and competitive production of exportable dairy products.
Introduce specific tax solutions and simple risk hedging instruments, such as fixed margin contracts, which farmers will have easy access to.
In the context of the domestic market, the Ministry of Rural Development, in cooperation with the Ministries of Health and Education, to support the promotion of the beneficial effects of dairy products consumption on health, a parameter that has already been confirmed by recent scientific research.
The Ministry of Rural Development in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of National Economy to strengthen the regulatory framework regarding the retail market in order to regulate speculation by retailers and improve the ability of farmers to recover their costs.
Promotion of Innovative Dairy Products intended for sectors such as sports, medical or infant nutrition.
These products are based on whey and other dairy ingredients and constitute high-value product categories with rapid growth in both domestic and international markets.
Conclusion of Special Agreements with countries that promote Healthy Dietary Standards, such as the milk distribution program in schools in China and promotion of selected Greek dairy products through these programs.
Implementation of a Price Fixed Milk Price Scheme, allowing farmers to voluntarily "lock in" a percentage of their milk production at a fixed price for three years.
This price will be revalued on an annual basis in order to take sufficient account of input cost inflation.
Thus, farmers will be able to lock in a sufficient part of their profit margin without having to worry about next year's prices.
A similar system has been in place since 2010 in 4 States and all of them have been outperformed because they offered farmers a high degree of certainty as to the income they would receive for part of their milk production.
It is estimated that 22% of all milk purchased under this scheme in the 4 countries mentioned above, as well as farmers who participated in this scheme came back to reap further benefits in subsequent years.
From an economic point of view, a review of the basis of the provisions that act as a "safety net".
Prices of dairy products under intervention have been unchanged since mid-2008.
It is therefore proposed to establish a Supervisory Mechanism and online sale of products through the wholesale centres at the Ministry of Rural Development that will monitor on a continuous basis the relevance of the aforementioned "safety net" with the cost of production.
Regarding cooperatives, we propose the establishment of a Special Framework for the creation of New Livestock Cooperatives, which will promote Synergies and increase the number of animals producing milk.
In the EU and especially in our country there are small-scale farmers (from 15-40 cows per farmer).
Thus, we are promoting their grouping on the basis of a Special Strategic Plan, in order to have a better effect on the price level.
The establishment of these Livestock Joint Stock Companies will be based on the design that we have prepared and based on the successful models of New Zealand and the USA, adapted respectively to the Greek data.
Under our design, cooperatives will prioritise returns for their shareholders (farmers), either in the form of dividends or a milk price.
The well-being and maximum business interest of their members will be the basis of their activity!
These cooperatives will also be able to act as intermediaries to provide farmers with volatility management options, such as price-fixing contracts or opportunities to lock in milk prices and/or margins for a fixed period of time.
Finally, the cooperatives will make proposals for improving the quality of products and better institutional functioning of the cooperatives, in order to create the best possible framework for the operation of livestock farmers.
The inability of dairy farmers to recover part of their costs from the retail chain is addressed by ELLINIKI LYSI with specific measures.
In the extreme reductions of basic dairy products, retailers are seeking and earning the amount they want, unlike producers, who see their income decline.
To address this "unhealthy" phenomenon, we are immediately creating a Special Access Procedure for newly established Livestock Enterprises in the retail sector.
This is achieved by establishing in the first phase in the cities: Athens, Thessaloniki, Patras, Heraklion, Larissa, Ioannina, Agrinio, Serres and Alexandroupolis, Special Dairy Market Centres, in locations in the cities that will be easily accessible to citizens.
There, the Livestock Farmers will be able to sell their goods FREE to the citizens, thus "breaking" the cartels of department stores and the monopolies of some super markets, some of which operate at local - regional level.
In conclusion, particular attention should be paid to the issue of FETAS, the protection of the name of which has been lifted for countries outside Europe, such as Canada.
Worse still, many businesses in Europe use the FETA name illegally for their products because there is no Greek organisation that controls what happens in other countries.
FETA is a very large asset of Greece that can provide multiple revenues and jobs, so it should be given special attention by the State.
III. Plant cultivation
For the HELLENIC SOLUTION the variety that exists in the Greek land in aromatic and medicinal plants (certainly not in those of the government's holistic program), in herbs and in super foods is so great that unfortunately the rulers since the post-war period have either ignored or deliberately not promoted actions and political decisions for their intensive and productive cultivation.
What has been done so far in this area is mostly due to the initiatives of a few active rural Greeks and a few entrepreneurs who had the intelligence on their own to go ahead with such alternative crops.
ELLINIKI LYSI has focused on 14 alternative crops that are capable of providing the Greek farmer, but also the new entrepreneur, with much greater benefits than those expected from the production of fruits and vegetables.
Growing these 14 products achieves yields averaging €2,500 per hectare at producer price.
Thus, the cultivation of one or some of the aromatic and medicinal plants, herbs, with combined production of essential oils from plants, through a vertically integrated standardization unit, can reach 75,000 euros over a three-year period for 10 acres of cultivation.
The potential for the development of "superfoods" and aromatic medicinal plants in our country, both in the primary and the processing sector, is enormous, since the advantages are many in this category, compared to most conventional agricultural products.
The demand on the consumer's shelf is constantly increasing and producers are trying to be informed and respond to the demands of the Greek and international market.
ELLINIKI LYSI has as a top priority the implementation of a National Strategic Plan for the Cultivation and Development of "superfoods" and aromatic medicinal plants, thus providing income, new jobs and new investments in the Greek periphery.
The "superfoods" and aromatic medicinal plants that we propose to cultivate systematically and based on our Plan are the following: Blueberry or BlueberryBasilBasilHippophaeAppleRhubarbPomegranateRhubarbAroniaDendrolvaneCraniaSteviaGoji berryKrokos Kozani (Greek Saffron)SpirulinaTrufflesPlums
In detail, in order to make it clear to the Greek Citizen, how and why, can by cultivating the above species achieve what he has not been able to achieve all these years from the post-war period until today,
we will briefly mention for each of them some characteristics of cultivation and economic benefits.
Myrtillo or BlueberryMyrtillo or Blueberry is a tall shrub, reaching a height of 1.50-1.80 m, native to Siberia.The medicinal properties of Myrtillo are numerous, and it is a direct yielding crop that is highly resistant to cold (it can withstand temperatures below -10 C).In general, the plant grows in sunny areas with low temperatures during the winter months and prefers slightly sandy soils with a low pH (4,8-5,2).The fruit of the plant is small and round in size, with a characteristic blue colour and sweet taste.It is used, among other things, for making jam, juice and is also sold dried.The varieties of myrtillus that are ideal for the Greek climate are Aliceblue, Beckyblue, Briteblue, Centurion, Climax, Flodablue, Powerblue, Powerblue, Premier, Sharpblue Southland, Tifblue and Woodard.The varieties are Aliceblue, Beckyblue, Briteblue, Centurion, Climax, Flodablue, Powerblue, Premier, Sharpblue Southland, Tifblue and Woodard.The average yield reaches 1,000 kg per hectare, with up to 200 plants per hectare.The seedling produces from the very first year, the fruit ripens in 3 to 6 weeks, and after the third year it starts to produce 3-4 kg per tree, reaching 5 kg at full production.With an average price of 5 euros per kilo, the net income is 2,500 euros per hectare.The price is 5 euros per kilo, with a net income of 2,500 euros per hectare.BasilBasil is an annual herbaceous plant and in Greece the broad-leaved variety is cultivated, which is characterised by its intense aroma.The height of the plant can reach and exceed half a metre.It thrives in a Mediterranean, temperate, warm climate and is sensitive to cold and strong winds, since it cannot withstand temperatures below 10° C.The milder the winter, the more harvests can be made per year.The plant's irrigation needs are not high, unless the soil is sandy.The plant flowers mainly in the period from June to September, but harvesting should be done before flowering.Basil is sold dried, as a spice and as an essential oil.It is also used in the pharmaceutical industry for its therapeutic properties (memory enhancement, headache relief, digestion facilitation, appetite and blood tonic) and for its insect repellent properties.The annual yield of basil cultivation reaches 400 kg of dried leaves per hectare and the income can reach 800 - 2,000 euros per hectare in the case of organic cultivation.HippophaeHippophae is a bushy plant with numerous and excellent therapeutic properties, as it contains very high amounts of vitamin C. At present, the only organized cultivation of Hippophae is located in Northern Evia and the exploitation of the cultivation is carried out by a private pharmaceutical company that uses the raw material for the creation of food supplements.Hippophae is mainly marketed to pharmaceutical companies, cosmetics companies and the food industry.Hippophae thrives at altitudes from 0 to 2,000 meters, in all types of subsoil (sandy, gravelly, clayey) and can be grown even in barren soils.Also, Hippophae is the only plant that can be grown even in stony or fire-affected soils! The only case where the plant does not thrive is in muddy soils.As for the climate in which the plant thrives, it is drought resistant, but during the summer months irrigation with small amounts of water is necessary to achieve increased production.Also, the Hippophae needs high exposure to the sun, all hours of the day.It has been observed that the greater the exposure of the plant to the sun, the greater the fruitfulness and production.In terms of harvesting, the first fruits of Hippophae are produced almost 3 years after planting, while the full production starts after 4-5 years.The yield ranges from 500kg/ha to 1500kg/ha.In terms of economic performance of the Hippophae crop, although it is not subsidized, the fresh fruits are available at the price of 2.000-2,500 € per hectare, while if available through the group after first processing it can reach 4000-5000 € per hectare.AloeAloe is also called the "herb of immortality" because of its therapeutic properties.Aloe jelly is in huge demand, but little domestic production.The plant resembles a cactus, thrives in warm climates, needs lots of sun, sandy soils and loves drought.The aloe jelly found in the leaves of the plant is used in the pharmaceutical industry, in cosmetics, and also in nutrition, as a juice.Each plant can produce at least 4 leaves three to four times a year.After the 4th year of cultivation, an acre can produce up to 13,000 leaves.Each leaf weighs 400 to 800 grams, which means that one acre yields 7,000 kg of leaves, which contain about 70%-80% jelly.PomegranateThe pomegranate is a tree that thrives in the temperate Mediterranean climate and needs a long, dry summer to have a higher production.The fruit and juice of the pomegranate are used by the pharmaceutical and cosmetic industries.A mature tree produces about 100 fruits (40-50 kg), i.e. 2.5 tons/hectare and the production lasts for 20-30 years.The cultivation of pomegranate trees can give the producer a net income of 1,000-1,200 per hectare, while the cost of planting and cultivation reaches 500 euros/hectare.Aronia Aronia Aronia is a medicinal plant and thanks to the chemical composition of its fruits it offers significant benefits to the human body.Its fruit contains vitamins A, B1, B2, B3, B5, B6, B6, B9, C, E, K and contains high amounts of flavonoids, which are very important for their antioxidant properties.Two to three years after planting, it reaches a yield of 1,300-1,800 kg per hectare and yields an income of about 1,000 euros per hectare.RosemaryRosemary promises very good yields and despite the fact that the cultivation of the plant in Greece had started decades ago, it is still considered a relatively new field of action for Greece, offering an alternative growth potential in the primary sector.At the same time, it also gives a boost to the secondary sector of processing.Rosemary cultivation is particularly attractive thanks to the low cost of establishment (350-400 euros per acre).In terms of yield, it reaches 250-350 kg of dried leaves and the economic yield can reach 500-700 euro/ha for conventional crops and 1,500-1,800 euro/ha for organic crops.SkullcapIt can be grown on abandoned mountain and semi-mountainous land without any particular requirements.It is an indigenous, long-lived tree, known since antiquity for its fruit and for its particularly hard wood.With a yield of 1,000 kg per hectare, cranberry can generate a net income of around EUR 800-1,300 for the producer.The wood of the horseradish tree is also used in the manufacture of various small appliances and tools (such as sticks, glue sticks, rods, pipes, etc.).The bark is used to make red dye, which is used to dye leather, while the fruit was formerly used to dye eggs. Especially when the tree is young, it needs plenty of water and the right thing to do is to irrigate every 10-15 days during the summer, anemic period.SteviaStevia is one of the few contract crops that exist in Greece.Greece is considered a "privileged" country for its cultivation, since high sunshine favours the growth of the plant, giving extremely high yields compared to the countries of Central and Northern Europe.The growth of stevia requires small amounts of water and fertilizers.The price of dry leaves ranges between 1-2.5 euros and the yield per acre is 100-150 kg.Under ideal conditions, the production per acre can reach 400-450 kg and the income can reach 1,000 euros/acre.Goji berryIt belongs to the category of super foods and is a foreign fruit that a few years ago we ignored in Greece. The deciduous plant can withstand both high temperatures of up to 40° C and low temperatures (such as -30° C). The yield per hectare is impressive, reaching 1.5 tonnes of fresh fruit and 700-800 kg of dried fruit. The economic yield ranges between 6-7 euros per kilo of dried fruit, giving a net income of about 2,000 euros per acre.Saffron of KozaniKrozani saffron (Greek saffron) is a powder extracted from the stamens of a flower and is used in cooking, confectionery and the pharmaceutical industry.The only region of our country where there have been extensive systematic crocus cultivation (about 10,000 hectares) for many years is the area of Kozani.In fact, in 1998, crocus was designated a Product of Designation of Origin (PDO) by the European Union, so it potentially acquires greater added value.The cultivation of saffron is not particularly demanding and the harvest takes place from mid-October to mid-November.One kilogram of saffron is harvested from a total of 150,000 flowers.The income generated from 1 kilogram of saffron corresponds to approximately 1.The annual production in the last three years has been around 5.7 tons of red and 1.5-2.5 tons of yellow crocus and there are regular exports to countries such as Russia, Spain, Italy, France, Italy, France and the USA, Switzerland, England, Germany, Scandinavian countries, the Netherlands, Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Brazil, Argentina and Japan.The annual economic return ranges between 5,000 - 8,000 euros/producer.SpirulinaSpirulina is a small seaweed, rich in vitamins and proteins and is also called "food for astronauts".Spirulina is mainly grown in tanks and is cultivated from the end of February to the beginning of November.Spirulina needs a high temperature, not below 32C, but not higher than 37C.It is of course worth noting that it is a high-risk crop with high initial yield costs (it requires an installation of up to 40,000 - 50,000 euros per hectare, as it needs a greenhouse, tanks, agitation mechanisms, dehydrators and requires constant heating of the nutrient solution), but the development can compensate the producer, since the daily production of pulp can reach even 25-30 kg!The economic return on spirulina cultivation, depending on the country of origin, quantity, quality and type of packaging, ranges from EUR 7 to EUR 200/kg.Spirulina is sold to the pharmaceutical industry where it is converted from powder to tablets and capsules.Truffle Truffle Truffle is also known as the "golden mushroom" and the largest quantities of truffles sold internationally are harvested in the wild, since it is a mushroom that grows underground.However, in recent years, truffle crops have increasingly been established because - although not subsidised by the EU - it is a high-yielding agricultural activity with little manual labour and a commercial value of more than 3.Truffle cultivation can provide a stable and decent income for the country's mountain populations.Black truffle thrives in mountainous limestone soils, the altitude of which ranges from 600 to 1000 meters, while white truffle thrives in fertile plains with a maximum altitude of 300-600 meters.The type of truffle that can be cultivated and thrive per region depends on the flora of the area.The cost of establishing the crop is estimated to be in the range of 2,500 euros per hectare and the economic yield of the crop is 2.0 - 4,000 euros per kilogram.PlumsThe plum tree grows mainly in areas of central and southern Greece and begins to bear fruit almost a year after planting, which are intended for fresh consumption, drying or the production of sweets and jam.Plum cultivation is considered to be quite profitable for the producer and provides a good income, with an average yield of 2,5-3 tonnes per hectare.The harvesting period starts in June and ends at the end of August and early September, depending on the variety and the location.Most of the Greek plum production is sold to Russia, Egypt and various European countries, such as Germany and Italy.In addition to the above, ELLINIKI LYSI has some other indicative alternative - quality crops that are of equal importance and with direct benefits for Greek farmers.These crops are the following:ASPARAGUS:The climatic conditions in which asparagus can be produced are on average sunshine and temperatures above 15C.The plants in this crop take about 6 days to sprout.However, the higher the temperatures during production, the sooner the harvest may take place.The harvesting of the fruit is done by workers and not by machines, as the whole production process is subsidized by the EU.This is a particularly important aspect, since the subsidised programmes support the investment of a large proportion of horticultural plants.DANTHOS:Daffodil performs well in medium soil and has no particular water requirements.Even when there is a drought, with the option of automatic irrigation, its yield is not reduced.The individual farmer starts sowing from early March and lasts until mid-April.The requirements for growing dill by machine are only 350g/ha, and the field only needs to be finely soiled. If the farmer wants to cultivate it manually, he will need twice the amount of g/ha.The yield of dill as an alternative crop to be used in aromatherapy or as an antimicrobial ranges from 400 to 500 euros per 1000ml, if the seed is distilled.FERSION:The cultivation of fennel mainly concerns Northern Greece and the months of autumn and spring.In Southern Greece the cultivation is done in the months of winter. This plant does not have high nutrient requirements.However, it needs nitrogen for its growth.The amount that can be used is 2.5 to 3.5 tons of manure per acre.The yield of fennel is 1500-2000 kg/acre, while the economic benefit is 700-800 euros/acre.CARROTON:The climate of Greece is considered ideal for carrot cultivation, since it thrives especially in winter and at temperatures of 15-17o O.C. It can also be combined with many fruit and vegetable crops such as lettuce, cabbage, onion.The economic return from carrot cultivation can reach 1000 euros/acre every year.QUINOA:The quinoa plant thrives especially in the spring months in Greece as the temperatures that benefit it are around 15 degrees Celsius.From sowing it takes only 3-10 days to germinate, 60 days to flower and 150 days to harvest.Among the most famous varieties produced are Faro, CO 407, Carmen, Atlas, CO 409, Cahuil, CO 407, Black, Real, Koncolla, Bianca de Junin, Sajama, Linares, Dave, Milahue, Temuco, etc.The amount of seed per acre is 100 s and 200 s for sowing over the whole surface.One gram contains 200-500 seeds, depending on the variety.Yields range from 40-50 kg per acre and can reach over 400 kg per acre if the climate is favourable.ARTICLE:The artichoke grows in three stages and thrives in moderate temperatures, about 15-20 degrees Celsius.This crop has particularly high yields, reaching 1.5 tonnes/hectare with low production costs/hectare, which is around 120 euros.The prices at which the artichokes are sold are around 2 euros per kilo, so we are dealing with quite a large profit if we take into account the very low production costs.Further, the proposals - measures of the HELLENIC SOLUTION for the development and strengthening of plant cultivation in Greece are the following :A strategic plan to be developed by the Ministry of Rural Development and the Regions and will include all crops per region and the prospects for further development and new crops.Special care for the available land for cultivation per region.Cooperation with the regions for the recording of the locally available areas for cultivation.All available land for cultivation will be utilized.Provision by the Ministry of Rural Development for systematic, intensive and periodic agronomic control of all crops in the country and immediate treatment of diseases, while informing farmers about the available organic ways of dealing with diseases, so that environmentally friendly practices can be applied and the available organic products, whose price increases accordingly, can be increased.At the same time, the corresponding international certifications will be secured, so that the products can be officially labelled as "organic".
IV. Fisheries, fish farming and aquaculture
The primary sector of the economy also includes the fisheries sector, which is diverse and particularly complex, since its production involves not only catches, i.e. fish, shellfish and molluscs, but generally all products that can be derived from the aquatic environment, including sea salt.
Greece has huge competitive advantages here, which it has hardly exploited.
In this sector of the primary economy, the products come from the activities of fishing, fish farming and aquaculture and can be an important driver of economic development of our country.
This is particularly helped by the geomorphology of Greece, which is ideal for the establishment of aquaculture units, but also for the development of fishing, especially coastal fishing.
More specifically, 20% of the country's total land area is made up of island regions, which are home to 16% of the country's population.
In addition, Greece has more than 40 lakes and the largest urban centres are coastal.
However, the economic sector of fishing, as well as the wider sector of agriculture, forestry and fishing, has a small share in the total GDP of Greece, despite the fact that the particular geomorphological characteristics of the country could make Greece a fishing superpower!
For ELLINIKI LYSI, the development and strengthening of the fisheries, fish farming and aquaculture sectors is of utmost economic and social importance, with great nutritional value and social significance.
In economic terms, the revenues from the exploitation and export of aquatic environmental products can reach and increase enormously.
On the other hand, on a social level, ELLINIKI LYSI does not forget that many small coastal communities are fully economically dependent on fishing, which can become a catalyst for population retention and the preservation of the social fabric in these areas.
The fishing industry now consists of three main sectors:  Capture fisheries (marine and inland)
Aquaculture
Processing industry and marketing of products
In the European countries as a whole, Greece clearly excels in capture fisheries and aquaculture but lags behind in the processing industry.
The total annual production from aquaculture is around 105,511 tonnes.
This is a rapid increase, given that 30 years ago, in 1986, production was only 320 tonnes.
The contribution of sea bream and sea bass farming, which are the second most competitive export product of the country, and the strong growth of shellfish farming were particularly important in this increase.
As regards aquaculture and fish farming in the country, the main fish species farmed in fresh and brackish waters are trout, carp, eel, salmon and mullet.
Today there are an estimated 122 freshwater plants in operation, with an estimated production of 3,015 tonnes.
In addition, there are 72 organised lagoon farms covering a total area of 400 thousand hectares with a production of about 1,100 tonnes, worth about €2.5 million.
ELLINIKI LYSI with specific measures and proposals - solutions promotes the development of all 3 axes of the fishing industry, in order to make a substantial contribution to the economy of Greece.
The measures proposed by ELLINIKI LYSI are:Study of the geomorphology of the marine areas of the country and the islands, in order to design and develop more efficient complementary fishing techniques.
Informing/educating professional fishermen and promoting the use of fishing gear targeting specific species of fish in order to achieve high selectivity.
Exploitation of the great fishing experience that exists in our country, with the help and cooperation of local fishing associations.
Provide incentives for professional fishermen to turn coastal fishing into a family activity.
Financial support and reduced taxes for professional fishermen to purchase modern fishing gear;
Provide incentives for the creation of manufacturing enterprises.
Implement an environmentally friendly fisheries policy, with the protection and development of wetlands and fisheries resources as key objectives.
Increased exports of fishery products to developing markets with growing demand, such as Russia and China.
To understand how much we are indirectly affected by Germany's insidious policy of keeping wages below the productivity of its workers, one should know that our first export market for fish, Italy, because its industry is suffering from German competition, has lower incomes, so it imports less fish than Greece.
Systematically informing Greek consumers to show preference for domestic fresh products.
Strong emphasis on the development of the processing and processing of fisheries products.
The processing and treatment of fishery products is an activity that is inextricably linked to fisheries (marine and inland).
These units (processing and processing) are enterprises producing mainly frozen, salted, packaged and smoked products.
Such businesses exist mainly in Kavala, Thessaloniki, Magnesia, Evia, Lesvos, Attica and Thessaloniki.
It is estimated that in the whole territory there are about 300 such enterprises, their total production amounts to 59,500 tons, worth about 270 million euros and they employ about 2,600 people.
As regards the marketing of fishery products, it includes 11 fish markets, 77 private packing plants and 11 shellfish dispatch centres.
However, it is a sector that needs radical change, modernisation and support to make it more in line with hygiene and modern marketing rules and to ensure the sustainable development of the sector.
The objectives and proposals of the HELLENIC SOLUTION for the development and strengthening of the sectors of the fishing industry are the following:
Marine Fisheries
Marine fishing is the main activity of the fisheries sector in Greece, both in terms of the volume of production of fishery products and in terms of employment.
The objectives of the HELLENIC SOLUTION for marine fisheries are:An ecological approach to fisheries, aiming to achieve a sustainable balance between fisheries resources and their exploitation.
Provide incentives to convert small-scale coastal fishing into a family activity.
Modernisation of the country's fishing fleet, use and exploitation of new technologies and renewable energy sources.
Protection and conservation of fisheries resources.
Training in the form of seminars, provided by the State, to "pass on" know-how to professional fishermen.
Strengthening the marketing and processing of fish.
Creation of new and modernisation of existing fishing infrastructure.
Increasing exports of fisheries products and their absorption by new fast-growing markets such as Russia and China.
The proposals of the HELLENIC SOLUTION to achieve these goals are:
Public investment in fisheries for the modernization of the fishing fleet and the transfer of know-how to professional fishermen.
Training and information with state support so that young people who want to go into fishing know all the necessary details, difficulties and prospects of the profession.
Financial support and tax breaks for young fishermen to buy the necessary equipment.
The first purchase of an active fishing vessel, as well as for their training.
Improved management and control of access conditions in designated fishing zones.
Strengthening the use of new fishing techniques.
Investments in the construction of fishing ports and shelters to improve the services offered to fishermen.
Designing a programme of direct compensation for fishermen affected by natural disasters.
Development of coastal areas through the implementation of fishing or ecotourism tourism programmes.
Participation in international exhibitions for the promotion and promotion of Greek fish abroad.
Aquaculture
The main objectives of the HELLENIC SOLUTION for the aquaculture sector are, apart from improving the competitiveness of the products and businesses, to ensure sustainability.
The proposals of HELLENIC SOLUTION to achieve these objectives are:Support for the modernization of equipment and facilities of enterprises, in order to achieve an increase in the efficiency and production of aquaculture.
Technological upgrading of production systems by implementing innovative actions, modern monitoring and disposal systems, as well as intensive controls.
Cooperation with the country's regions for the creation of new Areas for the Organised Development of Aquaculture.
Establishment of new and expansion of existing plants and hatcheries, mainly for species with good marketing prospects, such as sea bream, sea bass, trout, shellfish and crabs).
Modernisation of the institutional framework for the licensing, establishment and operation of aquaculture facilities.
Continuous training of the staff of the units.
Ensure the acquisition of certificates and the implementation of product quality assurance systems.
Ongoing actions to promote aquaculture products in foreign countries.
Design of a programme of direct compensation for units affected by disasters or diseases
Marketing and Processing of Fishery Products
The strategic objective of HELLENIC SOLUTION for the sector of processing and trading of fishery products is the sustainable development of sustainable businesses and the strengthening of the competitiveness of business structures in order to benefit the sector with maximum long-term business and social benefits.
The objectives of the HELLENIC SOLUTION for the sector of marketing and processing of fishery products are:Improvement of the production process, in order to add the highest possible value to the catches with reduction of losses and discards.
Development of innovative production techniques
Development of local processing and marketing facilities in areas where there are coastal fisheries and aquaculture units.
The proposals of the HELLENIC SOLUTION to achieve these goals are:
Ensure and provide state aid for the construction of new modern production units for the processing of fishery products.
ISO certification for the products.
Support and financial incentives for all young people wishing to enter the fish processing and marketing sector.
Tax relief for those entrepreneurs who employ Greeks as workers in their plants.
State participation in the construction of new marketing facilities to improve the system for the handling of fishery products, while ensuring that all quality and hygiene requirements are met.
State provision for training and transfer of know-how to the staff of the units.
State involvement in the improvement of storage facilities, raw material and finished product
with modern inventory control and computerised support for product traceability to the last consumer.
Assistance in the promotion of products in foreign markets.
The financing of the primary sector
In addition to the correct use of European programmes, the existence of the contract farming programme & Livestock Banking, supported and controlled by the State, is able, under the right conditions, to finance the activities of the primary sector to an adequate extent.
The Contractual Programme covers the entire production, supply and processing chain of agricultural and livestock products, supporting in a coordinated manner the beneficial cooperation between producers and companies involved in the marketing, processing and distribution of agricultural production.
Banks act as coordinators and financiers.
It supports the productive effort, ensuring that Greek producers have the necessary liquidity, not only to continue producing, but through better planning of their required inputs, to achieve better prices, improved production conditions and ultimately better quality in the product produced.
It ensures that businesses have the raw material they need to plan their payments and their cash obligations in general,
but also to be consistent with agreements and clauses for the delivery of the products they have entered into.
It creates, at the level of local communities and markets, a transactional movement in terms of the chain of agricultural inputs (agricultural inputs, machinery - small tools, livestock - energy), which will give a significant boost to liquidity, due to the direct payment of all the factors necessary for the production of products.
The basic condition is that these producers must have concluded sales contracts (directly or through an Agricultural Cooperative) with commercial and processing companies in the country.
In Brazil, 75% of poultry production is under contract, while in Vietnam 90% of dairy production is under contract.
Contract production rates are also even higher when it comes to exported goods.
The same applies to staple food products such as wheat and rice.
In Vietnam, 40% of rice production is grown under contract with companies.
Banks offer advantages to producers, enabling them to grow crops having secured the money they need.
They offer the necessary credit to each producer according to his capacity.
All the money to cover production costs is available to the producer at the exact time he needs it to ensure the best possible prices for his purchases.
Working capital is approved to pay for the material produced by producers.
By buying cash, the producer reduces the cost of production and makes his products more competitive.
No mortgages on the agricultural land or other assets of the producer are required for the financing.
The producer will know, on the basis of the agreement with the (processing) company, that his production will be disposed of without problems, and upon delivery, the producer is paid in cash 100% of the value delivered, by activating the previously approved working capital of the processing company.
The producer will know in good time the price range at which he will sell his production, as it will be indicated in the agreement he will have signed with the company to which he will deliver his crop.
ELLINIKI LYSI has the right specialized partners who know the structure of the banks' program and can help the producers, so that they can really benefit.
THE GREEK SOLUTION IS THE ONLY PARTY THAT CAN OFFER REALISTIC AND IMMEDIATELY IMPLEMENTABLE SOLUTIONS FOR GREECE!
WITH THE NATIONAL INTEREST AND THE RESTART OF THE ECONOMY IN MIND, WE SEEK TO MAKE GREECE ONCE AGAIN AUTARKIC AND POWERFUL!
THE GREEK SOLUTION INVITES ALL GREEK WOMEN AND MEN TO FOLLOW US,
TO SUPPORT OUR VISION AND TO IMPLEMENT IT TOGETHER!
PROGRAMMATIC POSITIONS OF THE "GREEK SOLUTION" FOR TOURISM
The tourism industry is diverse, affects and concerns both private and public life and can become (although it already is to a large extent) the main source of revenue generation,
employment,
private sector development
and improvement of the country's infrastructure.
This is because tourism is a horizontal activity that affects many sectors of the economy (e.g. catering, accommodation, entertainment, etc.), while it concerns many different areas of the social and productive fabric of our country.
As such, it contributes significantly to GDP and helps to spread the national income across various regions of Greece.
The numbers are tedious, of course, but they are the only ones that never lie and always give the true picture.
Indicatively, the evolution of 2017 compared to 2016 in figures was as follows:
It is therefore positive to know that the expenditure per night increased in 2017 compared to 2016 by 0.4% to 69 €, the average length of stay remained stable at 7 nights, the number of nights increased by 10.4% to 213.516 from 193,419 in 2016, travel receipts increased by 10.8% to €14.63 billion and the number of visitors was up by 7.4% to 30.16 million.
As far as the contribution of tourism to our country's GDP is concerned, according to data from SETE (the Association of Greek Tourism Enterprises), every euro of tourism revenue increases GDP by €2.65.
Therefore, the increase in 2017 by 1.426.000.000 € benefited GDP by 3.778.900.000 €.
Based on the multiplier (2.65), the 14.63 billion € (2017 turnover) generated 38.77 billion € of GDP, so tourism contributed 21.81% to the 2017 GDP (177.7 billion €).
In 2016 it produced €35 billion of GDP or about 20% of our GDP at the time (€174.2 billion), so it offered quite a lot to the country.
According to the World Bank, Spain's tourism turnover in 2016 was $60.6 billion, Germany's was $52.1 billion, France's was $50.88 billion, Italy's was $40.37 billion, Portugal's was $17.2 billion, Turkey's was $26.7 billion and Greece's was $16.53 billion.
The total employment generated by tourism during the peak of 2017 (third quarter) is estimated at 630,000 jobs or 16.9% of total employment.
If they are taken into account with a coefficient corresponding to the GDP (2.2% according to the IOBE or 2.65% according to the KEPE), then the total employment (direct and indirect) generated by tourism amounts to an impressive figure of 37.2% to 44.8% of the total.
According to international studies (M. Bernegger), the export revenues of tourism in Greece's current account balance are now significantly underestimated.
This fact is not due to our country, but to the differentiation of the methodology of recording the turnover from the provision of tourism services within a monetary union, after our entry into the Eurozone (2002).
These revenues are now calculated through random surveys conducted among tourists, where they are asked about their average expenses during their stay in our country, the prices of the rooms they paid for, the time they stayed, etc.
This method (FRONTIER TRAVEL SURVEY, FTS) is also used in other European countries but, due to problems in weighting the samples, it does not correctly reflect the dynamics of tourism.
Comparing now the "export" revenues of Greek tourism with other countries, in combination with some specific factors, one can see that they increased sharply after 2000 and the country's entry into the Eurozone, as it happened with shipping, since both sectors are capital intensive, which was easier to acquire (loans), as well as cheaper within the monetary union.
However, this development is not correctly reflected in the current account, due to the incorrect recording of overnight stays by hotel categories.
In particular, what characterizes Greek tourism after the year 2000 is the strong growth in the 5-star hotel sector, since only this sector has grown, with the other sectors either static (4 stars) or declining (1 to 3 stars).
It should be noted that five-star hotels have by far the highest productivity and profitability per employee.
Therefore, the shift in the centre of gravity of Greek tourism to this category led to a sharp increase in its turnover, despite the fact that the number of tourists from 2000 to 2009 did not show a similar increase (the drop in turnover per person that occurred after 2010 is mainly due to the internal devaluation of around 30%).
However, it is not recorded in the statistics, which focus mainly on the number of visitors to the country.
As a result, the contribution of tourism to GDP, as well as to Greece's current account balance, which is much larger, is not properly assessed.
If we calculate that the direct revenue of tourism in 2017 was €14.63 billion and the deficit of our trade balance (Exports - Imports) was €21.4 billion according to ELSTAT, then tourism covered about 68% of the trade deficit.
According to the Bank of Greece, in 2017, travellers who visited our country made a total of 31,021 thousand visits to the 13 regions of the country.
This number is larger than the total inbound travel, as a traveller may visit more than one region during his/her trip.
The largest volume of visits, 83.9% of the total, took place in five regions as follows:
Region of Central Macedonia (7,262 thousand), Region of South Aegean (5,841 thousand), Region of Attica (5,137 thousand), Region of Crete (4,806 thousand) and Region of Ionian Islands (2,966 thousand).
In all the other regions (Eastern Macedonia and Thrace, Peloponnese, Epirus, Epirus, Thessaly, Western Greece, Central Greece, North Aegean and Western Macedonia) 5,008 thousand visits were made.
In terms of cruise, 3,271 cruise ship arrivals were recorded in 2017 (2016: 4,093 arrivals), with 4,600 thousand passenger visits, compared to 5,053 thousand passenger visits in 2016.
A supplementary survey revealed that 90.5% of passengers were transit visitors, who on average made 1.5 stops in Greek ports, the same as in 2016.
In 2017, total receipts from cruise passengers decreased by 6.4% compared to 2016 and amounted to €476 million, of which €48.6 million are included in the recorded data from the Border Survey, as they
relate to travellers departing from Greece (last port), while €427.7 million represent additional revenues recorded in the supplementary survey.
The main port in terms of cruise receipts is the port of Piraeus, with 46.2% of the total.
The port of Corfu and the port of Mykonos follow, with 14.7% and 8.8% of receipts respectively.
The seven major cruise ports of call account for 92.0% of total cruise receipts and 88.3% of total passenger visits.
Total non-cruise overnight stays increased by 13.2% to 4,611 thousand nights, while total cruise passengers for the period under review are estimated at 3,055 thousand, a 9.9% decrease compared to 2016, which negatively affected the cruise revenue configuration.
Therefore, tourism is an "asset" and one of the heavy industries of our country, since it helps the development of the entire region and is supported by many sectors of the Greek economy.
Therefore, tourism is a sector that needs special attention and therefore a national planning that includes targeted actions is needed to
make Greece an attractive and integrated tourism product, capable of attracting cutting-edge investments.
The design of appropriate, efficient and effective actions for tourism must be based on the profile of tourists visiting Greece and the effort to exploit Greek culture and traditions.
Only in this way will it be possible to meet the needs of thoughtful and discerning tourists, fulfil the purposes of the visit and at the same time protect and promote the domestic economy and society.
The profile of tourists visiting Greece
In terms of the nationality of incoming tourists, almost half are German and English, followed by the other countries shown in the table.
Regarding the purpose of the visit, according to previous SETE data, 81% of inbound tourists visit Greece for the sun, the sea, culture and religion.
In addition, 75% of English and Belgians visit Greece for gastronomic purposes, i.e. to taste Greek cuisine, while 66% of Russians are also interested in the natural beauty and sightseeing.
Regarding the stay of tourists in Greece, the majority stay for about 1 week.
The exceptions are the Germans, the British and the Russians, whose average stay ranges from 10 to 12 days.
Looking at the economic profile of tourists, 80% belong to the middle and upper income class.
In terms of expenditure by country of origin, it is of course proportional to the number of visitors, with Germany leading the way, followed by France.
In terms of average spending per tourist in 2017, Australians lead with €1,218, followed by Americans with €941 and Canadians with €903, while high despite the depreciation of the ruble were Russians with €710, when Germans spent €689 and Britons €688.
The profile of Russian tourists visiting Greece
Greece was until recently in 5th place on the list of Russian tourists' holiday preferences, behind Turkey, Egypt, Thailand and Spain.
The main reason is that these countries, although alien and "hostile" to Russians (especially Turkey and Egypt), have simplified visa procedures, better promotion of their tourist products and attractive - economical holiday packages.
It is estimated that 20% of Russian tourists prefer our country for holidays.
74% of them visit Greece with the main purpose of sea tourism and the package "sun - sea", 52% are interested in cultural - archaeological tourism, while 71% visit the country for religious - pilgrimage tourism.
For this reason, many Russian tourists prefer tourist packages that include visits to Meteora, Patmos and Mount Athos.
Therefore, Russian tourists prefer Greece not only for the sea, the sun and the culture, but also because of the common religious ties.
Regarding the age of Russian tourists, the vast majority are between 18-35 years old and they usually visit Greece only once.
However, it is worth noting that there is also a percentage of 27% who visit the country for holidays every 2-3 years and a percentage of 18% who visit us every year.
In terms of accommodation and spending money during the holiday period, Russian tourists are much more willing to spend more money in Greece than in other countries such as Egypt and Turkey.
The average stay of Russian tourists in the country is 10 days and according to previous SETE data, it is estimated that 57% of them spend €100-200 per day on accommodation, food, entertainment and transport.
The remaining 43% of Russian tourists spend much more money, reaching in exceptional cases even 1.000€ - 2.000€ / day.
Proposals for general tourism
The HELLENIC SOLUTION proposals for General Tourism are specific measures, within the framework of the national planning for tourism development, which aim to create a stable and attractive environment for attracting new tourists, satisfying the needs of demanding tourists
and achieving profitable investments, which can significantly contribute to the development of the country's economy and infrastructure.
The basic measures of the HELLENIC SOLUTION for general tourism are the following:Cooperation with the Municipalities and Regions of the country to record the particularities and points of tourist interest of each region, so that plans and integrated strategic plans for the protection, promotion and exploitation of natural beauty, particularities and points of tourist interest per region can be developed.
A national plan and measures for the extension of the tourist season, through the development of alternative forms of tourism, in order to attract new tourists and make Greece not only a summer tourist destination, for the "sun - sea" package.
Greece is a country that can have tourism all year round and not only in the period from May to October.
The "sun-sea" package, although successful, makes tourism a seasonal activity and results in seasonal work, seasonal employment and seasonal staff, which is not used during the winter period.
The development and exploitation of alternative forms of tourism can help the country to have tourism all months of the year, to
develop tourism and social activity in many regions
and to provide income and employment for workers in tourism businesses throughout the year.
Collaboration with the competent authorities (e.g. the State Tax Inspectorate, the Health Service) to establish strict quality criteria and best practices, which all businesses operating in the tourism sector must meet.
This will provide all tourists with quality services, quality products and eliminate the phenomena of obscenity and fraud.
Frequent inspections by the competent authorities to ensure that tourism businesses comply strictly with the established criteria and avoid creating a negative image of Greek tourism.
Emphasis not only on organised tourism and tour operators' group packages, but also on individual tourists, with the provision of attractive tourist packages, offers and discounts on accommodation and food.
Attracting individual tourists is considered very important, as according to SETE data, 66% of annual tourism revenues come from individual tourists.
Promotion of Greece abroad as a comprehensive, attractive and quality tourism product.
Promotion of Greece as a tourist destination for all seasons of the year and not only for summer holidays.
Preparation of an integrated and stable strategic plan for the promotion of Greece (as a tourist destination) and Greek tourism products abroad, throughout the year.
Emphasis on intensive and overlapping actions, such as online promotion, advertisements (TV, print), events, publicity (reports) for Greek products and participation in tourism exhibitions.
Systematic and intensive promotion of Greece as a tourist destination in new, rapidly developing markets, such as Russia and China.
Special treatment, special privileges and incentives for Russian tourists.
For example, a 15% discount on accommodation, food and entertainment for all Russian tourists visiting Greece for the first time and a permanent 20% discount for all other times they come back to the country, with a simple presentation of their passport or a special card issued at airports and ports.
Establishment of more visa centres in Russia, not only in Moscow, but even in hard-to-reach areas, near the Ural Mountains, which are among the most densely populated areas in the interior of Russia and whose inhabitants are distinguished for their high income level and travel skills.
Every year, from March to April, there is an increased demand for visas from Russian tourists wishing to visit our country for holidays.
However, the few visa centres, mainly located in Moscow, are not sufficient, resulting in long queues and inconvenience.
The creation of visa centres in other regions, outside Moscow, will both decongest the situation and provide incentives and facilitate many Russians wishing to visit Greece for holidays.
Doubling the staff in Russia's visa centres, especially during periods of high demand.
It is estimated that at the moment, the staff of the Greek visa centers in Russia does not exceed 150 people, who are employees of the Greek consulates in Russia.
This number is not sufficient to check the thousands of applications and issue visas in time.
Therefore, an increase in staff means an increase in the number of visas issued, which in turn means an increase in the number of Russian tourists visiting the country.
Simplification of visa procedures for Russian citizens, so that the service is fast and does not exceed a total of 5 working days, as opposed to the current 5-week period.
Based on the number of applications made every year in Russia, it is estimated that a minimum of 10,000 visas should be granted every day.
However, bureaucracy, combined with a lack of staff, makes it possible to issue only 1,000 visas a day.
As a result, Russian tourists prefer Turkey and Egypt because the visa process is faster.
But the result is that valuable revenues for the Greek state are lost.
Automatic and permanent issuance of a "Schengen Visa" for all Russian tourists and not only, who buy a holiday home in Greece.
Cooperation between the Greek state and tour operators, in order to increase the number of programmes for Greece and to create economically attractive holiday packages.
Create an integrated plan for the upgrading and development of all tourism infrastructure.
Providing state incentives for the development and improvement of existing tourism infrastructure.
Tax breaks for all owners of tourism infrastructure, so that there is not a single tourist business in Greece that will not operate.
Emphasis on tourism infrastructure investments and high quality projects.
Fast Tracks procedure for large investments and a substantial reduction of bureaucracy for all investments.
Introducing a simple, stable and attractive tax system, which will remain unchanged in its basic regulations for at least 10 years, in order to boost investment in tourism.
Provide additional incentives to boost tourism investment and create quality accommodation, luxury hotels, quality tourist complexes and tourist residences.
Tax exemption for 5 years for those who invest in tourism by setting up a new tourism business.
Prohibition of the use of tourist accommodation as accommodation centres for illegal immigrants (Hot Spots).
Evacuation of all tourist accommodation in the country that operate as Hot Spots
and granting state subsidies to the owners - entrepreneurs, in order to renovate the accommodation and operate them again as tourist units, offering economic holiday packages to incoming tourists.
Mandatory staffing of all tourist infrastructures with specially trained personnel who speak - among other foreign languages - Russian and are familiar with Russian culture.
Incoming Russian tourists increased steadily on an annual basis until 2014 when sanctions were imposed.
So having staff who speak their mother tongue will help them to grow again, as well as making tourists feel familiar, comfortable and welcoming.
In addition, they will form a positive image of Greek tourism and thus, demand - preference for the country is expected to escalate.
Mandatory annual training (seminars) for all workers in the tourism industry, so that the staff of tourism businesses are well trained and qualified.
Application of a special tax regime and a 50% reduction in VAT rates for all Greek islands, as is the case in other regions of the European Union, for example in Portugal (Madeira and the Azores), Germany (Eligoland) and France (Corsica).
Liberalisation of maritime tourism and in particular cruise tourism.
Reduction of VAT to 10% on the total exported tourist package.
Licensing of all the country's ports and financing of infrastructure projects.
Creation of berths for cruise ships in the ports of all the islands of the country.
Facilitation of marine tourism with pleasure boats, with the creation of a network of marinas in all the ports of the country, where there will be repair facilities and the possibility of permanent mooring.
Creation of tourist shelters at all points of tourist interest and places of natural beauty, with fuel and food, water and spare parts supply stations.
Subsidies for the creation of electronic platforms such as AIRBNB and BOOKING.COM by Greek companies.
Cooperation between the public sector and private individuals for the establishment of tourism businesses abroad, specialized for Greece.
Alternative forms of tourism
In recent years, along with mass - holiday tourism, new forms of alternative tourism have been developed to meet the needs of the most demanding tourists, who were looking for something more than the package "sun - sea".
The main and widespread forms of alternative tourism are:Cultural and archaeological tourism
Religious - pilgrimage tourism
Health and wellness tourism
Rural tourism (Agrotourism)
Marine tourism
Gastronomic tourism
Oenotourism
Ecotourism
Mountain and ski tourism
Educational tourism
Usually, alternative forms of tourism act as a complement to mass tourism.
However, they are gradually becoming an independent and autonomous attraction for tourists, who do not simply seek rest and recreation, but wish to actively participate in various activities in the context of different forms of tourism.
Greece is a gifted country that can support all forms of alternative tourism.
At the same time, the development of alternative forms of tourism can prove to be particularly beneficial for the country, as they are "anti-luxury" forms of tourism, which are developed outside of tourist resorts.
That is, they can be developed at all times of the year, in all regions of the country.
However, an integrated national plan, including targeted measures and actions, is needed to make the most of all the opportunities offered by alternative tourism.
Proposals for cultural - archaeological tourism
Cultural tourism focuses on the interest in the country's cultural monuments and includes visits/tours to cultural monuments and heritage resources such as archaeological sites, monuments, traditional settlements and museums.
In addition, it may include visits to cultural organisations and attendance and/or participation in cultural events (e.g. music, theatre, dance events).
There is no doubt that cultural tourism is a particularly important form of tourism and is the main tourist destination for the majority of tourists worldwide.
In particular, Greece is an attraction for millions of tourists interested in cultural tourism, as it combines archaeological wealth, ancient Greek culture, remnants of Byzantine/medieval culture and modern Greek culture.
Therefore, in this respect, Greece has a significant comparative advantage over other tourist destinations.
However, as the evidence so far shows, this important comparative advantage has not been fully exploited.
It is characteristic that, on the basis of the visitor data of the largest museums in Greece and abroad, it is found that the number of tourists visiting Greek museums and Greek archaeological sites is far below the number of tourists visiting the corresponding sites abroad.
A major reason for this is probably Greece's lagging behind on the infrastructure axis.
Therefore, all the proposals - measures that follow for the development of cultural tourism, require the close cooperation of the Ministry of Tourism, with the Ministry of Culture, but also with various other Ministries, such as the Ministry of Infrastructure, Communications and Transport, in order to draw up a comprehensive and stable national plan for the development of cultural tourism in the country.
The proposals of the HELLENIC SOLUTION for cultural - archaeological tourism are the following:Cooperation with the Municipalities and Regions of the country for the registration of archaeological sites, monuments, museums and points of cultural interest in each region, so that plans and integrated strategic plans for the protection, promotion and exploitation of these points per region can be developed.
Creation of multi-page brochures, translated into English, Russian and Chinese, which will briefly list, with photos, all the points of cultural interest per region of the country.
These leaflets can be distributed to incoming tourists at airports and ports, but also by foreign travel agents, with whom the Greek state is obliged to cooperate.
Promotion of Greece abroad as the ideal destination for cultural tourism.
For this purpose, a comprehensive and stable strategic plan for the promotion of Greece and Greek cultural products abroad is required throughout the year, with emphasis on intensive actions such as online promotion, advertisements (TV and print), events, reports on Greek culture and participation in tourism exhibitions.
10% discount on museum and archaeological site ticket prices for all incoming tourists, throughout the "low tourist season" of the year (November - April).
Creating a comprehensive plan for the upgrading and development of the country's cultural infrastructure.
Design and implementation of a programme for the upgrading of the country's cultural institutions, archaeological sites and museums.
Imposition of operating regulations, which will provide for mandatory daily operation and the establishment of opening hours to facilitate the visit and guided tours for tourists.
Most museums and archaeological sites are usually open to the public until 2pm and are often not open on all days of the week.
However, this way of operation does not serve tourists, resulting in the loss of valuable ticket revenue.
It is therefore imperative that all museums and archaeological sites have continuous opening hours and remain open until the early evening hours.
Cooperation with local cultural associations, for the realization of events (dance, music, theatre), which can be an attraction for tourists, as well as an
element of strengthening the local economy.
Mandatory staffing of all cultural infrastructures in the country (museums, archaeological sites, cultural organisations) with specially trained and well-trained staff, such as guides, archaeologists and historians, who speak - among other foreign languages - Russian, so that Russian tourists can be guided to cultural monuments and museums in their native language.
Use of new technologies in order to promote the country's museums, archaeological sites and places of cultural interest abroad, so that visitors can gather valuable information about them before their visit to Greece.
For example, all Regions are required to include on their official websites information, in Greek, English and Russian, about the sites and events of cultural interest in the wider region.
Also, mandatory creation of websites for all museums in the country, where there will be information and photos of the exhibits, as well as the
creation of "digital museums", so that visitors can "browse" them virtually - digitally.
Facilitating the visitation of museums, archaeological sites and cultural monuments.
For incoming tourists in Athens, the approach to places of cultural - archaeological interest (inside and outside Attica) is usually extremely difficult and complicated.
An indicative example is the creation of urban and intercity bus lines (starting from the centre of Athens), which will run daily to archaeological sites and monuments, such as Ancient Epidaurus, Delphi, Mycenae, Vergina, Dion, etc.
Tourist exploitation of the excavations and the process of conservation of antiquities.
Tourists who are interested in cultural tourism wish - among other things - to actively participate in certain activities.
In the case of Greece, this desire of tourists can easily be fulfilled, since numerous archaeological excavations are carried out during each year and at the same time intensive conservation of antiquities is carried out in specially designed areas of museums.
Thus, with the appropriate modification to the premises, interested tourists can easily be guided, participate and watch the process.
This is an original and interesting action that can promote Greek cultural tourism and contribute positively to its development.
Allocating part of the annual revenues of cultural organisations for the development and improvement of their infrastructure to
make them visitor-friendly (e.g. providing access for people with mobility problems)
and in line with modern technological developments and needs (e.g. digital and interactive projections in museums throughout the country).
Proposals for Religious-Pre-Symposium tourism
Religious tourism is a subcategory of cultural tourism and has begun to grow rapidly in recent years, mainly due to the mass tourist visits of like-minded peoples (Russians, Serbs, Bulgarians).
Of course, there are often visits to churches, monasteries and other religious monuments by other tourists (mainly Europeans), but these visits are either out of curiosity or out of interest in the architecture of the buildings.
In contrast, in the case of Russian, Serbian and Bulgarian tourists, religious tourism has a strong pilgrimage character and monasteries, churches and religious relics are treated with due respect and awe.
Tourist visits to the religious and pilgrimage sites in Greece are a widespread tourist activity and are an attraction for millions of Orthodox Christians.
However, these visits are often limited to Mount Athos, Meteora and Patmos, ignoring - usually - the hundreds of other religious pilgrimages that exist in various regions of the country, and indeed in places of unparalleled natural beauty.
For this reason, the preparation of a comprehensive and stable national plan for the development of religious/ pilgrimage tourism is required, which can become a pole of attraction for millions of tourists, North-Eastern Europeans, with the corresponding economic benefits for all regions of the Greek territory.
The proposals of HELLENIC LYSIS for religious - pilgrimage tourism are the following:Cooperation with the Municipalities and the Regions of the country for the registration of churches, monasteries, all places of pilgrimage and Christian worship, as well as all religious events that take place on an annual basis,
so that plans and integrated strategic plans for their protection, promotion and tourist exploitation can be drawn up.
Cooperation with all the tour operators in the countries of the same name (mainly Russia, Serbia and Bulgaria), in order to provide detailed information to all tourists interested in religious/pre-shrine tourism in Greece (e.g. information on the monasteries, churches and sacred relics that exist in all prefectures of the country, information on the religious events that take place throughout the year) and the creation of economic packages of religious tourism for all months of the year.
Creation of tourist agencies in Russia, which will have as their exclusive object religious tourism, pilgrimages and the organization of religious / ecclesiastical excursions in Greece.
Creation of multi-page publications - guides in English and Russian for religious / pilgrimage tourism in Greece.
The publication/guide will be in the form of a travel book, with rich photographic material, information and a record of the pilgrims' experiences.
This publication - guide can be available at airports, but also in bookstores in Russia, with the main purpose of informing tourists.
Promotion of Greece to all the countries of the same faith, as the ideal destination for religious/pre- pilgrimage tourism.
To this end, a comprehensive and stable strategic plan for the promotion of Greece, its monasteries, churches and sacred relics is required.
Promotion should be done throughout the year and emphasis should be placed on intensive actions, such as online promotion, advertisements (TV, print), events, reports on the Christian tradition in Greece and participation in tourism exhibitions.
Cooperation with specific airlines to offer a 15% discount on air ticket prices to tourists wishing to travel from Russia to Greece to participate in religious festivals throughout the year.
Creation of an integrated plan for the upgrading, development and promotion of all the religious sites and pilgrimages in Greece.
Facilitating the visitation of churches and monasteries.
Creation of long-distance bus lines in Athens and Thessaloniki, serving respectively southern and northern Greece, with daily services to churches and monasteries, thus facilitating tourists visiting the country for religious / pilgrimage purposes.
Staffing of the organized monasteries with specially trained and well-trained personnel, such as guides, historians and theologians, who must know and speak the Russian language (in addition to other languages), so that Russian tourists can be served and guided to the religious monuments in their mother tongue.
Use of new technologies to promote the country's churches, monasteries and ecclesiastical relics abroad, so that visitors can collect valuable information about them before their visit to Greece (e.g. all Regions are obliged to include on their official websites information in Greek, English and Russian) about religious tourism in the wider region.
Also, the creation of a website (with state support) that will be dedicated exclusively to religious tourism in Greece.
The content of the page will be available in 5 languages (Greek, English, Russian, Serbian and Bulgarian) and will contain detailed information, photos and videos of all the churches, monasteries and holy relics in Greece, as well as information about the various annual religious festivals and events.)
Creation and organization of associations - friends of monasteries (e.g. Friends of Meteora), where members can exchange information and be informed about various religious festivals, events, exhibitions, publications, etc.
Proposals for Health and Wellness Tourism
Alongside general tourism, an alternative form of tourism, health and wellness tourism, has been developing rapidly in recent years.
Many tourists wish to combine rest and recreation with alternative treatments for rehabilitation and recovery from serious illnesses and injuries.
There are also many tourists who wish to have beauty and rejuvenation treatments during their holidays.
Greece, due to its climate, conditions and environment, can be an ideal destination for health and wellness tourism. However, despite the fact that the country has: an
ideal climate that can act as an adjuvant in the treatment of physical and mental illnesses,
a large number of organised thermal springs/baths that can support thermal tourism,
organised private clinics and nursing centres with well-trained and qualified medical staff and
numerous luxury private health, wellness and beauty centres (spas), most of which are housed in luxury hotels, health tourism in Greece is not organised, is not promoted abroad and is still in its embryonic stage.
In fact, this is happening at a time when in several other countries of the world (e.g. Cyprus, Tunisia, Hungary, Italy, Spain, Morocco, Turkey, Israel, etc.), there are organised medical tourism centres.
As a result, Greece is losing a lot of valuable revenue.
A comprehensive and stable national plan is therefore required for the development of health and wellness tourism, which can attract millions of tourists, with the corresponding economic benefits for all regions of the Greek territory.
The main proposals of the HELLENIC SOLUTION for the preparation of the national plan for the development of health tourism in Greece are the following:
Cooperation with the Municipalities and the Regions of the country for the recording of data concerning the natural environment, the existence of spas/springs and the prospects for the creation of medical tourism centres,
in order to then draw up plans and integrated strategic plans for the promotion and exploitation of these sites per region.
Creation of multi-page brochures, translated into English and Russian, which will refer in detail and with photos to medical tourism in Greece.
These brochures can be distributed to medical centres, rehabilitation clinics and health and beauty spas abroad to inform and attract interested tourists.
Promotion of Greece abroad as the ideal destination for health and wellness tourism.
For this purpose, an integrated and stable strategic plan for the promotion of Greece and Greek health products (medical centres, private clinics, rehabilitation centres, spas, thermal baths) is required throughout the year, with emphasis on intensive actions such as online promotion, advertisements (TV and print), events, speeches, reports and participation in tourism exhibitions.
Cooperation with all tour operators in all foreign countries (but especially in Russia, where citizens are demonstrably interested in health and wellness tourism, as 1 in 10 Russians are interested in visiting spas), in order to provide detailed information to all interested tourists (e.g. information on Greek spas, the therapeutic properties of Greek thermal springs, the services offered in the field of medical tourism, Greek medical tourism centres and the
Establishment of tourist agencies in Russia and elsewhere, which will have as their exclusive object health and wellness tourism in Greece and the creation of corresponding economic tourist packages for all months of the year.
Creating a comprehensive plan to upgrade and develop the country's entire health and wellness infrastructure.
Granting of government subsidies for the use and improvement of existing health and wellness infrastructure.
Utilization, promotion and development of all the organized thermal springs of the country (Edipsos, Ipati, Kyllini, Kythnos, Loutraki and Kaifas), with the creation of organized luxury accommodation for thermal tourism, where tourists will be provided with corresponding treatments.
Organization, utilization and promotion of the unorganized thermal resources scattered throughout the Greek territory.
Tax breaks, reduction of red tape and incentives to encourage new investment in health tourism (private clinics, private rehabilitation and physiotherapy centres, mental health centres, beauty and spa centres).
Establishment of medical tourism centres.
Each centre will be a complex of luxury accommodation and clinics, remote from major cities, located close to nature, in a location of natural beauty and specialising in a sector of health tourism (e.g. aesthetics, beauty and rejuvenation services, mental health, rehabilitation, etc.).
Establishment of an alternative medicine centre, where all treatments will be based on the use of plants and herbs from the Greek land.
Establishment of healthy living tourist centres.
These are luxury tourist complexes, where there will be accommodation, gyms, stadiums.
There, tourists, regardless of their health condition, will follow - with the help of specialized staff - a healthy and natural life program, including healthy diet, active sports, diet, timetable parallel to the natural biorhythms, activities of various forms of outdoor tourism (e.g. nature walks) and mental balance and stress reduction programs.
Mandatory staffing of all health and wellness infrastructures with highly trained and qualified personnel (doctors, physiotherapists, psychologists, psychiatrists, psychiatrists, nurses, plastic surgeons, aestheticians).
Mandatory annual training (seminars) for all health tourism workers.
Use of new technologies to promote medical tourist centres and all Greek health and wellness infrastructures abroad and to enable visitors to collect valuable information about them before their visit to Greece.
Allocate part of the annual revenues of the health and wellness infrastructure for further development and improvement.
Formation of a national brand for Greek health tourism and creation of a promotion network in developed countries.
Proposals for Rural Tourism (Agrotourism)
Agrotourism is an alternative form of tourism, developed in the countryside, in rural areas.
Tourists interested in agritourism stay on farms or in traditional and small-scale accommodation and engage in a wide variety of daily leisure activities
related either to agricultural/livestock production or to outdoor activities such as mountaineering, hiking and cycling.
Undoubtedly, Greece is a country that favours the development of agrotourism,
however - until today - this form is limited to simple accommodation in various agrotourism destinations, with limited opportunity for experiential experiences.
Therefore, the preparation of a comprehensive and stable national plan for the development of agrotourism is required, which can become a pole of attraction for many tourists, with the corresponding economic benefits for all rural - livestock farming areas of the Greek territory.
The main proposals of HELLENIC SOLUTION for the development of agrotourism in Greece are the following:Cooperation with the Municipalities and Regions of the country for the registration of all rural and livestock destinations in each region,
so that plans and integrated strategic plans for the protection, promotion, development and exploitation of these sites can be drawn up.
Cooperation with all tour operators in all foreign countries, in order to achieve the detailed information of all interested tourists about the possibilities of agrotourism in Greece.
Promotion of Greece abroad as the ideal destination for rural tourism.
For this purpose, an integrated and stable strategic plan for the promotion of Greece, Greek agricultural / livestock products and agricultural / livestock activities is required throughout the year, with emphasis on intensive actions such as online promotion, advertisements (TV, print), events, reports and participation in tourism exhibitions.
Creation of a comprehensive plan for the upgrading and development of the country's agri-tourism infrastructure.
Granting of state subsidies for the development and improvement of existing agri-tourism infrastructure.
Tax breaks, cutting red tape and incentives to encourage new investment in agri-tourism.
Creation of traditional rural/livestock farms and settlements in various regions of Greece.
Organisation and implementation of daily agricultural and livestock activities, in which all interested tourists can participate.
Staffing of agri-tourism infrastructure with trained personnel.
Cooperation with local agricultural and livestock cooperatives for the organisation and promotion of seasonal activities, where all interested tourists can participate.
Creation of organised recreation, sports and walking areas in the wider area of the agrotourism settlements.
Creating natural parks.
Promotion of sports tourism (e.g. bicycle races, mountaineering competitions).
Promotion of the traditional settlements of each prefecture.
Revival and promotion of traditional customs and events of each region, with the participation of all interested tourists.
Proposals for Marine Tourism
Marine tourism includes a range of tourism activities that take place at sea, mainly during the summer months.
These include cruises, sea tours with yachts and sailing boats, water sports (such as water skiing, jet skiing, wind surfing, etc.), diving and, recently, fish tourism,
where tourists participate in the process before, during and after fishing.
Our country is an ideal destination for these activities.
The proposals of the HELLENIC SOLUTION are the following: Cooperation with tour operators to promote all these marine activities,
with special emphasis on Russia and the creation of special marine tourism packages, which will include one or more of the above activities.
Reduction of bureaucracy and a special tax regime for businesses that will be subject to marine tourism.
Organizing water sports on the islands that have a corresponding tradition and experience.
Organization of sailing races with the participation of tourists.
Creation of berths for cruise ships at the ports of call.
This requires the cooperation of the Ministry of Tourism with the Ministry of Shipping, the Port Authorities and the shipping companies that own such ships.
Creation of marinas and upgrading of existing ones through the PPP process.
Creation of repair infrastructure in the main ports where yachts and sailing boats are moored, as well as upgrading their permanent mooring areas.
Ecotourism proposals
Ecotourism is linked to tourism activities in nature.
It is developed in areas where there are protected areas (i.e. Natura areas), or in natural parks (such as the one in Drama).
Our country has several protected species of flora and fauna with many Natura sites and wildlife sanctuaries.
Our main proposals are: Publication of an Ecotourism Guide for all regions of our country in English and Russian, to be distributed at the entrances of the country (airports and ports) and by travel agents.
Also, a corresponding website should be created by the Ministry of Tourism to promote the natural beauties and the possibilities/services available to interested tourists.
Creation and promotion of protected parks and Natura sites.
Creation of a network of mountain bike routes.
Organising sports activities in nature, such as kayaking down a river, mountain climbing, etc.
Highlighting of hiking trails, placing of relevant markings and publication of relevant maps.
Exploitation of the caves and organisation of tours in them.
Cooperation with groups, associations and NGOs that protect wild animals, (e.g. Arcturus) for the organization of group tourist visits to wild animal sanctuaries and marine parks (e.g. Alonissos Marine Park).
Promotion of these activities at exhibitions, cooperation with travel agents and use of technology to promote the product online.
Suggestions for Mountain/Winter tourism
Greece is a tourist destination that can have tourism not only in the summer months, but also in the winter months.
Extending the tourist season is our objective and priority,
so that the tourism workforce ceases to be seasonal and has work all year round.
Our main proposals are as follows: Cooperation with foreign travel agents to promote the opportunities and services that our country's winter destinations can offer.
Particular emphasis should be placed on Russian tourists, who have knowledge of winter activities and sports.
Publication of a guide to winter activities and recreational areas, as well as the creation of a corresponding website for the online promotion of our winter destinations.
Cooperation with airlines to provide a 10% discount on airline tickets for tourists who choose a Greek winter destination.
Upgrading the infrastructure of the existing ski resorts and utilisation of others that have not been properly exploited, such as the ski resort of Falakro Mountain in Drama.
Proposals for Gastronomic tourism
Gastronomic tourism focuses on the contact and acquaintance of tourists with the local/traditional cuisine.
This type of alternative tourism can be part or a part of cultural tourism,
since, through traditional cuisine, the visitor can indirectly come into contact with and "get to know" local traditions, local cultural events, customs, habits of the people and agricultural activities.
Here we should make special mention of the use and supply of local agricultural and livestock products, traditional raw materials, organic products, as well as sawn products of protected designation of origin (PDO) or geographical indication (PGI).
All tourists visiting our country, but especially the British and Russians, show a serious interest in traditional Greek cuisine, local products, fresh fruit and vegetables, fish and seafood.
The exploitation of Greek cuisine can complement one or more forms of alternative tourism.
The main proposals of the HELLENIC SOLUTION are: Promotion of traditional cuisine abroad, with actions such as online promotion, advertisements (TV, print), events, reports and participation in food and beverage exhibitions.
Use of new technologies and creation of an official website for Greek traditional cuisine, the content of which will be available in 2 languages: English and Russian, so that visitors can gather the information they need before their visit to the country.
Incorporation of traditional Greek products and traditional Greek dishes in the menus of all hotels.
In the hotel buffet there should be a Greek and a local cuisine corner (e.g. in the buffet of hotels in Crete there should be a Greek and a Cretan corner, with traditional Greek and Cretan products/dishes).
The hotel breakfast should include a "Greek breakfast" (e.g. pancakes, yoghurt, fresh bread, butter, spoon sweets, fresh fruit, local cheeses, strapatsada, Greek herbal infusions), so that tourists have the opportunity to taste the traditional Greek breakfast.
Organization of guided tours and organized visits to Greek food workshops, cheese dairies, traditional bakeries, flour mills.
Promotion, promotion and organization of visits to museums and exhibitions related to Greek nutrition (e.g. the Museum of Olive and Olive Oil in Laconia).
Organization of seminars by specialized dieticians - nutritionists, to introduce tourists to the Greek Mediterranean diet.
Suggestions for Wine Tourism
Wine tourism can be a subcategory of Cultural, or Gastronomic tourism, or even Agrotourism.
It is developed in areas where there are wineries and vineyards, from which wine of Designation of Origin of Superior Quality (OPAP) is produced.
It is estimated that there are about 600 modern wineries in Greece, many of which were built with European programmes and produce wines of excellent quality.
All promotions in Greece in relation to Greek Food & Beverages during the tourist season greatly benefit exports, as tourists seek them in their countries when they return, "obliging" their shops to stock them.
Almost all tourists visiting Greece show a particular interest in Greek wine.
Therefore, wine is a tourist product that can complement the development of other forms of tourism.
The main proposals of the HELLENIC SOLUTION for the development and strengthening of wine tourism are: Promotion of Greek wine abroad, with actions such as online promotion, advertisements (TV, print), events, reports and participation in beverage and food exhibitions.
Use of new technologies and creation of an official website for Greek wine, the
content of which will be available in 2 languages: English and Russian, so that visitors can gather the information they need before their visit to the country.
Integration of Greek wine in the menu of all hotels.
A wide variety of Greek wines in the hotel bars, so that tourists can choose.
Visiting and guiding tourists to annual wine-themed events (e.g. Wine Festival).
Organisation of guided tours and organised visits to vineyards and organised wineries (e.g. Averoff's Cottage in Metsovo),
where specialised staff will guide visitors around the facilities and introduce them to the way wine is produced.
Promotion, promotion and organization of visits to museums and exhibitions related to Greek wine (e.g. the Vine and Wine Museum in Naoussa).
Proposals for Educational Tourism
Educational tourism can be part of cultural tourism.
It can offer a lot to local communities if it becomes an attraction for educational/learning tourism.
The basic positions of the HELLENIC SOLUTION are: Organization of educational programs for students of universities and colleges abroad, with special emphasis on new markets such as Russia.
Educational and cultural programmes for school and university excursions from abroad, especially from Russia.
These programmes can be combined with cultural or religious/sacrificial events (especially for like-minded peoples).
Programme of acquaintance and education of the Greek Cultural Heritage.
Greek Language Learning Programme.
ELLINIKI LYSI considers TOURISM as the heavy industry of our country and therefore has proposals in all possible areas of tourism development with a bias towards the homeland Russia,
where its citizens show particular zeal to visit Greece, not only to enjoy the sea, the sun, the traditional cuisine, but also to worship reverently in our monasteries and churches, where holy relics and relics are kept.
Our constant references to Russia are related to the common elements we have in common with this country of 144 million inhabitants today,
as well as to the need for specialization of Greek tourism.
Similar actions could be taken later with China, but only with regard to our cultural heritage, which is highly valued by its citizens, apart from the exploitation of the incomparable natural beauty of our homeland.
PROGRAMMATIC POSITIONS OF THE "GREEK SOLUTION" FOR SHIPPING
"Great state of the sea" (Thucydides)
Jacques Lacariere said that: "The wealth and power of the Greeks is where it was in the time of Odysseus: the Sea".
Greece's merchant fleet is the largest and most productive in the world, number one since the 1970s, followed by the Japanese and Chinese fleets.
Although it has never been given much attention, it is a fact that from 1999 to 2008 Greece experienced an indirect export boom, more than any other country in Western Europe, with the exception of Norway, achieving a strong export performance that is unmatched by any other country.
In particular, based on international studies, Greece's current account balance would have been more in surplus than Germany's until 2008,
if its official statistics had included shipping - which has been the dominant sector of the Greek economy since 1960 - in its official statistics.
Unfortunately, however, the sector is dollar-based, both in terms of its revenues and its expenses, traditionally maintaining bank accounts in New York, London and Geneva.
Up to the time when our country adopted the euro, shipping transactions were almost never conducted through Greek banks.
The reason was mainly that, after the establishment of the Bank of Greece (1929), from 1932, there was a monetary regime with rigid capital controls, which remained more or less as it was until 1994.
In essence, therefore, there was no possibility of conducting international capital transactions through the Greek banks, so the Bank of Greece ceased to register the income from the transport (fare) of Greek shipowners' ships, declaring it as exports, being the only exception compared to all other countries.
Therefore, what was recorded by Greece until about 1998 (source: Bernegger) was only the internal costs of shipping, such as wages, deposits to the seafarers' pension fund (NAT), office expenses, dividend payments within the country, etc.
In any case, the revenues from the Greek fleet's transport (turnover) until 1998 were not recorded in Greece's balance sheet at all, but in a number of other countries.
Most of the shipping industry's revenues and liquidity remained in dollar accounts abroad, never entering the circulatory system of the Greek economy,
while until 2002, even the income from shipowners' reinvestments was not recorded, something that changed only partially in 2003.
More generally, the assets of Greek shipowners, which are constantly increasing, with the vast majority of them remaining abroad, are also not recorded in our country's statistics, as is the case in other countries (under the heading 'direct investment abroad').
Without going into details, the potential contribution of shipping to the Greek GDP, as well as to the current account balance, especially in the years of the sharp rise in shipping revenues (1999-2008), is estimated at $60 billion.
Unfortunately, however, they were only partially recorded in Greece, by 10% until 2008, and then by about 25%.
This fact is also documented by EU statistics, which in 2014 held 40% of the world fleet in terms of Gross tonnage, with Greek shipping accounting for around 50% of the European fleet.
The EU's direct turnover was €56 billion, direct tax revenues €6 billion, while total turnover, direct and indirect (for every €1 of direct, €1.6 of indirect is generated, according to a study by Oxford Economics) was €145 billion.
In total, directly and indirectly, it is responsible for 2,300,000 jobs in the EU, generating €41 billion in tax revenues - with the UK (2014) leading in maritime employment, followed by Germany and Norway.
So based on the above, and also with Greek shipping participating by 50%, one realizes the turnover, employment (graph) and tax revenues that it provides to the EU, with Greece lagging behind due to the non-exploitation of its vast wealth.
However, given the fact that sea freight rates have fallen by almost 90% since 2008, mainly for dry cargo, while the cost of oil has risen sharply, one understands that the crisis has indirectly cost Greece more than any other country on the planet.
The exit of the Greek economy from the shackles of debt and recession now depends on the extent to which it can become more outward-looking and internationally competitive.
But these are two characteristics that, for many decades now, Greek merchant shipping has managed to acquire through its own efforts.
The main PILLARS of Greek shipping are the following:Pioneer ShippingCoastal ShippingLabour ForceEmployeesSupplyCruise ShipsLimitsMarineRepair ActivityMaritime EducationProfessional Pleasure VesselsSea Activities
Nowadays, however, apart from the above references, the maritime complex is being tested by:
The internal economic crisis,
the "hostile" policy of all Greek governments, since the post-independence period, towards the shipping businesses of Greek shipowners,
the methodical moves, incentives and tax breaks by competing shipping centres for the relocation of Greek shipping businesses to them, as well as
capital controls that have reduced net shipping revenues from €6.87 billion in 2014 to €3.36 billion in 2017 (graph).
However, according to a study by Ernst & Young, Greece could have significant economic benefits if it were to become the home of shipping companies regardless of the flag under which their ships are registered.
These benefits were estimated at €25.9 billion per year, creating 550,000 jobs and solving the vast majority of our problems.
In this regard, Dubai is considered the best example as a maritime hub, which
provides management capabilities for shipping companies while lacking a shipping fleet.
According to the R&D survey, 3,273 shipping companies operate in Piraeus and 118 companies operate in Thessaloniki, with a total number of 3,391 companies, representing 28 different sectors (of which 70.5% are not ship management and operation companies).
The survey revealed that 97% of the companies do not carry out any ship management operations in Greece and only 3% gave a positive answer.
ELLINIKI LYSI has a series of proposals in the shipping sector, which in the first phase will prevent further shrinkage of the Greek shipping cluster and in the second phase will lead to its further development.
Above all, the abolition of capital controls which will immediately increase our GDP by €4 billion, the creation of the right conditions
for Greece to become the home of ship management and operating companies, increasing by €26 billion our GDP
and creating 550,000 jobs, as well as
the attraction of Greek software companies from London, on the occasion of Britain's exit from the EU.
The remaining proposals of the HELLENIC SOLUTION are the following: Establishment of a Bank of Maritime Entrepreneurship, competitive to offshore activities, for ships of the Greek registry,
possibly with the participation of shipping companies that want to invest in its funds
and its parallel listing on foreign stock exchanges.
The existence of synergies, which can be achieved through the vertical organisation of administrative intervention at sectoral level.
Significantly reduce the cost of compliance of stakeholders with the rules governing shipping activity.
This will have the consequence of improving the competitiveness of the Greek shipping cluster compared to its foreign counterparts.
Creation of an electronic register (e-registry) in order to eliminate bureaucratic procedures and simplify the registration of ships in the Greek register.
A change in the taxation of ships while introducing strong incentives that do not affect shipping companies.
This measure is highly necessary, because shipowners pay tax not on the profits of the ship, but on the tonnage, which is calculated at a rate.
Respecting the stability of the institutional framework governing shipping in tax and organisational matters.
Participation of Greek banks in the financing of Greek shipping, which is a critical pillar of the national maritime complex.
In the context of the forthcoming actions for the restructuring of the Greek banking system, the mandatory participation of banks in the financing of Greek shipping.
In the context of Basel-III, the Bank of Greece should ensure that the specificity of shipping activity is taken into account.
Intensify the efforts of the State and the Social Partners to attract young people to the maritime profession.
Radical changes and modernisation in the field of maritime education.
Upgrading and updating the curricula of the Higher Schools of the Merchant Navy (SAI).
Mandatory annual refresher training for teaching staff, particularly on issues related to newly built ships.
Mandatory use and exploitation of new technologies in teaching.
Given the limited resources available in the state budget, the immediate implementation of the existing institutional framework for private initiative in the field of maritime education and training is required.
State care so that maritime education and training is not ignored in the context of the activation of the NSRF.
Supporting investment in real estate from shipping funds.
Establishment of tax incentives for raising the Greek flag on yachts.
Creation of a Parallel Register for ships flying the Greek flag.
With this measure, there should be many and significant economic benefits, as has been the case for many years in several countries such as Norway, the Netherlands, Italy and others.
With this proposal:A new dynamic strategy that benefits the competitiveness of the Greek flag is highlighted.
The ship's operating costs are reduced.
They travel without problems.
Competitive costs in the second register for the Greek shipowner when flying the Greek flag.
Continued collection of registration fees for the State.
Creation of new jobs in the offices of shipping companies in Greece.
Restructuring of the Greek ferry companies operating on the Greek islands, through mergers, in order to create economies of scale and become profitable.
Modification and interruption of services, especially for high-speed vessels.
Reduction of ticket prices for permanent residents of the islands.
This should result in an increase in government revenue, because the fares will no longer be prohibitive for islanders.
Drastic cuts in port charges, to the extent that they are actually invested for the benefit of passengers.
Reduction of the 3% surcharge on tickets.
Replacement of vessels on some routes with other vessels of an appropriate size to meet the needs.
Operating a ship for a certain period on a route that the ship's company operates annually.
Strengthening and radical modernisation of the shipbuilding and ship repair industry, especially in terms of equipment, organisation and labour, which
will benefit the re-industrialisation of Greece.
This restructuring is proposed to be done in: Institutional level
By defining the NES NYSOLP as a special Bi.P.E., including the areas of New Mole Drapetsona, Mole of PPC and Kynosoura.
NAYSOLP SA to explore the possibility of combined funding with national and community resources, since it will be an organized VI.PE.
Development Interventions
The sector is not an eligible activity for subsidies according to the EU, but also according to the regulatory framework for the implementation of the NSRF, which explicitly excludes shipbuilding and ship repair until now.
An important positive development is the Commission's decision to allow subsidies for innovation and construction of floating and mobile offshore structures, when their use involves the exploitation of renewable energy sources.
In this context, we propose the following actions/projects:Provide incentives to shipowners for the construction and repair of ships in Greek islets and docks, especially regarding their engines.
Construction of floating ecological desalination systems using wind turbines.
Construction of floating wind turbine systems for power generation.
Construction of floating means of collection, management, treatment and recovery of municipal waste from small islands.
Construction of floating systems of tourist interest.
Construction of a new type of aluminium tourist boats, which can use renewable energy sources for their propulsion needs.
Exploitation and utilisation of all the country's ports by improving and modernising their infrastructure.
Important measures to follow the liberalisation of cruise shipping.
Greek cruising, even today, continues to be restricted by cabotage and its consequences, which
has its roots in 1926 and was established to protect national shipping from competition from foreign companies.
At EU level, the full lifting of the embargo was achieved in 1992 for shipping and in 1999 for cruise shipping.
However, in Greece to this day there are still serious problems in the cruise sector.
Cruise can become an important source of revenue for Greece and the country can share a significant amount of the international annual turnover, which exceeds €40 billion (in particular, for the Mediterranean region, the turnover exceeds €10 billion, while Greece had a turnover of only €476 million in 2017 from cruise passengers).
But the main problem that cruise ships visiting Greece encounter is the infrastructure and in particular the port and the areas around it.
The ports of Piraeus and Thessaloniki, but also some ports on large islands, such as Crete, can accommodate cruise ships, provided that some interventions are made in the infrastructure in order to make them qualitative and attractive.
Under current conditions, tourists arriving in Greece on cruise ships and/or arriving in the country for cruise tourism are estimated to leave revenues of more than half a billion euros.
With the right changes to port infrastructure and by facilitating cruise shipping, this revenue can be increased dramatically!
ELLINIKI LYSI believes that shipping, if combined with growth in the primary economy and tourism sectors, can contribute substantially to the restart of Greece's economy.
HELLENIC SOLUTION is ready to implement its proposals and plans immediately!
PROGRAMMATIC POSITIONS OF THE 'GREEK SOLUTION' FOR INDUSTRY
A country's industry depends on raw materials, on
skilled workers, on
energy, on
competitiveness, which is a function of wages and investment, on the
ability to market the products produced (distribution networks), on the
contribution of the state, on
transport infrastructure and on technology.
Greece has notable chemical industries, wood and paper processing industries, building materials such as cement, oil refineries, pharmaceutical industries, agro-processing industry and shipyards that are unfortunately dormant.
The development of industry depends mainly on the electricity produced by a country, so it is unacceptable for Greece to sell its largest company, the electricity company, which has a market value today of €500 million, when Portugal's is worth over €12 billion.
Especially because the majority of the energy produced by the PPP comes from lignite and hydroelectric power plants, where 90% of the river water is not allowed to end up in the sea, because the corresponding investments are not made.
Of course, this energy is not enough to cover our needs, so oil and gas are imported.
After 2010, the country's industrial production has shrunk considerably, but has started to grow again.The
primary sector, tourism and shipping must support Greece's industrial development, which can free it from the trap it has been led into, increasing GDP
and creating competitive jobs.
The aim should be to export only finished products and not raw materials, which are one of the country's most important assets and should not be "donated" exported raw.
The industry's main problem is very expensive energy due to taxes and incompatible agreements with Russia, especially the unstable tax framework,
the inability to finance the long-term investments that characterise the industry.
Also the lack of planning on the part of the State through the Ministry of Industry, which should be linked to all the relevant bodies, as well as to the Universities and the Polytechnics, in order to create new units in fields where Greece has significant competitive advantages.
HELLENIC SOLUTION aims to support Greek industry at all levels, resolving the issue of precise energy in cooperation with Russia,
and its proposals are listed below in its programmatic positions for development.
PROGRAMMATIC POSITIONS OF THE "GREEK SOLUTION" FOR DEVELOPMENT
Growth is the goal of all the Greek governments and all the political parties that have passed through the country, especially since the signing of the first memorandum, until today.
Although all politicians talk about the longed-for Growth and claim that their political program is the one that will bring Greece out of the crisis and recession, a closer study of the proposals proves that they are just airs and graces, unrealistic solutions and campaign promises that are impossible to be implemented in practice!
ELLINIKI LYSI, having a strategic plan that is the result of years of study and research, presents specific, realistic and immediately implementable proposals, which within a short period of time are able to lead Greece on the path of Growth and prosperity!
Our proposals are the result of painstaking research that focuses on the National Interest and the well-being of Greeks!
ELLINIKI LYSI knows that the only way to growth is to focus on investment and entrepreneurship!
Of course we are talking about real investments and real development of entrepreneurship, without transferring businesses to Balkan countries, in order to save entrepreneurs from the predatory tax raid of the State!
The Development Policy of the HELLENIC SOLUTION has as a point of reference the Development Policy of economically strong and prosperous countries, which have a continuous and substantial rate of growth.
These countries were a "Case Study" for us, a source of knowledge and inspiration!
ELLINIKI LYSI to attract investment and stimulate entrepreneurship in the country has drawn up a detailed strategic plan, which includes the following measures - proposals: Creation of an independent investment and entrepreneurship office, staffed exclusively by technocrats and successful Greek entrepreneurs.
The office will officially come under the Ministry of Finance, but will be independent of political/party interventions and will focus on investment, innovation and new businesses in the country.
The power to audit the office will be vested in Parliament alone, twice a year.
Establish a plan for comprehensive financial support to new businesses and investments.
Programmes to support new investments and businesses will be developed, with the participation of the state, foreign investors and banks.
Significant tax relief and tax exemption for the first two years for any company that chooses to make High Risk and High Return investments.
These are the characteristics of innovative investments and this is how the state shows its practical support to the entrepreneur who chooses to take a risk.
The tax exemption for the first two years will significantly help the entrepreneur until the investment starts to pay off.
Once the business starts performing and generating substantial revenue, then it will be taxed at a low tax rate ONLY on Net Income.
Bypass all time-consuming and counterproductive bureaucratic procedures and reduce the time for approval of applications for investment and new business start-ups!
The time between the submission of the request and the issuance of the permit should not exceed 1 month!
The lengthy bureaucratic procedures and the long time needed for the study and approval of applications is the second main reason for avoiding investment in Greece!
The first reason is the absurd overtaxation of all businesses, which has nothing to do with the actual revenues of the business!
Creating a tax system that is friendly to entrepreneurs and investors.
The taxation that has been applied by all Greek governments to date shows that the state does not see business as one of the main drivers of economic growth!
On the contrary, for decades the State, with its policy, has shown that it "hates" private initiative, businesses (small, medium and large) and investment.
The taxation imposed is anything but fair and seems to have a "punitive" character for the entrepreneur who dared to invest in Greece!
ELLINIKI LYSI therefore proposes the introduction of a low tax rate of 8% on all new businesses and on any business that invests its money back in Greece for ten years.
This will apply to any new investment in the country.
Thus, unemployment will fall sharply,
contributions to the social security funds will increase, which will be filled with money,
consumption in the domestic market will increase because the number of unemployed citizens will be reduced
and the country will return to the much desired growth rate!
Submission of a Development Programme, with emphasis on industry and with the aim of completing it within three years.
Comprehensive Change in the State's Relations with Citizens and Business and a Culture Change in Public Administration.
Strengthening the Private Initiative by securing entrepreneurship, healthy competition with respect to labour rights, GDP Growth and Fair Distribution.
Immediate completion of all the country's infrastructure projects, which have been pending for decades.
The improvement of state infrastructure, such as the country's roads and ports, make our country an ideal environment for attracting capital and new investment.
As regards the stock exchange, all derivative products will be banned, while banks will be divided into commercial and investment banks.
Speculation will be avoided by a 50% tax on profits on shares when they are sold in less than 12 months, which will also apply to real estate.
It will also seek to list more corporate and government bonds for trading on the stock exchange, to facilitate the financing of companies directly by investors, without the mediation of banks,
and to "securitise" and list on the stock exchange the country's assets that can be exploited to generate profits in the future.
Thus the stock exchange will become a mechanism for financing both the private and the public sector, in a free but not unfettered market.
Finally, particular attention will be paid to capital flows through banks - where, depending on funding needs, high interest rates will be given only on deposits with a maturity of more than twelve months.
A development bank, along the lines of the German Kfw, is also needed.
HELLENIC SOLUTION has a plan that can lead the country to Growth!
PROGRAMMATIC POSITIONS OF THE "GREEK SOLUTION" ON TAXATION - TAX EVASION
The Greek governments of recent years have been trying to increase state revenues in the absurd and inherently unsuccessful way of over-taxing citizens and imposing taxes on top of existing taxes!
They don't want to understand the economic axiom that when tax rates exceed a ceiling of citizen tolerance, then tax evasion is fueled and the state's tax revenues decrease instead of increase.
Excessive taxation, the swelling of citizens' debts to the state that have exceeded €100 billion, zero revenues to the state coffers and the imposition of new taxes, are leading the Greek economy into a deep recession!
At the same time, citizens are becoming poorer and poorer every year and the private sector, which was the "engine" of the economy and fed the state insurance funds, has now been dismantled!
The unfair tax system and the imposition of taxes on citizens that they cannot pay, inevitably leads to tax evasion.
Under the current tax storm, with rates ranging from 22% to 45% of the income of all citizens (13% for agricultural cooperatives and farmers' groups, 15% for property income up to €12,000), the direct taxes collected by the state in 2015 were €19.94 billion and indirect taxes €23.78 billion.
The total income declared by 8,516,953 taxpayers in 2015 was €73.93 billion, including €32 billion for wage earners, €24.65 billion for pensioners, €5.94 billion for real estate income earners, €4.15 billion for investment income earners, €4.82 billion for businessmen and freelancers, €1.34 billion for farmers, €769.5 million for seafarers and €183 million for depositors.
The share of direct taxes on citizens' incomes now stands at around 27%, while employees and pensioners declared incomes of €56.65 billion or 76.62% of the total, bearing the overwhelmingly largest share of taxes.
On the contrary, professional entrepreneurs with 4.82 billion €, declared only 6.5% of the income.
Based on the percentage targets of the Independent Public Revenue Authority for 2017, as reflected in the budget, the sources of revenue totalling €46.858 billion (eventually reaching €47.56 billion) were as follows: Direct Taxes €20.415 billion: personal income tax €9.172 billion, corporate income tax €3.236 billion, special categories €1.251 billion, property tax (ENFIA) €3.132 billion, direct P.O.E. taxes €1.291 billion and other direct taxes €2.333 billion.
Indirect taxes €26.443 billion: VAT €15.476, Petroleum products €1.879 billion, Tobacco €0.663 billion, Other transaction taxes €0.509 billion, Capital transfers €0.225 billion, Stamps €0.281 billion, Insurance premium tax €0.384 billion, Vehicle registration tax €0.165 billion, Other E.Taxes (tobacco, etc.) € 3.013 billion, Vehicle registration taxes € 1.106 billion, Other excise duties € 0.369 billion, Indirect taxes P.O.E. € 0.549 billion, Other indirect taxes € 0.362 billion, etc.
In the 2019 budget, the various categories of revenue are as follows: In this context, ELLINIKI LYSI proposes to reduce the tax rate for legal entities (businesses) to 15% with a 50% advance payment, which would cost the public revenues of €2.2 billion.
This difference could easily be covered by the increase in companies' turnover, by attracting new investments and by the voluntary reduction of tax evasion due to the low rate.
As for individuals, again with the aim of reducing tax evasion, the state should establish a simple and fair tax system, such as the following: tax-free income up to 12,000 euros, from 12,000 to 20,000 taxed at a rate of 15%, from 20,000 euros to 50,000 at 25% and above 50,000, whatever the income, at 35%.
A prerequisite for the creation of tax consciousness among citizens is fair taxes,
systematic control by the State, the exemplary attitude of those in charge,
the offence of tax evasion to be made personal, as it is in America, and the penalties to be punitive for anyone who evades taxes.
ELLINIKI LYSI has prepared proposals that can be implemented immediately, help to create a fair tax system and facilitate the payment of taxes.
The basic solutions that we propose and that are immediately applicable are the following:Reduced tax rates, to be applied from the next financial year, as above (15% for businesses, a scale from 15% to 35% for individuals, with a tax-free amount of €12,000).
Greece has one of the highest rates of taxation of wage labour compared to OECD countries.
The same applies to the VAT rate and the income tax rate for legal persons.
Especially for legal entities, the high tax rate, combined with the EFKA, the additional 15% tax on dividends and the unacceptable 100% advance tax, makes it completely unprofitable to do business.
In addition, new extraordinary taxes on already taxed income, such as the solidarity levy or the property tax, are constantly arising.
Global experience has shown that the level of tax rates is linked to the rate of growth.
The lower the tax rates, the higher the growth rates of the state!
Special VAT regime for Food and Drugs at 10%, for Islands at 7% and for all other transactions at 20%, gradually reducing to 15%.
Greece has one of the highest VAT rates in the OECD, while at the same time special conditions and peculiarities of Greece, such as our many small and large islands etc. are not taken into account.
Electronic connection of all transactions and production processes, from the production base to final consumption.
No "Electronic Citizen's Card", the application and use of which we condemn!
The imposition of capital controls in the summer of 2015 made credit and debit card transactions an everyday occurrence.
Transactions will be made with special cards (not RFID) that will make tax evasion almost impossible.
But it is also an essential step towards electronic invoicing, which can combat the delay or avoidance of VAT refunds.
Abolition of Presumptions and Establishment of a Fair Tax System, where everyone will be taxed on the basis of their actual and net income and not on the basis of what the Ministry of Finance imagines or assumes!
The fairer the tax system, the less tax evasion there is.
When the state reaches the point of seizing 70% of the income of an owner of a small business, such as a kiosk or a shop, then it is only natural that the citizen hides the income!
Taxes cannot exceed 15% of actual net revenues and it is unacceptable that the costs of households or businesses are not arbitrarily deducted from their taxable revenues, such as the EFKA.
Moreover, by reducing over-taxation, the State will benefit because every citizen will have more money to consume, to spend on the market, many sectors and businesses will benefit and the State will receive more revenue from VAT.
Combating corruption and bribery in the public sector.
The largest and most cases of corruption are found in the public sector.
The state has to scrutinise its public officials and their assets to see if they are in line with their salaries.
Automatic Debt Offset and Refunds.
Abolition and deletion of all Fines-Surcharges imposed by the State to the Citizens,
so that the citizen will be asked to pay only the outstanding capital and not the usurious interest that the State itself has imposed.
Creation of a tax scale based on the Criterion: "Income - Expenses = Taxable".
We provide a solution to the problem of insured - uninsured freelancers with the following measures:
Writing off 50% of the unpaid contributions created during the years of recession.
Recalculation of contributions based on their annual income.
Removal of the health insurance contribution, since the self-employed person who was uninsured was required to pay the corresponding contribution.
Removal of all illegal interest (from 3 to 48%) and surcharges imposed because the professional's contributions are individual and not employer contributions.
The resulting amount will be adjusted in such a way that the professional will be able to pay it off by the time he or she retires, but will also be able to cover the current contributions, which will be aligned with his or her actual annual income, rather than in tables with an increase every three years.
Electronic connection of all transactions, from the refinery to the service station, from the field to the shop, from the factory to the consumer.
Operation of the fuel inlet/outlet control system which have been installed but never operated.
ELLINIKI LYSI has clear and realistic proposals for the creation of a fair tax system in the country, which will also help to reduce tax evasion.
PROGRAMMATIC POSITIONS OF THE "GREEK SOLUTION" FOR HEALTH
The effects of the economic crisis are now visible and felt in all areas of Public Life, even in the Health sector!
Health is the highest good, the protection and safeguarding of which every Western Welfare State must provide FREE of charge.
However, this is not the case in Greece under the memorandum! From 2009 until today, in 2018, health benefits have been constantly reduced and downgraded.
It is characteristic that the National Health System (NHS) has been underperforming for many years and is now on the verge of collapse.
All these situations have led to a deep crisis in the health sector in Greece!
What is now required is an immediate restructuring of the health sector and a reconstruction of the operation of the NHS,
so that health becomes once again a social good accessible to all!
The measures to be taken must take into account two parameters, mainly: (1) the part of the state budget that can be allocated to health and
(2) the inactivation of private health care services, due to the financial problems faced by Greek citizens.
The Health Policy proposed by ELLINIKI LYSI is based on a NEW PHILOSOPHY for the NHS which is based on the following fundamental pillars:
I. The implementation of Preventive Medical Education and Care.
II. The provision of Integrated Primary Health Care.
III. The provision of Secondary - Hospital Health Care.
The reorganisation of the operation of the NHS and control of expenditure.
More specifically, our above POSITIONS - PROPOSALS are the following:  (I) . University Medical Schools, Schools of Health Branches (HEI and TEI), as well as the Welfare Departments of the LGUs will be included in the Supreme Health Council.
The task of all these institutions to implement Preventive Medical Education and Care will be:
1.  The inclusion in primary and secondary education of preventive medicine and care courses in all branches of everyday life.
2.  The practice and training of students in the provision of First Aid at the individual and collective level.
3.  The training of the elderly in KAPHs and Elderly Communities with the aim of systematic mutual help and support of the elderly.
4.  Collective education in systematic blood donation,
awareness of organ and bone marrow donation,
recycling,
environmental protection
and conscious choice of healthy eating habits.
5.  Mandatory training of public and private sector workers in preventive medicine, good health, healthy nutrition and physical exercise.
Regular semi-annual or annual events (such as seminars, workshops, workshops, sports tests, etc.) to ensure overall good health.
The Supreme Health Council will be constituted as follows:
(a) Central Board of Directors A
seven-member Board, elected by the General Assembly of the Supreme Health Council, in which all health and insurance institutions will participate.
University schools of health, administration and economics are also included.
The Central Board will set the overall policy of the NHS, prepare the annual budget, monitor the proper functioning of the NHS and integrate the NHS into the stock exchange.
(b) Central Audit Board.
It will be composed of Independent Executives and Technocrats specialised in the Health Sector, following a competition.
It will control the overall financial activity of the NHS (in accordance with the Greek and EU legal framework) and will intervene to prevent any deviation.
It will prepare a Strategic Development Plan for the NHS and will work with the main objective of financial self-sufficiency and independence of the NHS.
(II). The current NHS is considered and is a hospital-centric system.
This means that most primary care is allocated to hospitals and shows that the current system is not working well, to the detriment of secondary care.
A redesign of Primary Care throughout its structure is therefore required.
Given that Primary Care de facto includes overwhelmingly most of the health services provided to citizens,
it becomes extremely necessary to include as many units as possible in the Primary Health Care Structure.
Primary Health Care means all services and operations carried out with the aim of preventing and restoring health damage in the following:Outpatient clinics of hospitals, all-day clinics and diagnostic laboratories.Services of the ambulance service.Health Centres and Regional DispensariesRural ClinicsPolyclinics and dispensariesRecovery - rehabilitation centresContracted private clinics operating outpatient clinics and diagnostic laboratories for the performance of medical procedures and paraclinical examinations.Contracted private bodies, as described in Article 28 of Law 3846/2010(A',66)Doctors of KAPHs - Centres for the ElderlyHospitality CentresMental Health UnitsDialysis UnitsPatient Primary Health Units of Article 14 of Law 2071/1992 (A', 123)
Maternity, Child and Adolescent Protection Centres, where the institution has them.
Therefore, for the provision of Unified Primary Health Care (PHC), it is necessary to reorganise the PHC Infrastructures and integrate them into a single entity.
First Aid Centres (urban and regional) and any other similar service are added to this single body.
The main objective of the programme is to gradually free the hospitals from PHC and to devote themselves FULLY to secondary care.
(III) Secondary Health Care (SHC) means all services and operations performed within the inpatient departments of hospitals, in contracted private clinics, mental health units, closed inpatient recovery-rehabilitation centres and chronic disease treatment centres, including those performed during day hospitalisation.
The operation of the above-mentioned units is affected by a variety of factors,
such as the increasing number of citizens seeking public health care,
the increased demand for hospital services, the
number of unnecessary hospital admissions, the
possibility of long-term care for chronically ill patients
and the provision of long-term rehabilitation and recovery.
Since the outbreak of the economic crisis, the number of patients admitted to hospitals has been steadily increasing at an annual rate of 10%!
The increase in the number of patient admissions to public hospitals can be attributed to two main causes:
1. The ageing of the population, which inevitably leads to a sharp increase in the need for hospital care and
2. The increase in the number of citizens who resort to public health care, due to the inability to resort to the private sector because of the economic crisis.
At this point it is worth mentioning another important indicator of the quality of public health and hospital care, which is the number of hospital beds.
The term 'hospital beds' is defined as all available beds in hospitals, mental health units and other specialised treatment facilities (excluding nursing homes and institutions), supported by qualified nursing staff and made available for immediate use by patients.
According to OECD data, Greece has about 4 hospital beds per 1,000 people.
This number is indicative of the limited capacity of the NHS to create new hospital beds or activate existing ones that remain inactive due to staff shortages.
It should be noted that on an annual basis, the number of available hospital beds is decreasing, due to the constant cuts in the health sector and the merging of hospitals.
ELLINIKI LYSI is here to propose immediate and realistic proposals - solutions for the reorganization and effective operation of the NHS, so that no Greek is deprived of the good of Health!
These proposals are:
1. Immediate reopening of all ICUs of the hospitals of the country.
2.  1. Staffing with medical and nursing staff of all hospitals throughout the country that remain closed due to lack of staff, such as the new and modern Hospital of Livadia.
3.  Free health care and hospitalization for all Greek Citizens, regardless of whether they belong to an insurance fund or not.
4. Free health care only for legal immigrants who have proven to have the necessary legal documents, green card, are punctual in their tax obligations to the Greek State, are insured in public funds, work and contribute financially to the Greek economy.
5. Priority for Greek citizens in ICUs and hospital beds.
6.  Treatment of illegal immigrants, who do not have legal documents and have illegally entered Greece, only if they pay in advance the total amount that their treatment and hospitalization will cost the Greek State.
Otherwise, the State has the right to refuse their care, as is the case in America, where the concept of "Free Health Care" is unknown!
7.  Equipping all hospitals in the country with the necessary medical and pharmaceutical materials.
8.  Development of screening programs (secondary prevention) at the national level, with the implementation of National Screening Programs based on international scientific protocols for early diagnosis of diseases and conditions.
9.  Tackling infectious diseases, which are on the rise in times of economic crisis.
10.  Immediately address the shortages for the MMR vaccine and for pneumococcal vaccine for children up to 1 year of age.
11.  Free vaccination for all Greek children from the age of 0 - 15 years.
The children of foreigners, regardless of whether they were born in Greece or not, will have to pay the cost of the vaccine, as is currently the case for Greeks.
12.  Mental health care and free mental health support to address the increased incidence of depression and suicide.
Greater emphasis will be placed on people in debt relief programmes, on multi-troubled families and on mentally distressed people.
13.  Re-establishment of programmes for intravenous drug users, strengthening of rehabilitation units and implementation of specific addiction prevention programmes for the school population, strengthening the institution of health education officers and in each educational directorate.
This is why the budget of the ELPNO needs to be strengthened, while at the same time the SDEOE should regularly control the funds allocated.
Medicine and Health Financing
By way of introduction, total health expenditure consists of public (the amount the state invests in health in total) and private (the money people pay for health services).
In 2009, the average Greek spent $906 a year on health services, the fourth highest amount in the euro area.
But the state had 1972 dollars, the fifth smallest amount in the Eurozone.
For comparison, the average European had $759 of his own money, while the state had $2,682.
Overall, Greece had relatively low health expenditure, due to the low state participation, which was relatively close to the Eurozone average (2,878 for Greece, 3,441 for the Eurozone).
In 2016, the average Greek continued to spend almost the same amount ($927 per year) on health services despite the crisis.
The state, however, reduced its expenses to $1,296.
In 2016, the state allocated the least amount to health than any other country in the Eurozone, so the extra money (€676) was borne by citizens.
Total health spending in Greece was €15.5 billion in 2010, having fallen to €8.7 billion in 2014, or €6.8 billion!
In terms of GDP they fell from 6.8% to 4.9%, despite the collapse of GDP.
On the contrary, private spending as a percentage of total health spending increased from 30% in 2010 to 40.3% in 2014, again burdening Greeks, as a second hidden tax on them (a third hidden tax is tuition fees, due to the bad education system).
So Greece today as a state has the lowest health spending in the whole Eurozone, while Greeks continue to put extra money out of their pockets to take care of their health.
Not to be seen, they are calculated as a percentage of GDP, without mentioning that Greece has lost 27% of its GDP since 2008 plus the 10% growth that was the average of the Eurozone, so the only one in the world history of 37%!
In terms of pharmaceutical expenditure, Greeks in 2009 spent €782 per person on medicines, with the Irish second at just $661, and the Eurozone average of €553 per citizen.
In 2015, pharmaceutical expenditure in Greece had fallen to $552 per citizen, very close to the Eurozone average of $561.
However, in 2009 we spent 27% of total health expenditure on medicines and in 2015 we spent 26%, while the average in the Eurozone is 16%.
Since we entered the Euro, and up until 2003-2004, pharmaceutical expenditure in Greece was very close to the Eurozone average.
In 2009 we became a champion in pharmaceutical expenditure, which soared to €5.1 billion from around €2 billion in 2003, having fallen to €1.95 billion in 2017.
The main reasons for the surge in drug spending are mainly the following:1.  The launch of a large number of new - expensive drugs in the 2000-2009 decade
2.  The lack of price control instruments in order to obtain the average of the three lowest in Europe
3.  The setting of a high first price despite the pricing regime based on the average of the three lowest prices in the EU (Greece was one of the first countries to "receive" new formulations)
4.  The substitution of old cheap drugs with new more expensive ones
5.  Keeping the first price stable for more than 3 years
6.  The delay in repricing
7.  The absence of evaluation and reimbursement without control by the funds
8.  Unlimited prescribing without safeguards
9.  The absence of electronic prescribing and computerised systems
10.  Illegal exports of preparations which were reimbursed within Greece
11.  The marketing of pharmaceutical companies
12.  The rise of polypharmacy
Continuing, Greek citizens have an essential need for pharmaceutical preparations in order to ensure their health.
The Greek State, like any welfare state, has the obligation to produce and market the medicines that citizens need.
In this context, it is necessary to develop and support the pharmaceutical industry, which can become one of the most dynamic and economically efficient sectors of Greek industry.
More specifically, the 2014 economic data showed that the pharmaceutical sector provided 132,000 jobs and contributed about 7.55 billion euros to GDP (about 4%).
In addition, the state received around €400 million in tax refunds and social security contributions.
However, restrictions on public spending have led to many cuts that are causing serious problems in the health sector.
It is therefore clear that the NHS is facing insurmountable obstacles and serious shortages, at a time when more and more citizens are seeking help in public hospitals!
These problems are further exacerbated by the fact that for the first time a closed budget is being set for hospital pharmaceutical expenditure (€570 for 2016, €550 for 2017, €530 for 2018).
As a consequence, the distribution of high-cost medicines is negatively affected.
We cannot overlook here that the pharmaceutical sector makes a significant contribution to the country's overall foreign trade.
Exports of pharmaceuticals in the last three years have exceeded €1 billion, making them the first exported product in terms of value,
although actual exports, excluding legal parallel exports, have decreased (Source: Eruostat International Trade, EU Trade since 1988 by CN8, EOF).
At the level of pharmaceutical policy, for 2016 the agreement with the lenders foresees a series of new measures, such as
centralised tenders for the supply of medicines to hospitals,
negotiations between EOPYY and pharmaceutical companies to reduce costs,
the implementation of strict treatment protocols for the 20 most expensive treatments and patient registries for new, innovative treatments.
The HELLENIC SOLUTION for the financing of Health proposes a series of measures, some of which relate to the exploitation of resources that will come from medicine, namely:
1.  Setting VAT on medicines at 6%.
The amount resulting from this tax will be assigned DIRECTLY to the Ministry of Health to finance and pay for the needs of hospitals, the on-call duties of medical, nursing and paramedical staff and for the supply of medical technological equipment.
2.  Incentives and promotion of Research and Development actions - Production of domestic medicines - formulations for domestic consumption, but also for export.
3.  For this purpose, we propose the establishment of a NATIONAL PHARMACEUTICAL INDUSTRY,
in order to provide additional incentives for private pharmaceutical companies with special incentives for low production costs and tax exemptions to remain in the country and operate by providing jobs for scientific and other personnel.
4. The patient contribution for medicines should be set at 10% for all categories.
5. Promote reorganization of all administrative services in hospitals with the help of New Technologies.
6.  Medicinal herbs fall under the category of drugs.
It is therefore proposed that the Ministry of Health, in cooperation with the Ministry of Rural Development, will set up a programme for the cultivation of these herbs, where farmers who will be engaged in these crops will have a reduced income tax compared to the rest.
These herbs will be used for the domestic manufacture of preparations, but also for export as raw material, processed or unprocessed.
7.  Implementation of our Strategic Plan for the use of medicinal herbs and aromatic plants in the production of high quality cosmetics.
Greece is the only country in the world that, due to its climate and suitable geophysical conditions, can develop such crops, since there are more than 3,000 registered medicinal and aromatic plants, such as the Aloe Vera varieties cultivated in Crete, which are a global success.
8.  In addition, the financing of the Health Sector can also be achieved through a 1.5% tax on gambling and cigarettes (which will be paid, like VAT, directly to the Ministry of Health), from donations, sponsorships, the exploitation of legacies (renting and not selling), from various other activities such as concerts for certain groups of patients, exhibitions, etc.), grants from various Organizations and the return of 2% from the revenues of toll stations throughout the country directly to the Ministry of Health.
9.  Strengthening Medical Research and Training of Doctors of ALL levels (Second and First Level Attendants, Directors and Co-ordinating Directors by participating in International Conferences, Seminars and Publications).
At the same time, we are implementing an Interconnection Plan of the Hospitals with Research Centres and Hospitals abroad for the further training of Greek Doctors, as well as for specializations per specialty.
10.  We review all medical acts and examinations.
11.  We implement a Certification procedure (ISO) in all Hospitals (Private and Public), in accordance with the standards of Kavala Hospital.
12.  We abolish Law 3754/2009, concerning the costly and multi-directional system regarding the upgrading of doctors in the NHS.
13.  We are implementing a Special Awareness Program for Greek women and men to carry out Preventive Checkups and at the same time, we are addressing the vaccination of the population collectively and not individually.
14.  We are actively showing our support to Greek women who become mothers.
The state will stand by new mothers at every birth, ensuring a minimum contribution to the cost of childbirth in public hospitals (almost 10%) and providing a state gift that includes baby supplies.
This move will be practical proof that the state is there for mothers at the most important time in their lives.
The HELLENIC SOLUTION has as its main priority the restructuring of Public Health, in order to achieve quality living for all Greeks!
ELLINIKI LYSI believes that no Greek should be deprived of the good of Health!
PROGRAMMATIC POSITIONS OF THE "GREEK SOLUTION" ON DEMOGRAPHY AND SOCIAL SECURITY
Demography is one of Greece's biggest problems today, since deaths now exceed births,
while the mass migration of young people not only has a terribly negative effect on the country's GDP (hence on public revenues, social security, etc.) but also on its population decline, by 6% in 2015.
In this respect, the creation of a Ministry of Family, as in some other EU countries, should be seriously considered, with the aim of supporting young parents.
Especially in terms of youth migration, calculating that the cost of a person coming of age to start working is in the order of €200,000,
Greece has so far exported a workforce, 80% university-educated, at a cost of over €100 billion, which is being exploited by countries like Germany, and we all paid for it.
We believe that a policy of birth subsidies is necessary to solve the demographic problem.
More specifically, the benefits for all children of Greek nationals with tax residence in Greece, under the age of 18.
When they are not working or are unemployed, then until they reach the age of 21.
The allowance will be €150 per month for the first child, €170 for the second, €190 for the third and €210 for each subsequent child.
It is given either directly to weak families with incomes below the minimum tax-free threshold, or as a tax relief to the rest, if it suits them better.
Now, by way of introduction, with regard to the social security system, special reference should be made to the dependency ratio, which measures a country's capacity for development, based on its population and the number of its workers.
In particular, the dependency ratio is calculated by dividing the population under 15 and over 65 by the population between 15 and 65 years of age - i.e. those of working age - taking as a given an unemployment rate of 8%.
Usually this economic indicator is below 1, because the numerator is lower than the denominator.
That is, the number of dependents is less than the number of workers,
so on the one hand, the non-workers can be supported, and on the other hand, it is a necessary condition for the development of a country, provided, of course, that normal investments are made.
In Greece, the dependency ratio before the crisis was already problematic, since it exceeded 1 (1.36), in the sense that it did not ensure growth in the economy, nor the maintenance of the non-workers by the workers.
In 2016, this indicator was largely exacerbated by unemployment, reaching 1.66.
This means that, for every worker, there were 1.66 people who were not working and had to support themselves, while the economy was not growing (which, moreover, continues, and the index is perhaps even worse if we accept that real unemployment is at 28%).
In this context, for the purpose of comparison, Germany's dependency ratio was and is not so problematic, since for every worker there is less than one person who is not working and has to support, and it has improved due to the reduction of unemployment, so logically the growth rate of its economy has increased.
It is obvious that Greece, with a dependency ratio of 1.66%, cannot possibly have sustainable growth, stable in the long term, even if we assume that investments would be made.
Besides, the insurance problem is obvious, also because of the high dependency ratio, so solving it, as long as this ratio does not improve, is more than utopian.
Furthermore, the punishing policy of the memoranda is imposed on Greece, which does not allow for any hope of an increase in domestic demand that could trigger new investments.
At the same time, not investing is impossible to increase the competitiveness of our economy, so exports (i.e. exploiting the demand of other countries), even if the wages of workers were reduced to zero.
Therefore, the only solution on the part of the lenders is first of all to correct the dependency ratio so that it falls below unity, which means reducing the population over 65 and under 15.
As a consequence, the aim is to reduce life expectancy, as well as births, and thus to reduce the total population, with a preference of course for these two age groups.
In order to achieve this, the well-known measures of reducing the welfare state and health expenditure, reducing pensions and incomes, excessive tax increases, etc. are applied,
with the result that on the one hand, the elderly die more quickly, and on the other hand, young people do not give birth to children, since they are unable to care for them.
This is precisely why the population of countries that the IMF invades to "help" them is rapidly decreasing, as in the example of Russia, whose population then decreased by 15 million people.
Continuing, in order to be able to evaluate the issue of pension spending, which is one of the most important in Greece, with the insurance in general being the top bomb in the foundations of the economy, one has to have accurate numbers, which differ greatly from the myths that are circulating.
In this context the following: With regard to the highest percentage of citizens over 60, Japan comes first with 30%, followed by Italy (27%), Germany (26%) and Finland, Greece, Bulgaria and Portugal (25%).
The big problem here is that of pensions, to which of course one must add health care costs, and it peaks in those countries that combine high levels of ageing with a high unemployment rate.
This means that the situation in Greece is dramatic, as it has by far the highest unemployment of all the countries mentioned above.
According to 2012 data, pension expenditure in Greece was 17.5% of GDP and in Italy 16.5%, while the EU average was 14%. In 2015 Greece spent €28.5 billion on pensions, or 16.12% of its GDP or 55.4% of net state budget revenues, which was €51.4 billion. The table below shows Greece's comparative figures with some other countries. As the table shows, Greece has the worst ratio of pensioners to workers, with only 1.35 workers for every pensioner, mainly due to the huge unemployment rate.  But even if the country's entire workforce (4.76 million) were employed, the ratio would be 1.79 (again the worst among the countries mentioned above).Furthermore, average pensions in Europe range from €250 per month to €1,600, where in Greece it was €882 (€713 main and €169 supplementary), in Portugal €833, in Spain €1,020, in Lithuania €242, in Slovakia €408, in Poland €504, in France €1.032 € (plus 25% to 50% supplementary), while in West Germany 1,576 € for men and 1,302 € for women (in the former East Germany 1,303 € and 1,219 €).Greek pensioners in terms of the amounts they receive monthly, if we count only old-age pensions, 48,791 receive more than 2,000 € per month, but 37,364 of them receive on average 2,168.17 € per month. Of the 402,353 death pensioners, 1,084 receive more than €2,000, while of the 231,536 disability pensions, 681 are above €2,000.If all amounts above €2,000 were deducted from old-age pensions, the annual savings would be around €191.5 million. (only 0.67% of total pensions), while for the other categories the annual savings would be much lower (found by multiplying the figure by the amount above €2,000). Similarly, if all amounts above €1,500 were deducted from old-age pensions only, the annual savings would be around €484 million (1.70% of total pensions), including multiple pensions. Finally, if amounts above €1,000 were deducted, the annual savings would be €777 million (only 2.73% of total pensions). However, only 255 people receive pensions of more than €4 000, so one understands the extent of the myths being circulated. Now based on the 2015 minimum wages, which in Germany were about the same as the average pension, it is foreseen that pensions will be further reduced until they reach the minimum wage on average, unless the minimum wage is increased.
In total, however, there have been 23 different reductions in seven years, costing pensioners around €50 billion.
The graph shows which pensioners, which funds and how much they have been charged, and it can be seen that apart from the fact that salaries are higher in the public sector than in the private sector, which is unacceptable, something similar applies to pensions.
For the 2018-2019 period we now have the following: (a) A cut of at least up to 18% in pensions paid through the personal difference;
(b) A reduction of up to 30% in new pensions issued under the Katrougalos law;
(c) Limitation of the ESAS for over 140,000 low pensioners;
(d) Reduction of new supplementary pensions;
(e) A new reduction in the lump sum of up to 6%
; (f) A freeze on pensions without any nominal increase.
ELLINIKI LYSI, knowing all these problems, believes that the recipe for their solution is one and only one: the production of wealth in our country,
which will trigger the return of the young people,
will increase births,
will reduce deaths,
will reduce unemployment,
will raise wages,
will support pensions, etc.
Especially with regard to the pension system, it also proposes a combination of a contributory and redistributive system, so that on the one hand pensioners are remunerated according to their contributions and on the other hand, those who are really in need are supported by the social security funds.
The HELLENIC SOLUTION has as its main priority
improving the dependency ratio and combating demography through growth, in order to solve the social security problem and ensure population preservation
PROGRAMMATIC POSITIONS OF THE "GREEK SOLUTION" FOR RENEWABLE ENERGY SOURCES
Renewable energy sources have been on the minds of Greek governments for the last 26-27 years.
The main areas of policy interest are
(1) renewable energy sources,
(2) energy saving and
(3) rational use of energy.
However, despite the vital need - at a global level - for a shift to alternative energy sources, Greek governments, since 1990, have not shown the required interest and have not made any progress in the energy sector,
even though Greece, as a country, with its climatic conditions, is the ideal place for the creation of wind farms, wind turbines, solar collectors and photovoltaics, which should be built here.
ELLINIKI LYSI, recognizing the importance of the exploitation of renewable energy sources, has drawn up a strategic plan for a National Energy Policy, which has as its main objectives the exploitation of all available alternative, renewable energy sources and the creation of installations throughout the country,
which will help to increase state revenues,
improve the daily life of Greeks,
reduce unemployment,
exploit the scientific potential available in the country
and ultimately, to provide cheap energy for all Greeks and export the surplus energy.
ELLINIKI LYSI has the following proposals for the National Energy Policy: 1.  1.
Immediate meritocratic staffing with scientific personnel, graduates of our country's polytechnic schools, who have specialized in the energy sector.
2.  Cooperation with the regions, in order to record the climatic peculiarities of each region and the possibilities of creating facilities for energy production through alternative renewable sources.
3.  Provide government support for energy-related patenting and innovation.
Individuals will be supported by the state to further develop their patents and if they prove successful, they will then be guaranteed a lifetime of monetary income for the state's exploitation of their idea.
4.  State provision for fund raising and international call to interested investors to invest in the Renewable Energy and Energy Conservation Centre to enhance study and research.
5.  Collaborate with the Russian state, one of the major international players in the sector, for joint actions in the field of Energy.
6.  Provide incentives and state support to all individuals who want to install energy production systems from alternative renewable sources in their homes, so that they can be self-sufficient.
7.  Use the energy produced to power public transport.
Transport will become environmentally friendly, using renewable energy sources and thus, in addition to the environmental benefits, it will become more economical for citizens to travel and reduce ticket prices.
8.  Work with the regions to create one energy park per region.
The energy parks will be open to citizens and schools and will have the main objective of informing and raising awareness of energy issues.
9.  Creation of a Network of Cooperation with foreign countries on energy issues.
10.  Creation of a Strategic Plan, so that in 10 years, all the islands of Greece will be energy autonomous and self-sufficient!
Wind turbines and photovoltaic systems will be installed on each island, in order to produce the necessary electricity that the island needs and the surplus energy will be used for the operation of modern desalination plants.
ELLINIKI LYSI cares for the Greek islands and wants to improve the living standards of the inhabitants, making their daily life easier!
11.  Exploitation of the uninhabited islands of the country for the creation of wind parks and the installation of photovoltaic systems, where the energy produced will be exported.
12.  Exploitation of the WAVEPLAM programme - "Intelligent Energy for Europe" - with the aim of reducing or even removing the non-technological barriers that are likely to arise when large-scale applications of wave energy technologies are ready to be installed.
This project aims to harness wave energy.
Greece is clearly one of the European countries that can and should participate.
13.  Utilization of waste for energy production and recycling to obtain useful reusable raw materials.
ENVIRONMENT AND ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE SECTOR
The HELLENIC SOLUTION in the context of modernizing the current anachronistic, fragmentary and confusing Greek technical legislation and its harmonization with the modern world that is currently undergoing the fourth industrial revolution, such as robotics, artificial intelligence, digital technology, green energy, etc., intends to abolish the 21 thousand pages of legislative texts (Laws, Presidential Decrees, Circulars, etc.) that currently frame this sector.
ELLINIKI SOLUTION will create a new, modern, comprehensive and practically effective digital library of technical legislative texts and practical guides that will respond to the modern technological developments of the 21st century, making Greece a pioneer within Europe.
The country cannot be run through a chaotic bureaucratic and irrational polygamy.
The fact that even today there are laws that contain conflicting or overlapping provisions results in a huge confusion between the public stakeholders and the concerned citizen or the potential investor who wants, but cannot create wealth through innovative and technologically advanced businesses.
Greece is one of the first in the world to be governed by thousands of Joint Ministerial Decisions (JMDs), Interpretative Circulars etc. and not by Laws.
We hold the first place in executive arbitrariness, where the elected government of the day interprets or disregards and repeals at will the laws issued by previous governments, in order to serve both petty party interests and various professional guilds, as well as the great economic interests of the economic "elite" and its associates, with obvious damage to the social and national interests of the country.
ELLINIKI LYSI, staffed by experienced technocrats, has developed a comprehensive plan for the modernization of the public administration concerning urban planning, networks, environment and green energy.
- Issuance of Building Permits and Business Licences
ELLINIKI LYSI will give top priority to updating the current Greek Building Regulation, with the aim of simplifying all building conditions and the process of issuing building permits,
as well as all existing legislation on the licensing of small and medium-sized enterprises.
Specifically, ELLINIKI LYSI will give immediate priority to solving all the outstanding issues that have plagued the Greek reality for decades and especially issues related to the determination of land use, with respect to the environment and the aesthetics of the area,
the declassification of forest areas that are no longer forest, but only on paper, mainly in urban and peri-urban areas, will redefine the special high-demand tourist zones in order to create new tourist investments, ignoring the various obstacles put forward by reactionary movements with regressive concepts or phobic ideologies.
The first concern of HELLENIC SOLUTION in cooperation with the HELLENIC TECHNICAL TRADE COMPANY (TEEE) will be the completion of the National Digital Map
that will cover the entire Greek territory and which will contain clear and comprehensive information on the legal and urban planning status that prevails per area, the building conditions, the environmental restrictions, the respective land use, theland registry information, etc.,
so that every citizen or investor can obtain all the necessary information in a minimum of time by clicking on the digital map and in the area of interest, without having to refer to the existing laws in order to obtain information on the entire legal and urban planning regime and to assess the net benefit of his investment.
The issuance of business licenses will be done through an electronic procedure on a special electronic platform, similar to the one currently installed by the Ministry of Environment and Energy for the issuance of energy certificates or home savings programs.
The responsibility for the completeness, completeness and accuracy of the submitted data, i.e. the studies, drawings, certificates, attestations, declarations, etc. will be borne exclusively by the engineer or consultant who will be legally responsible for its issuance.
This means that in the event of an audit if a breach of the application of the legislation is found, the issuer of the electronic licence will not only face administrative and civil sanctions, but also severe criminal sanctions.
This will put an end to face-to-face transactions between civil servants and citizens.
The end of this face-to-face contact will automatically put an end to the licensing obstructionism, the hostage-taking of interested citizens by public bodies, the lengthy procedures and the possibility of a wrong decision due to the many actors involved, or the insufficient knowledge and training of civil servants in the specific subject, and the subjective interpretations of the legislation.
It is noted that the current procedure of issuing permits by submitting printed documents, plans, etc., damages the public sector, but mainly the citizens concerned with millions of euros per year.
Also, the storage of all these licensing files in the archives of public bodies is a major problem of location, safe storage, but their destruction by natural or fraudulent artificial causes.
ELLINIKI LYSI will create the Corps of Sworn Inspectors of Licensing Businesses , which will consist of certified private technocrats (engineers, consultants, etc.) , as in other cases (e.g.e.g. chartered accountants, building inspectors , etc.)
who will randomly check the legality of the issued electronic licenses, while this body will be directly controlled by the relevant minister and in case of violation of their oath, will be subject to severe criminal and administrative sanctions. -
Issuance of a Digital Register of Maintenance of Networks and Infrastructures
ELLINIKI LYSI will for the first time in history control the safety and maintenance of all public infrastructure - networks of the country by establishing an Electronic Maintenance Register (bridges, roads, airports, ports, sewage networks, flood control networks, etc.).
The regions, municipalities, providers, etc. will register all planned maintenance of technical works based on Greek and European legislation.
All the history of failures, repairs, maintenance will be recorded electronically on a special platform of the Ministry of Environment and in case of control of improper maintenance, improper safety measures, malfunctions, etc., the competent infrastructure operator will be held accountable to justice.
This register will be the presumption of legal sanctions against anyone involved in maintenance in case of failures.
- Improvement of legislation concerning energy saving in the country's building stock.
ELLINIKI LYSI will proceed to amend the existing legislation that frames the issues of energy saving in buildings.
Specifically, in addition to the NSRF programmes concerning energy upgrades of residential buildings (e.g. the Save at Home II), it will activate other financial tools through NSRF for the energy shielding of buildings in the tertiary sector (Hospitals, Schools, Hotels, Businesses, etc.), which has
not been implemented in any similar programme to date, to the depth and extent that should bring about substantial energy savings and therefore money in the country's energy balance.
The Greek Solution has as a permanent concern the gradual disengagement of the country from imported energy (natural gas, oil, etc.)
and the gradual installation of green energy systems, taking advantage of its rich solar, geothermal and wind potential, which deliberately the economic interests of the country's economic elite hold the Greek government hostage.
The Hellenic Solution will reward companies investing in green energy with a special tax and insurance scheme in order to mobilise and attract new investors with simple licensing procedures.
As regards households, in addition to the well-known home saving programmes, those who will not be included in them and yet will undertake energy shielding of their buildings (frames, insulation, solar, PV, geothermal pumps, etc.) with their own funds will be exempt from VAT on the energy equipment and materials incorporated into the building and bring about certified energy savings in accordance with the minimum requirements of the Energy Performance of Buildings Regulation (KENAK).
The VAT exemption will not reduce government revenue, as it will reduce the costs of importing primary energy from third countries.
The Greek Solution will link the property tax to the energy class of the property.
Greater energy efficiency of a property, lower proportional tax , lower energy efficiency of a property higher tax.
- Environmental protection and energy production from biogas.
ELLINIKI LYSI will promote environmental and ecological education and information of citizens, starting first from school, the family, the business in order for Greeks to form environmental and ecological awareness.
The immediate measures to be undertaken by the Hellenic Solution will be:To promote continuous improvement of the environmental performance of all organisations-businesses based in the country.
Tax relief in relation to other companies that have adopted effective and innovative environmental management systems with corresponding certification by the competent environmental management bodies.
Organic waste management for biogas energy production.
The creation of integrated municipal waste management systems, which will drastically reduce the volume of municipal waste.
In this context, the millions of tonnes of animal waste produced annually in our country, which are generally thrown away uncontrolled in thousands of Kuroupitos, will be included as an immediate priority.
The waste could be used to create biogas from which heat and electricity can be produced with a total capacity of 350 MW - about as much energy as we have to import every summer due to increased demand for electricity.
The creation of 10 to 15 such units throughout the country would be enough for this purpose.
In addition, the process of converting waste from butcheries, slaughterhouses and poultry farms into biogas produces a high-efficiency fertilizer, 85% cheaper than its commercial counterparts.
- Electronic Identification of Buildings and Addressing Urban Arbitrariness
ELLINIKI LYSI will undertake a radical revision of all the existing planning legislation concerning the treatment of planning violations and arbitrariness,
with a view to dealing effectively with arbitrary building and the protection of the built environment, and not on the basis of the logic of levies, which unfairly burden property owners.
Specifically, ELLINIKI LYSI will apply all demolition protocols without any exception and will proceed to the demolition of all arbitrary buildings that have been illegally built within forest areas, streams, coastal areas and natura areas, no special fines to these arbitrary buildings.
In addition, for properties built with a building permit and have an excess of building, but within the contour, height and volume of the building, without violating the street and building line at the same time, will be exempted from the obligation of settlements-legalizations from any violations made within the aforementioned building conditions.
In addition to the planning legality check for all existing buildings that have been removed from the building permit file of the building under the responsibility of public services, the planning legality check, will be made only on the basis of the drawings of the notarial recommendation of the property and not with the obligation to reconstitute the permit file at the responsibility of the citizen, as is currently the case,
since the citizen does not bear the responsibility for the loss of public documents (plans, diagrams, etc.) from the archives of the locally competent planning services.
The electronic identity of buildings is a proper recording of the country's building stock, this will be done once in all buildings by competent engineers within a reasonable period of time at the expense of the state, while any urban planning violation occurs after the first electronic recording,
the citizen must, at his own risk and expense, inform the database of the Planning Violations Observatory of any building changes to his property and not be forced to carry out periodic (5 years or 7 years) updates of the property if no substantial building changes have occurred.
In the event of random inspections by building inspectors, if modifications to the existing building are found and the building has not issued the relevant permit or updated the permit file, or has concealed the changes to the building, the law will impose the civil and criminal penalties provided by law.
ELLINIKI LYSI will move in the spirit of urban planning legality, respecting the current statutory building conditions per area, respecting the environment and the aesthetics of the built development,
but in no case will it impose charges on property owners who have made minor violations such as internal changes to their property, or variations in the internal installation that do not affect the static and safety of the building in general.
PROGRAMMATIC POSITIONS OF THE "GREEK SOLUTION" FOR PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION
The economic crisis that erupted in the country and the deep recession in all sectors of public and private life made the need for a radical restructuring of the Public Administration more visible than ever.
The deep entanglement, the corruption of some public officials and the clientelistic relations that the party in power was "building" with the voters, gradually created a massive, slow-moving "mechanism" called "Greek Public Service", which has as its main characteristics sluggishness, reduced productivity, bureaucracy and lengthy procedures.
It is characteristic that all the memorandum parties, while taking very tough measures for all classes of workers and imposing radical changes in the private sector, have avoided taking drastic measures - or at least measures equivalent to those imposed on the private sector - for the public administration.
The reason is that this is where all the "customers-voters" are.
So, it is now known that the private sector, which was the "engine" of the Greek economy, was "sacrificed" in order to save the public sector.
The problem is not so much the number of civil servants, although it is 8% higher than in Germany, but their unproductivity, which is mainly due to the flimsy structure of the civil service.
Radical changes and structural reforms are therefore needed in the way the Public Administration is organised and operates, because this in turn affects other key sectors, such as investment, entrepreneurship, employment and, more generally, the proper functioning of the state.
THE GREEK SOLUTION CONSIDERS THAT THERE IS AN URGENT NEED TO IMPLEMENT RADICAL REFORMS IN THE PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION IN ORDER TO MAKE IT MORE RESPONSIVE, FUNCTIONAL, EFFICIENT AND EFFECTIVE AND TO CONTRIBUTE TO THE REDUCTION OF PUBLIC DEBT
The way the Civil Service is currently organised, it is anything but functional and efficient.
Some of the "bad texts" include:Recruitment and appointments in the public sector are not based on meritocratic methods, candidate qualifications and objective criteria, but on clientelistic relations.
The behaviour of public services is often unacceptable towards citizens, even though the only reason for the existence of these services and civil servants is to serve citizens and to regulate their affairs in the best possible way.
Numerous structures and officials, which instead of facilitating the service to citizens, make it more difficult, due to lack of effective organisation, fragmentation of responsibilities, low efficiency and poor management of human and material resources.
Inadequate use of new technologies, resulting in a low quality of the Greek Central Administration and the service to citizens and many problems due to long delays and time-consuming procedures.
ELLINIKI LYSI seeks to streamline the entire Public Administration, in order to make it more flexible, functional, efficient and effective.
Of major importance are the following:The improvement of the quality of the services provided
The modernization of the Public Administration
The reduction of unnecessary expenditure and operational costs
The meritocratic selection of employees who staff the public services
The fight against corruption and corruption in the Public Administration
The proposals of HELLENIC LYSIS for reforms in the Public Administration are:
Reduction of government expenditures related to the maintenance and operation of the Public Administration by: (1) reducing public sector salaries to reach the same level as private sector salaries;
(2) concentrating the fragmented and scattered Public Services;
(3) utilizing all public buildings in order to eliminate rental costs;
(4) abolishing most NGOs, which offer nothing of substance to the state, but simply employ employees who are paid particularly high monthly salaries.
Moreover, the remuneration of public sector employees is higher than the euro area average as a percentage of GDP (graph), as well as significantly higher than that of the private sector.
The ultimate goal of the HELLENIC SOLUTION, of course, is to increase private sector wages in line with the competitiveness of the employees plus inflation, so that the public sector, which, unlike the private sector, has permanent jobs on the one hand and several other privileges on the other, will not suffer.
Evaluation and control of the qualifications of all public servants and dismissal of those who are in this position through unqualified and unqualified procedures.
Appointment of Civil Servants with strict criteria, following a rigorous recruitment competition and verification of the existence and validity of all necessary documents and qualifications.
Establish the necessary structures and committees in each relevant Ministry for the effective monitoring of the respective Public Services, the procedures followed, including expenditure, internal control, audit and human resources management.
Continuous monitoring and control, through a generalized monitoring system, directly controlled by the Prime Minister, which will evaluate the effectiveness of the Public Service with specific quantitative and qualitative indicators.
Creation of an independent Coordination Committee, whose members will be appointed by the Prime Minister himself and whose role will be to coordinate the various public services.
Most problems, delays and bureaucracy occur mainly when more than one Public Service is involved in a case.
Then, the lack of coordination and insufficient cooperation between services makes it even more difficult to resolve the case and serve the individual citizen.
Moreover, it is often observed that many public bodies have overlapping responsibilities and are involved in the regulation of the same cases.
Therefore, the Coordination Committee will be responsible for coordinating and ensuring the cooperation of public services in order to avoid inconveniencing citizens and avoiding bureaucracy.
Modernization of the Public Administration and introduction of New Technologies,
in order to reduce bureaucracy, to facilitate the cooperation of Public Services and those citizens who can, to be self-sufficient from their home computer.
Utilisation of New Technologies,
so as to gradually lead to savings and the avoidance of bureaucracy that will contribute to the proper functioning of the state.
This will also streamline and speed up administrative procedures and increase transparency.
Establishment and creation of strict control mechanisms, consisting of non-political and non-public servants, with the responsibility of controlling and managing the human resources of public services.
The lax control mechanisms that currently exist in the public administration encourage the emergence of corruption, cover up misconduct and reinforce the client state.
Therefore, it is necessary to formulate a rigorous and organised human resources management strategy, based on meritocracy and the absence of political interference in the selection and development of civil servants.
In addition, these control mechanisms will be responsible for evaluating the performance of human resources.
More specifically, individual staff appraisal can enhance transparency in the civil service, facilitate career development and mobility, and reduce the number of redundant staff.
Establish a simplified public pay system, including salaries and allowances and taking into account information collected by the control mechanisms and the evaluation of public servants.
This will create a fair system where pay reflects duties and productivity.
Restoration of the institution of permanent directors-general in the Ministries, as it was before 1964.
With these proposals, ELLINIKI LYSI seeks to radically restructure the Public Administration and Public Services to
make them more functional, efficient and effective in serving citizens.
In addition, it seeks to fight against the waste of public money, corruption and corruption, as well as the rational functioning of national institutions, without which it is impossible for a country to produce wealth.
PROGRAMMATIC POSITIONS OF THE "GREEK SOLUTION" FOR JUSTICE
Justice is a public good, the ultimate goal of which is the well-being and security of citizens and the preservation of social cohesion.
However, the system of administration of justice is inextricably linked and dependent on the laws that have been passed and are in force in each state.
Therefore, the more inefficient, complex and numerous the laws of a state, the more inefficient and slow the process of delivering Justice.
ELLINIKI LYSI has concrete and realistic proposals for the restructuring and modernization of the Greek Justice system, so that the citizen feels safe and protected, the laws apply to all persons regardless of whether they are ordinary citizens or persons with power and authority, the state functions properly and social cohesion is not endangered.
The proposals of HELLENIC LYSIS for the restructuring and modernization of the judiciary are the following: 1. creation of a special Commission, which will be directly controlled by the Prime Minister, composed of unbiased Judges, who will have now retired and will be responsible for the control and evaluation of Justice, the identification of problems and the submission of proposals-solutions for them.
2. Checking the constitutionality of the Bills, amendments and P.D.'s by the CoE, before they are submitted to the Parliament for voting and come into force.
3.  Creation of an Electronic Archive in which the decisions of the Courts throughout the country will be registered, with the full name of the judge.
This will create a single, integrated, complete and accessible to all the Greek Courts' Electronic Case Law Database, as is the case in most European countries.
4.  Creation of an Integrated Electronic Case Management System for Civil, Administrative and Criminal Justice.
5.  Improvement and modernization of the digital services of the Court of Audit.
6.  Combating the slow administration of justice and speeding up procedures.
It is unacceptable for a case to take 4-5 years to be heard!
ELLINIKI LYSI proposes measures to combat this sad phenomenon that prevents the orderly and smooth delivery of justice.
7.  Immediate recruitment of judges, since the existing ones are not sufficient, for the adjudication of the numerous court cases that are on hold.
8.  Electronic archive and register of prisoners from all detention facilities in the country.
9.  Immediate implementation and use of electronic means of supervision of defendants, convicts and prisoners on leave.
10.  Immediate abolition of parliamentary immunity and the law "On the Responsibility of Ministers".
11.  Change the "Life Imprisonment Act". Life imprisonment will be life imprisonment and not 25 years, as is currently the case.
12.  The criminal offences that will carry a sentence of life imprisonment will additionally include the following offences:
Drug trafficking, misuse of public money, human trafficking, paedophilia, participation in terrorist organisations and trafficking in illegal immigrants.
In addition, for the offence of paedophilia, in addition to life imprisonment, a measure which has started to be implemented in Australia in recent years is the injection of paedophiles, which causes infertility and impotence.
13. Transfer of powers to service legal councils
HELLENIC SOLUTION has realistic and immediately implementable solutions for the radical restructuring and modernisation of the judiciary.
We have the WILL and the WILL to implement all the measures.
PROGRAMMATIC POSITIONS OF THE "GREEK SOLUTION" FOR INNOVATION
The Greek governments that have passed through the country to date have not been interested in the development of the innovation sector, which is of paramount importance for the economic development of Greece.
Innovation in Greece is sidelined, governments do not give incentives to citizens, so the available European resources and funds remain unused.
Greece needs innovation actions that can lead to increased investment and entrepreneurship.
This translates into revenue for the Greek state, but also into increased employment at the social level.
In Greece of crisis and recession, fortunately there are still many Greeks who resist with innovative ideas and patents!
ELLINIKI LYSI feels obliged to support these Greeks and help them in the implementation and application of their innovative ideas!
THE GREEK SOLUTION SUPPORTS GREEK INNOVATION AND CONSIDERS IT AS ONE OF THE DRIVERS OF GROWTH AND RESTARTING THE ECONOMY!
ELLINIKI LYSI wishes to promote innovation through a series of concrete and realistic proposals that can be implemented immediately and have a positive impact on the economic and social life of the country.
The proposals of the HELLENIC SOLUTION are the following: 1. Creation of an independent innovation office which will be staffed exclusively by technocrats, successful Greek entrepreneurs and scientists from all scientific disciplines.
The office will officially be under the Ministry of Development, but will be independent of political/party interventions and will be responsible for the evaluation of innovative ideas, the support of innovation in new businesses and the guidance - advisory services to those young people who wish to engage in Start Up businesses (start-ups) based on and developed around an innovative idea.
2.  Creation of an electronic archive at the Ministry of Development, where all Greek Start Up businesses and all registered innovative ideas will be registered.
3.  Creation of a plan for comprehensive financial support to new innovative businesses.
Innovation support programmes will be set up, attracting foreign capital, the participation of the state, foreign investors and banks.
4.  Significant tax reductions for all Start Up companies, which often combine high risk, but also high return.
5.  A complete change in the State's relations with citizens and the creation of an open dialogue for innovative ideas and Start Up businesses.
6.  Change of culture in the Public Administration towards innovation.
7.  Strengthening the Private Innovative Initiative by registering innovative ideas.
8.  Implementation of the National Strategic Framework for Research and Innovation 2014-2020 (NSRF 2014-2020).
9.  Implementation of a stable Research and Development Policy that focuses on the development and promotion of innovation.
10.  Establishment of specialized innovation parks in various major regions, housing many innovative companies together to ensure closer cooperation and better development.
ELLINIKI LYSI actively supports innovation! Our realistic proposals prove it!
PROGRAMMATIC POSITIONS OF THE "GREEK SOLUTION" ON FOREIGN POLICY
Today's international environment is characterised by strong phenomena of instability, volatility, high interdependence and fragile balances.
The international, regional and national security environments tend to be characterized as comparatively concentric fields.
The agenda of the 21st century includes a series of problems - challenges that are becoming increasingly pressing: military conflicts, natural disasters, energy, water resources, migration and illegal immigration, religious fundamentalism, international terrorism, organised crime and piracy, proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, cultural, political and economic globalisation, etc.
Greece, located in a critical geopolitical space and in a rapidly changing geostrategic environment, is called upon to face with credibility and effectiveness a set of complex and multidimensional potential challenges, risks and problems, in a way that favours the safeguarding of its national interests.
Multilateral diplomacy is the most modern and rapidly developing trend in foreign policy, i.e. conducting international relations through the interaction of professional diplomats on issues related to peace, trade, war, economy, culture, environment and human rights in order to attempt to gain a strategic advantage.
In modern times, diverse threats to security and peace of global dimensions are adapting international diplomacy to cybertechnology, while requiring the elaboration of new doctrines of deterrence and strategy.
Greek diplomacy should seek alternative solutions and alternative interlocutors.
The core of foreign policy for the HELLENIC SOLUTION is the National Interest.
In response to modern developments, we are changing the sphere of influence to where the national interest dictates.
We want a Greek-centric foreign policy, with flexibility, without dogmatism in geopolitical and strategic alliances.
Modern ECONOMIC DIPLOMATICS, today, is not only promoting and supporting Greek economic interests abroad, but also introducing mechanisms to exploit new global trends.
We therefore seek the following: (1) Developing trade and improving bilateral relations with Russia, our sister country, China, a historical friend, and opening up to other new markets.
(2) Developing through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' Economic Affairs Directorate the export character of primary production and the factors of our development policy, by organizing meetings between the respective businessmen by export subject (EXTRADE).
Our partners have to understand that in order to pay our debts we have to open their markets to our products, especially those of our primary sector.
Without significant exports, especially to countries with which we have a common currency and which are not affected by appreciation, it is impossible to service any debt.
(3) Identify selected Greek-owned businesses in the Diaspora that are interested in doing business with Greek businessmen.
(4) Informing Greek businesses regarding these proposals for cooperation.
(5) Organizing meetings between Greek businessmen from Greece and abroad during a business meeting event, of a collaborative type (Partenariat).
CULTURAL DOCTRINE is treated as a tool in abundance in a country in decline.
We are a country that has been considered by the international community as a continuator of the ancient Greek and Byzantine tradition, as well as the place where elements such as Democracy, Philosophy and Olympism, which are structural elements of modern Western civilization, first appeared.
The country is an example of a modern state, proud of its history, culture and the achievements of its people,
but at the same time it does nothing in practice to justify its own identity with the "glorious past".
ELLINIKI LYSI will create a Geopolitics sector at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It will claim the misused historical data from third parties and defend the just and historically proven Greek positions.
It will carry out a management of these Cultural Resources, where until now it could be considered not only inadequate but also contrary to any notion of rational exploitation of a "product" in the context of modern marketing.
It will set up a special sector for the protection of Greeks living outside the borders.
In international diplomacy and foreign policy, the GREEK SOLUTION will non-negotiably preserve national sovereign rights on land, sea and air.
On FYROM: Any name of this state will not contain the term Macedonia or its derivative, because Macedonia is one and it is Greek.
On the Aegean: Regardless of their size and geographical location, all islands have a continental shelf, a coastal zone and airspace, elements that under international law clearly define the boundaries of Greek territory.
Continuous surveillance and dynamic defence of national sovereignty.
On the EEZ: Immediate exercise of the sovereign right to define EEZs.
About Thrace: Limitation of the Turkish Consulate in Komotini to purely consular duties.
Vigilance and care for the protection of Greek minorities, wherever they are.
About Cyprus: Support for the Republic of Cyprus by the Greek state, regarding the implementation of UN resolutions and decisions on the withdrawal of Turkish occupation troops, the re-establishment of a unitary and independent Cypriot state with the removal of settlers, the restoration of the population composition similar to 1974 and the payment of Turkish reparations.
PROGRAMMATIC POSITIONS OF THE "GREEK SOLUTION" FOR NATIONAL DEFENCE
We believe that the Armed Forces (AF) are the institutional factor for ensuring national independence, territorial integrity and the dignity of the homeland and its citizens.
The armed forces must also be used to safeguard and promote national interests.
The high level of training and specialization of staff needs a total restructuring from the lowest to the highest level as the current choices of the government risk to be lost, since staff in many cases are employed in subjects unrelated to their duties.
Greece has not defined an EEZ with any of its neighbours, although it has the right to do so under the International Law of the Sea and international law.
However, the Ministry of Defence in cooperation with the other relevant ministries will take this action.
The Armed Forces personnel have suffered a deterioration in their standard of living as there is no direct recognition of the risks faced by the employees, their salaries are constantly decreasing while at the same time the demands and risks are increasing.
The defence mechanism and the security system of our country has been vertically degraded, while the objective of the changes is the establishment of a defence mechanism that will take advantage of the human and financial resources necessary to achieve the objective of national territorial integrity and security.
Therefore, the development of a viable war industry capable of supporting the needs of the armed forces and having an export orientation is essential as this way the least possible dependence on foreign sources for the national interest can be achieved.
The reform of our country's Armed Forces is a national necessity for a radical change in the organization of the armed forces in order to create a smaller, flexible but more effective deterrent defense mechanism.
As well as the possibilities of forging new alliances taking into account the new conditions in the wider geographical area of the South East Mediterranean, which are very different from those prevailing 60 years ago, when the policy of "We belong to the West" and the national interest started to be applied.
Threats are significantly differentiated in terms of their direction, quality and type, which means that we need to radically rethink the origin of modern procurement in order to meet the country's real defence needs and support the development of the national economy.
The participation of forces in the activities of international organizations is a political matter and must be considered on a case-by-case basis, taking into account other national obligations and the national interest.
Incentivise research and development of new defence technologies and encourage cooperation with research institutes and universities.
The State must honour and care for all military personnel, active, reserve and retired.
The implementation of a meritocratic system of evaluation of executives must be the crowning achievement of our efforts, since the excellence of our human resources is the main multiplier of our strength.
The EDs must remain unbiased. Career, development, appraisal and merit issues have a major impact on staff performance.
Professional criteria will also be established for filling positions of high responsibility by implementing a merit-based system for the evaluation of executives.
The Reform Programme
1. Rearrangement of military partnerships: Our experiences so far from our participation in the South Atlantic Alliance, in relation to our engagements with our neighbouring country (Cyprus 1974, Imia 1996), create insecurity for the integrity of the country.
We wish and seek direct, substantial cooperation with any friendly country, based on the interests of our country, on matters of Defence and National Security.
In this context, we seek cooperation on infrastructure, equipment, operational and intelligence issues.
2.  Disengagement of our troops from NATO or UN missions is necessary when there is no national interest, both to protect the manpower of the armed forces and to cut costs.
3.  Defense Doctrine Review: Geopolitical and geostrategic developments in the Southeast region. The geopolitical and geo-geopolitical developments in the Mediterranean region require a revision of the National Defence Doctrine, as if we are attacked or militarily interfere with our internationally protected interests, then the field of confrontation will not be our own space but that of the adversary.
This doctrine must have a clear political dimension as well as a military one.
Strategic alliances and cooperation at the operational level with countries adjacent to the Greek EEZ or other alliances should be pursued, always of course with the national interest as the primary consideration.
4.  Solving the economic problems and injustices created by the Memorandum Governments to the active and retired personnel of the Armed Forces.
Immediate liberation from the political shackles of the memoranda.
Restoration of the injustices committed by the Memorandum governments of PASOK-ND and SYRIZA-ANEL against active and retired members of the Armed Forces and the return of the money that has been deducted from their income, that has been awarded and that has been judged by the Council of State as unconstitutional.
5.  Upgrading the military factories (EAB, EVO and ELVO), with co-production agreements for weapons systems from any friendly country and in the national interest.
Assignment of research and development projects to domestic defence industries and their participation in joint projects with foreign factories in the national interest.
6.  Establishment of a Special Group at the Ministry of National Defence, which will gather Greek Inventions and which, after being evaluated, will explore the possibility of their co-production with factories of foreign countries and countries friendly to our country, always with the national interest as the cornerstone.
In addition, the exchange of know-how and the co-production of defence and military equipment will be pursued, either to meet domestic needs or as exportable material.
7.  Transparency in procurement, re-examination of existing legislative loopholes, we consistently support transparency in defence equipment and propose:
a. Strengthening domestic entrepreneurship and cooperation with Greek educational institutions and agencies.
The search for technological innovations and the shift to high-tech products.
Also, in multinational co-production development and support programs, depending on the national interest
and b. for all supplies, open international competitive bidding, under the control of the competent Committee of the Hellenic Parliament and the complete abolition of direct awards.
8.  The possibility of leasing shipyard tanks to countries friendly to Greece, for the repair and/or construction of ships, at a significant price for the country and for a period of time to be agreed by interstate agreement.
9.  Exploitation of existing infrastructure for upgrading the training of cadres and the inflow of revenues from third countries:
By upgrading the education at the ASEI, ASP and FATF, recognizing as a Master's degree the graduates of the ASP and FATF Schools.
Continuous evaluation in training ensures the utilization and development of each executive according to his/her abilities, thus ensuring the placement of the right person in the right position and avoiding the phenomena of extra-institutional and internal guild interference.
10.  Exploitation and utilization of new technologies, and participation in multinational co-production development and support programs are effective and economically beneficial in the long run, and we should seek participation in accordance with national interest,
while we seek to train executives of allied and friendly countries with the benefit of revenue generation and strengthening relations between countries.
11.  Solving the housing problem of active military personnel by utilizing (abandoned) camps that are near or within a residential zone.
12.  Aunified policy will be drawn up to address the common problems of the uniformed personnel and issues of general interest such as the sustainability of the insurance system, but also the institutional problems
The upgrading of salaries and the employment relationship of personnel.
13.  Establishment of a Defence Equipment Export Promotion and Procurement Agency.
This will bring order to the already chaotic Procurement system and the list of active companies involved in the provision of materials and services to the Ministry of Defence will be directly accessible from the Ministry of Defence.
Also, through the Defence Material Promotion Agency, the promotion of materials produced by Greek defence material factories in third countries will be pursued.
The military factories that exist in Greece have a lot of potential to offer, and can contribute decisively to the production and support of social structures in times of peace.
They are a neglected driver of the country's economy and Hellenic Solution has drawn up a special programme for their exploitation by its specialised members.
The potential for increasing GDP, the country's revenues and jobs from this sector is very large, contributing significantly to the financing of the other parts of our programme.
14.  Establishment of an Independent Procurement Audit Authority in the MoD.
This Authority will control the procurement of materials for the Defence Forces and its upgrading with appropriate personnel, means, procedures of the central body of the General Directorate of Defence Equipment to monitor, plan, implement and support the development of the national industry.
This authority will be of international standard, staffed by fully qualified, bipartisan and scientifically trained personnel.
15.  Re-activation of the necessary and modern military units for the security of the Greek State and staffing them with personnel, preferably recently dismissed, after providing attractive incentives
PROGRAMMATIC POSITIONS OF THE "GREEK SOLUTION" FOR THE SECURITY OF THE CITIZEN
For ELLINIKI LYSI, the members of the Security Corps are the internal security shield of the Greek Citizens against the thousands of immigrants, modern criminals, ruthless smugglers and generally illegal people with a strong offending behaviour.
Also terrorism, asymmetric threats, new forms of crime, trafficking in human beings, crimes against children.
The principles of "Security and Freedom" are part of the human and individual rights of the citizen and are important to HELLENIC SOLUTION - while the key criterion is clear limits that do not restrict the rights and obligations of all citizens.
The safety of citizens, respect and observance of the laws by all those who reside in Greece are fundamental obligations of the State, while there can be no economic recovery without a safe environment.
Public safety, especially the protection of the lives and property of citizens, are not negotiable, nor are they subject to petty politics and partisan exploitation or a way of imposing a party line.
The state must develop new policies to ensure that police services successfully fulfil their mission.
Proposals and solutions At political level
1.(a) Changes in the organisation, structure and operation of the Greek police are necessary in line with successful international standards.
(b) Reconstitution of the Ministry of Public Security and subordination of all the Security Corps and the NSA to it.
2. Placement of a retired Security Corps Officer, well known in his field and with all the formal qualifications, in the position of Secretary General.
3.  Participation of the Minister, Deputy Minister and the respective Chiefs of the Hellenic Police (EL.AS), the Fire Brigade (F.S) and the Coast Guard (L.S) in the National Security Council (NSC)
.  Redefinition of the Rules of Engagement, especially for the personnel of the National Guard, due to the ever-worsening problem of migrants and their illegal actions against Greek citizens.
5.  Reorganization of the NIS in accordance with international standards.
6.  Co-operation of both the Security Corps and the NIS in training, material and operational matters with the corresponding services of other countries.
7.  Meritocratic and objective criteria in assignments, transfers, promotions and prohibition of possibilities of party or other interference.
At Operational - Administrative Level
1.  The creation of special departments in Greece specializing in particular crimes.
2.  The reorganization and upgrading of the role and work of the Tourist Police, in places bustling with tourism, in
order to avoid cases of obscenity and obscenity, for the control of shops to avoid exploitation at an economic level and qualitative.
3.  Establishment of an Air Means Unit of the H.A.S., the P.S. and the A.A.S. at an Air Force airfield, for easier and more direct coordination, maintenance and management of air means.
Training and maintenance of pilot training at the Armed Forces Trans-Atlantic Helicopter Academy.
4. Intensify the control of land and sea entries into the country in order to drastically reduce the crime rate due to foreigners.
GREEK POLICE
1.  Reorganization of the Management and Operational Control Structure of the Hellenic Police.
2.  Withdrawal of police officers from the protection of High and Special Personnel administrative positions, with their utilization in active services of serving the security of the citizen.
3.  Reactivation of the border guard in a special directorate of the EL.AS., with the sole purpose of preventing entry and handling illegal immigrants, with special training and equipment, use of new technologies (drones and Google Map).
Drones should be sourced from the Greek market, in order to strengthen this new technology in our country,
as there are many institutions in Greece (public and private sector), which have ready programs with this technology and are ready to put them into production.
4.  Recruitment of personnel preferably from the border counties, as well as an independent legislative and institutional mission based on the US standards, to restore border security from unguarded intruders (immigrants).
5.  The prevention of the necessary scientific personnel, the continuous training of all personnel for the perfect execution of the work they perform, the further strengthening of the institution of foot patrols, the intensification of the protection of the countryside.
6.  Expansion of bicycle policing in tourist areas outside Attica.
7.  Supply of the appropriate logistical equipment to the EL.AS for the full and proper implementation of its work, corresponding to modern requirements.
Continuous training as the form of delinquency changes daily.
8.  Strengthen the Directorate of Criminal Investigation with qualified personnel and expand its cooperation with other corresponding services in other countries.
9.  Restructure and strengthen the M.A.T. and Y.M.E.T. with personnel and logistical infrastructure for successful implementation of their work.
10.  Re-establishing the necessary police departments or their branches in such a way that the Police protect all citizens of the country living in the cities or in the countryside.
FIRE DEPARTMENT
1. Reorganization of the Command and Operational Control Structure of the Fire Brigade.
2.  Modernization of the Fire Corps (FC) with new materials and equipment, by signing an interstate agreement with any friendly state that offers the best quality at the best price.
3.  Upgrading and strengthening the Corps through the supply of the necessary equipment of modern technology.
4.  Recruitment of sufficient number of firefighters to fill all the posts provided for in the organizational chart.
5.  Procurement of Firefighting Aircraft and Helicopters and their integration at the technical support level in the Air Force
6.  Gradual upgrading and equipping of Fire Fighting Vehicles with new technologies.
7.  Supply of special uniforms for firefighters and volunteer firefighters, as well as other worn or non-functional equipment.
8.  Upgrading of the Fire Academy with Civil Protection subjects in accordance with European standards.
9.  Upgrading at all levels, the General Secretariat of Civil Planning (GSCP) as the Planning - Coordinating - Operational arm of the Fire Service (FS) and its incorporation in its natural space, that of civil protection through its subordination to the central administration of the Fire Service (FS)
10.  Restructuring of services and redefining the role and redesigning the structure, organization and operation of the Fire Service Headquarters (FSC)
11.  Decentralization of the structural functions of the services of the Fire Service and utilization of volunteer forest protection units with material equipment, as well as institutional recognition of their contribution.
12.  Establishment of a course in primary and secondary education, so that the consciousness of the protection of forests and the natural environment of our country can be giantized.
13.  Preparation of a new Organizational Chart and meritocratic and objective criteria in appointments, transfers, promotions and prohibition of possibilities of partisan or other interference
MARINE BODY
1.  The demands in recent years have been great for the Coast Guard, which is called upon to cope with them (especially in the Aegean), hence the reorganization of the Command and Operational Control Structure of the Coast Guard is required.
2.  Immediate strengthening of the Coast Guard's mechanisms for better guarding,
control of the country's ports,
port works,
protection of marine fisheries,
rescue of those in distress at sea,
response to various emergencies at sea,
safety of navigation and control of territorial waters, safety of ships,
marine environment,
quality construction and maintenance of port infrastructure
and working conditions of seafarers.
3.  Dignity and transparency in the Security Corps with modernization and proper allocation of personnel, integration into the system of national examinations for the admission of non-commissioned officers to the Corps.
4.  Establishment and operation of a Coast Guard Academy and its upgrading to the level of a Higher School.
5.  Covering all the positions provided for in the organizational chart of the Coast Guard by recruiting personnel and continuous training to better address the problems.
6.  The establishment of meritocratic criteria for the selection of persons to high-ranking positions of the Coast Guard,
also Meritocratic and objective criteria in placements, transfers, promotions and prohibition of possibilities of partisan or other interference and for the judgments of its officers, is a key component in the proper functioning of the Corps and therefore we will proceed immediately to its implementation.
7.  Creation of a new directorate in the L.S. for the purpose of guarding the maritime borders (naval border security), with special equipment and training, use of new floating and airborne means suitable for this purpose, new technology, in order to meet their operational needs "with special emphasis" in the control, deterrence and handling of migrants.
Recruitment of specialised staff from the border islands as a priority.
For the HELLENIC SOLUTION, the upgrading, restructuring and modernization of the National Defence, the security of the citizen and the care for the citizen is a HIGHEST NATIONAL PURPOSE.
PROGRAMMATIC POSITIONS OF THE "GREEK SOLUTION" FOR PARLIAMENTARIANISM
The political system of post-independence, which has been in force since 1974, is called the "Third Greek Republic".
This political system is propagated by the agents of the system as the best democracy Greece has ever known.
But, as we all know, this political system led the country and the people to bankruptcy, or at least, if anything, was not able to prevent it.
As if that were not enough, we have already entered a slippery slope of national concessions.
But beyond the painful reality we are experiencing, a simple comparison of the institutions contained in the Constitution of the Third Hellenic Republic with those of other developed European countries is sufficient to explain the situation we are in and the political impasse we have entered.
Therefore, this political system will be radically changed or modified,
in order to reverse the country's decadent course on the one hand, and to shield Greece and the Greek people from similar situations in the future, but also from cases of national adventures.
Hellenic Solution therefore proposes that we go into the future in the FOURTH HELLENIC DEMOCRACY.
But in order to do this, that is, to change the political system, it is necessary to make significant interventions in the country's Charter, which
regulates the organization and operation of the State and especially the way in which decisions are taken that determine the course of Greece, the prosperity of the Greek people and the survival of the Greek nation.
The proposed interventions take seriously into account the contemporary reality, the situation in which the country finds itself and especially the pressures that Greece as a nation-state is under from the forces of globalization (of which the Eurozone is part and image).
They also take seriously that the international institutions, on whose rails globalisation is moving, are the creations of representative political systems in the absence of the people.
For these reasons, Hellenic Solution believes that the country's Charter cannot continue to be the exclusive responsibility of the political staff and proposes the participation of the Greek people in its formation.
Globalisation, which essentially aims at the abolition of sovereign nation states and the creation of a borderless single global market for capital, commodities and labour with free movement of economic migrants, was created and expanded based on and sustained by the representative political system, what we call parliamentary democracy.
So here is the crucial point.
Simple managerial changes to the representative constitution, such as those proposed by the other parties, which do not negate its basic disadvantage, namely that international economic power can control representative governments and through this control leave the people unprotected and in fact exposed, do not make sense.
The Hellenic Solution proposes the introduction of new institutions for the organisation of the State, which will detach political power from the control of economic power.
This proposal is not only about our internal affairs.
In essence, it puts Greece back at the forefront of global developments and is the Greek response to globalisation.
The Hellenic Solution proposes the establishment of a dynamic democracy as opposed to the static one in force today.
It is the possibility that ensures progress over maintenance.
It is also the ability of popular minorities to put at any time, on their own initiative, to the popular judgment, issues that concern sections of society and require reconsideration under the new social and technological conditions.
It is ultimately the possibility that ensures social peace, since legitimate avenues for the expression of popular discontent and the imposition of the popular will are provided.
DETAILED PROPOSALS
(1) FORM OF GOVERNMENT
α. The bankrupt prime minister-centred super-centralised, hyper-centralised constitution we have now will be changed and the person responsible for doing so is the supreme sovereign organ of the State, i.e. the people themselves.
b. It will be defined that powers are (and will be) exercised by the people and not simply that they exist for them, as they do now.
(2) TAXATION
Greek citizens will contribute without discrimination to public burdens, according to their net incomes.
(3) EDUCATION - PRIVATE SUSTAINABILITY
Higher education will be provided by institutions that are legal persons under public law with full autonomy, as well as by private university or polytechnic institutions and institutions owned by local authorities.
These institutions will be under the supervision of the state, but only state institutions will be entitled to financial support from the state.
The thorough teaching of Greek history, the Greek language and individual and political rights will be compulsory in secondary and primary education in order to create well-educated Greek citizens.
(4) FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION
The phenomenon of partisan trade unionism that harms the interests of workers must be eliminated.
The real interests of the workers come first, through a non-aligned trade unionism, not their party hatred.
Thus, elected trade unionists will not be able to be simultaneously members of a political party and will not be able to occupy an elected or appointed political office or political position before four years have elapsed since the end of their trade union mandate.
Trade unionism will also not be allowed in the armed forces and the police.
(5) SOCIALISATION OF THE STATE
α. The state will cease to be an oppressor of society and a means of serving party patronage and will become an instrument in the hands of society to serve the social interest,
i.e. it will ensure freedom,
social security,
social peace,
economic development,
social justice,
fair distribution of national income through fair taxation
and ensuring free enterprise for all.
b. The salaries of all types of public officials will be a function of the private sector basic wage.
(6) PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC
α. The President of the Republic will be directly elected by the people and his term of office will be four years and for two four-year terms only.
b. The candidate for President will be that person nominated by parliamentary parties or ten deputies or twenty thousand citizens.
c. The President shall be elected only by a Greek citizen born and of Greek descent, with a Greek father or mother, having only Greek citizenship and having attained the age of forty years.
d. The President elected by the people shall be restored to the President at least the powers he had under the 1975 Constitution.
(7) REFERENDUMS
In addition, referendums will be held on any issue when 100,000 citizens request it.
(8) PARLIAMENT
α. The number of Members shall be 300.
On the contrary, the smaller the number of MPs, the more they will be distributed among certain political families and the more easily they can be controlled by economic power.
b. The permanent electoral system will be simple proportional representation with the simultaneous abolition of the 3% entry threshold.
There will of course be a provision for non-participation in the elections or expulsion from Parliament of a party that is not composed of Greek citizens or expresses views that violate the history and territorial integrity of the country or advocates the interests of a foreign state or raises minority issues.
c. Deputies shall be elected for a maximum of three four-year terms.
d. In all cases there shall be a fixed four-year term.
e. Half the number of deputies shall be elected in the middle of each four-year term.
f. Members will have the right to vote by conscience.
However, the institution of recall by the same citizens of the constituency of the elected MP is introduced.
The first runner-up shall take the place of the person whose name is withdrawn.
The institution of recall will be enacted by a decision of the people themselves in a referendum.
g. A Member of Parliament may not have immunity for criminal offences.
He will not be prosecuted only for votes cast in Parliament and for his speeches in Parliament, unless they are defamatory against specific persons.
i. Proposals for laws will be made by Parliament, by the government (bills), and by 30,000 citizens.
j. A tax or any other financial burden will not be able to be imposed by a law with retroactive effect.
(9) GOVERNMENT
α. The office of Member of Parliament is incompatible with that of Minister.
A person elected as a member of parliament will not be able to become a minister, even by resigning from the office of member of parliament, for the entire period of his election.
b. No person shall be appointed a member of the Government unless he has previously exercised a profession in Greece for at least five years and has corresponding professional insurance.
c. The Government will compulsorily prepare a balance sheet of the State at the end of each year and will be publicly accountable before the Parliament for the faithful observance of the adopted budget.
(10) MINISTERIAL RESPONSIBILITY
Complete abolition of Article 86 of the Constitution.
Ministers will have the same responsibility and be treated in the same way as ordinary citizens.
(11) JUSTICE
α. Following a decision of the people by referendum, the election by the respective voters of a local citizen who has been practicing law for twenty years as head of the prosecutor's office of each county for a four-year term shall be established.
The remaining existing prosecutors will normally be professional judicial officers, as they are today.
b. Judicial officials (judges and prosecutors) will be promoted and transferred by presidential decree, following a proposal by a special judicial council for this purpose, not by the government or the government majority in parliament.
c. Malpractice actions against judges will be tried by a special court composed of other lawyers in the profession, outside the seat where the defendant judge serves.
d. A procedural manner will be adopted so that the case before the courts will be a unity both in its criminal and civil parts for the purpose of rendering a single decision.
e. In civil procedure, a pre-trial procedure will be adopted with the involvement and responsibility of the judge and not only the private parties.
The judge will be fully responsible for asking for such evidence as he or she considers necessary and, in particular, for clarification on vague points before the case is considered ripe for decision.
In this way, on the one hand, civil proceedings will be shortened by the participation of the court itself in the preparation of the trial, and on the other hand, there will no longer be the phenomenon of dismissing actions as indefinite and inadmissible.
f. There will be simplification and codification of the complex legislation, which nobody knows.
g. A Constitutional Court will be established.
Any provision of a law, declared unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court, shall be null and void and of no effect on all the people, from the publication of the decision or from the time specified in the decision.
This court will be composed by lot from five supreme court judges, five law professors and five lawyers in the Supreme Court for a nine-year term of office, with one third of its members being renewed every three years.
(12) ADMINISTRATIVE DECENTRALISATION
α. Introduce real decentralisation of the exercise of power and the establishment of demos democracy, not just formal bureaucratic decentralisation.
b. The presumption of competence in favour of local government will be established.
Any competence that is not explicitly provided for that belongs to the Central Government will, by the constitution, belong to the CA.
c. The collection of taxes will be entrusted to the local government and from the money collected, it will retain the percentage that is due to it by law, and the rest will be paid to the Central Government.
d. Theauthorities of the local self-government bodies will be elected by universal and secret ballot, by the Greek citizens, with two separate ballots,
one for the Mayor or Regional Governor, as the case may be, who will be elected by absolute majority and
one for the respective councils for which the system of simple proportional representation will apply.
In the event that a candidate for mayor or regional mayor, respectively, has not obtained an absolute majority, the election shall be repeated on the following Sunday between the two candidates who obtained a majority.
e. Upon the proposal of citizens representing 5% of the electorate, a binding local referendum shall be called on any local issue.
f. Following a decision of the people by referendum, the election of a local citizen as the head of the police force of each county shall be established.
g. Elected local government officials will be publicly accountable before an assembly of citizens and will be automatically removed from office in the event of a criminal conviction for the offences provided for in a relevant accountability law.
h. Any property that exists within the territory of an OTA (buildings, forests, roads, and other immovable property, except those of national defence, national energy networks, telecommunications, highways and railways), shall, upon a decision of the people by referendum, become the property and management of the respective OTA.
(13) EXPATRIATE HELLENISM
α. The State will provide for the life of the expatriate Hellenes and the maintenance of their ties with the Motherland.
It will also provide for the education and the social and professional advancement of Greeks working outside the Territory.
b. Greek residents abroad will participate and vote in Greek parliamentary elections and European elections.
(14) REVISION OF THE CONSTITUTION
We adopt dynamic democracy instead of static democracy.
a. There will be no prohibitive deadline for revising provisions of the Constitution, if they prove to be problematic.
b. All provisions of the Constitution will be subject to review, with provision for proportional majorities in relation to the importance of the provisions being reviewed.
c. The process of revising the Constitution will be initiated either by a decision of the Parliament, taken on the proposal of at least fifty deputies and with a majority of three-fifths of the total number of its members, or by the signatures of 200,000 citizens.
d. In any case, the provisions to be revised will be subject to a mandatory referendum for ratification or rejection by the people.
(15) . USE OF MODERN TECHNOLOGY
Modern technology will be used to strengthen democracy by involving citizens directly in the electoral process and decision-making.
ELLINIKI LYSI believes that Members of Parliament have the highest responsibility towards the country and the Citizens!
Every Member of Parliament has a profession, not a trade!
Greece does not need professional MPs, but patriots, who will put the national interest above individual interests!
PROGRAMMATIC POSITIONS OF THE "GREEK SOLUTION" ON IMMIGRATION
The immigration issue is one of the many black spots of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, which is capable of dynamiting the foundations not only of the Greek Society, but of the entire Greek State and Hellenism as a whole!
Illegal immigration has always been a thorn in the side of every Greek Government.
In the Greek Cities where Hot Spots have been created, despite the fact that crime has increased dramatically, the state is indifferent and Greeks are permanently exposed to criminal elements.
Also, diseases reap!
Diseases that have now disappeared from Western societies, such as malaria and typhus, have returned to Greece!
Greek Citizens in Greece are silenced and treated as a minority!
All governments are only interested in the welfare of illegal immigrants.
In a short period of time, they will seize the houses of the Greeks who owe money and in them they will settle illegal immigrants, without caring about the fate of the Greeks, who unfortunately were deceived by false promises and gave them the governance of the country with their vote!
Programmes for the integration of illegal immigrants in Greece are already being prepared and this means that unfortunately they are here to stay!
The alteration of our language, our Religion, our Traditions, our Values and Hellenism in general, is a matter of time.
As long as this dangerous coalition remains in power, that time is approaching ever more quickly!
Greeks must resist and react to win back their Homeland!
Together we must help to lift the nationally dangerous policy that has been in place for almost 4 years!
The Balkan countries have closed their borders because they see the danger coming!
ELLINIKI LYSI calls on all Greeks to follow it before it is too late for our country!
Greece is alone on the migration issue!
It has the support of no one, not even of course the European Partners!
European countries are indifferent to the dangerous migrants trapped in Greece and our country accepts without protest the closure of the borders and the abolition of Schengen, just to maintain the security of the countries of Central and Northern Europe!
The Greek Government does not know the exact number of illegal immigrants trapped in the country!
Sometimes they claim there are about 50,000, while other times they say there are probably fewer or more!
In short, the SYRIZA - ANEL government has no idea what is going on with illegal immigration, how many people are in the country, what their real identity is and where they come from!
All these illegal immigrants are a ticking time bomb ready to explode!
Illegal immigration threatens the social and economic cohesion of the country!
ELLINIKI LYSI proposes the following measures to tackle the problem of illegal immigration:
1. Systematic guarding of our land borders, exclusively by the special corps of the EL.AΣ.
There will be constant patrols and those illegal immigrants who are caught will be removed from Greek territory!
An extension of the Evros dam is also proposed, especially at points where the river level is low and therefore the river becomes passable.
In this context, the cooperation of the Ministry of Defence with the region of Evros is considered necessary.
2.  The maritime patrols in the Aegean Sea will be undertaken exclusively by the Special Border Guard Corps of the L.S. to be created!
In this context, we propose the annulment of the agreement signed by the SYRIZA-ANEL Government on the joint guarding of the maritime borders.
3.  Slave traders arrested by the Greek authorities will be tried by summary proceedings and sentenced to life imprisonment, with no possibility of parole or reduction of sentence.
4.  Prohibition of the creation of camps for illegal immigrants in mainland Greece and transfer of all Hot Spots to chartered boats per country of origin.
Thus, Greek citizens will not be at risk of disease and increased crime.
In addition, it will be easier for the Greek authorities to control illegal immigrants.
There will be increased security teams on these ships.
5.  Decongestion of the East Aegean islands from illegal immigrants.
There will be no Hot Spot left on these islands!
Taking economic measures to restrict the transfer of foreign exchange and control the origin of money.
6.  Immediate deportation of all illegal immigrants in Greece and their return to their countries of origin by sea, using EU and UN funds.
This effort will be helped by the implementation and respect of the 17 Readmission Agreements signed by the EU with countries of origin of illegal immigrants.
7.  Implementation of the electronic identification system for illegal immigrants arriving on the Greek islands, with the cooperation of Eruopol and Interpol
.  Additional EU grant to our country to cover the needs arising from the refugee issue.
This subsidy will not be related and will not be counted with the country's loans!
9.  Reinstate the citizenship laws and suspend implementation for a review of all laws regarding non-community aliens passed since September 2009.
10.  Immediate repeal of the Morocco immigration agreement that was foolishly signed by the SYRIZA-ANEL coalition government.
The proposals of HELLENIC SOLUTION have at their core the national interest and the security of Greece and the Greeks!
Greeks must take back our homeland and preserve our language, culture and religion!
PROGRAMMATIC POSITIONS OF THE "GREEK SOLUTION" FOR THE GREEKS ABROAD AND THE EXPATRIATE COMMUNITY
Outside the borders of Greece there is a second Greece!
It is the Greek immigrants and the expatriate Greeks who love Greece more than the Greeks who have remained in the country!
For Greeks abroad, Greece is their motherland and whenever our country is in need of its children abroad, they are always willing to contribute with all their strength!
But it is not only expatriates and second and third generation Greeks who live abroad.
There are also Greeks who were born, grew up, studied in Greece and were forced in the second, third or fourth decade of their lives to leave the country and their families, seeking better living conditions and professional opportunities that Mother Greece cannot offer them.
That is, they leave, seeking the opportunities they deserve!
In recent years, Greece has once again experienced a huge wave of immigration.
Of course, Greeks who migrate abroad do not arrive in the host countries as illegal immigrants, nor do they leave in order to "stagnate" in economically developed countries abroad, asking for free food and shelter.
Greek children go abroad, having in their quiver of qualifications, degrees, postgraduate and doctoral degrees.
They seek jobs as scientific staff, seeking to improve their lives and futures, while contributing to the development (economic and scientific) of the country where they migrate.
Therefore, ELLINIKI LYSI believes that now the need to develop strong ties with Greeks abroad and the Greek Diaspora is more urgent than ever!
The proposals of ELLINIKI LYSI are the following:
1. Creation of an Office that will be administratively under the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and will be responsible for all issues concerning Greeks abroad and Greeks living abroad.
This office will be in direct contact and communication with all Greek Embassies, while annually it will draw up a plan of actions for Hellenes Abroad and the coverage of the needs of Greeks abroad.
In this way, the Greek State will show in practice that it is interested in Greece outside the country's borders and expatriate Greeks will not feel cut off from the Motherland.
2.  Immediate service to all Greeks who are abroad and need to settle administrative matters in the Homeland.
In this way, the Greek State will show in practice that it is interested in Greece outside the country's borders and expatriate Greeks will not feel cut off from the Motherland.
3.  In cooperation with the Embassies, transnational organizations of social friendship and economic cooperation will be set up on the initiative of the Greek State in all major cities of foreign countries where there is a Greek Community.
In this way, the state will help Greeks to get to know each other, stay united and keep alive the customs, traditions and customs of their homeland.
Also, through these associations the state will be able to communicate and inform Greeks abroad on various issues.
4.  Facilitation of visa procedures for expatriates living outside European countries who do not have Greek citizenship.
5.  Ensuring that the Greek state builds Greek Orthodox churches and staffs them with priests in all major cities abroad where there are Greeks but no churches.
6.  Promotion of Greek Education abroad.
Immediate reopening of all Greek schools that were closed during the crisis, on the grounds that they were financially unprofitable for the Greek state, and staffing them with Greek teachers.
The preservation of Greek education, Greek culture and the learning of the Greek language and history is a long-standing demand of Greeks abroad and of the homogenous Greeks.
7.  Emphasis on meeting the needs of the expatriate community in Russia and addressing the problems in visa and Greek education provision.
ELLINIKI LYSI has as its aim and objective to always stand by the Greeks abroad and the Greek people of Greece!
PROGRAMMATIC POSITIONS OF THE "HELLENIC SOLUTION" FOR THE DISABLES
The Greek State has always been callous and indifferent to the needs of people with disabilities.
Past governments treated disabled people as second-class citizens, while the meagre benefits they provided, which they cut, were given under pressure from the EU.
It was an attempt by governments to keep up with EU policy rather than a practical demonstration of sensitivity and respect for people with disabilities.
ELLINIKI LYSI is here to defend the rights of Greek citizens with disabilities and special abilities, who for so many years have been sidelined by governments and have been on the margins of social life.
The SOLUTIONS proposed by ELLINIKI LYSI are the following:(1) Immediate adoption and issuance of Disability Cards for those with a disability of 67% and above, as defined by relevant regulations.
With this card they will be able to carry out ALL their transactions, i.e. financial and other activities, with public and private institutions.
At the same time, we categorise and register all Greek citizens with severe or multiple disabilities, avoiding double registration.
Because the concept of insurance disability (Article 27, Law No. 1902/90), where three levels of disability are distinguished, partial, normal and severe disability, usually most benefits and facilities are provided to the disabilities belonging to the last two levels, i.e. to those who have normal disability (with a disability rate of 67% to 79%) and those who have severe disability (from 80% and above).
(2) Redesign of the disability allowances granted, as well as the procedure for their award by region.
We are decentralising the process and giving more powers to Regions and LAs*, so that their performance and control is as direct and meaningful as possible.
* At this moment the Government is planning the partial disengagement of the OTAs by concentrating the process in the newly created Organisation for Welfare Benefits and Social Solidarity (OPEKA), in order to reduce bureaucratic costs and automate procedures.
It remains unknown what the future role of the OTAs will be in the future, possibly only for the collection and filing of supporting documents and files of the beneficiaries, which could, with the appropriate use of technology and the internet, be abolished at least for the new beneficiaries.
(3) Restore all disability benefits that have been unfairly cut.
There will be cooperation with the regions and local committees* to review all cases and provide full benefits and pensions to the real beneficiaries, whose decent living is almost entirely dependent on state welfare.
*It is important to note here that, for the most part, the competent committees are the Health Committees of the Disability Certification Centres (KEPA) of the National Disability Insurance Fund (EFKA).
In order to implement the unfair cuts, the CDCs have implemented an opaque system which allows patients to be examined by doctors who maintain anonymity and conceal their medical status.
In this way, the disabled person is not able to know what specialty the doctor is examining, if the doctor is of the specialty corresponding to his/her condition, he/she does not know the name of the doctor, he/she is not given the medical opinion in his/her hands, but only an administrative decision document for the assessment of his/her disability.
This lack of transparency, however, allows in many cases the members of health boards to behave in a reductive and uncivilised manner towards the disabled persons examined, who are not able to protect their dignity and rights.
People with disabilities are subjected to mental anguish since the health examination process, in many cases that have been reported to us, becomes painful (psychologically) for them.
Of course, anonymity can and does offer the freedom to cut the rates of disabled people, thus reducing the number of beneficiaries and the amount of benefits.
It is no coincidence that for the sake of their anonymity, the members of the health committees of the CDC smoked in the examination rooms of the patients!
After our constant complaints, this misconduct has finally stopped.
Unlike the health committees of the KEPAs, the ASYE (Supreme Military Health Committee), which is responsible for civil servants and military personnel, as well as the other health committees of the security forces (the Navy (A.N.Y.E.), the Air Force (A.A.Y.E.), the Hellenic Police and the Fire Brigade), issue disability certificates on which the doctors' names and their medical status are indicated by their signatures.
This disparity in the functioning between the CDCs and the other health boards points to unequal treatment of people with disabilities, in violation of international conventions (UN and European conventions) on the rights of disabled people.
(4) Submission of a Strategic Plan for the Mobility of Disabled Persons by Region.
The Strategic Plan includes the purchase or donation of Disabled People's Transport Vehicles (few and many seats for disabled persons and their companions).
(5) Submission of a plan for the development and reopening of all special schools for children with disabilities, which will be full-day schools with the main objective of smooth integration of the children into society.
(6) Implementation of a plan for the reconstruction of the education and building facilities of schools for the disabled*.
*At this point, we must point out that access must concern every school, even those for which there is no obligation under the new Building Regulation (Law 4067/2012), at least until 2020
(7) Reduction of the fee paid by the disabled for the categories B and C of the ELCs from 46.16 Euros to 10 Euros.
This payment will be made only once and in 3 years, with the completion of our Party's Development Programme, it will be completely abolished for all categories of disabled persons.
With one exception, which is already in place: disabled people who are themselves destitute.
Even ten euros is a significant burden for them.
(8) We are submitting a law to change the procedure for issuing a decision on NON-DISCIPLINABLE CONDITIONS, regarding the granting of Disability Allowances.
Disabled persons belonging to these categories will be examined for the disability, regardless of the age at which the condition is diagnosed, and from the issue of the Decision onwards, they will receive the benefit for life, without review.
The current framework has created confusion as to the concepts of "irreversible conditions", "chronic disabilities", "disabilities of indefinite duration" and "lifetime conditions", resulting in additional bureaucratic costs for the necessary clarifications each time, as well as inequality of treatment for some benefits.
Simplification of procedures and clarification of concepts is needed.
(9) We are implementing a Mental Health and Rehabilitation Plan for people with disabilities, with the planning of 15-day holidays per person with disabilities and per region in places suitable for them, in cooperation with the regions, local authorities and metropolises.
(10) Cooperation with the Regions, the OTAs and the Metropolises throughout Greece, so that the camps that exist in Attica and in the Region - now owned by the OTAs and assigned to them by the Ministry of Health - can be assigned to the local associations of people with disabilities or to their trade union bodies (ESAMEA, POSGKAMEA) so that they can use them for certain periods of the calendar year (e.g.e.g. weekends, Christmas, Easter, Easter Monday, etc.) and not only during the summer period.
With this measure, we help DIRECTLY, not only in the entertainment of the disabled and their families, but much more the abandoned disabled of PIKPA Voula and other institutions of the Region.
(11) Submit a comprehensive strategic plan for the development and creation of all necessary infrastructure that can facilitate access for the disabled to all public and private buildings.
In addition, in cooperation with the urban planning department, the mandatory creation of infrastructure for disabled people in all catering, entertainment and commercial establishments will be enforced, so that these citizens are not cut off from simple activities of daily life.
ELLINIKI LYSI shows with realistic proposals that it is interested in people with disabilities, treats them with due attention and respect and seeks their equal treatment by claiming the same rights that all Greek citizens have!
PROGRAMMATIC POSITIONS OF THE "GREEK SOLUTION" FOR EDUCATION
One of the main pillars of our nation is Education.
The Greek people, as the illuminator of modern Western civilization, are currently called upon, within a severe economic crisis brought about by the Memorandum Governments, to face the dismantling of Education by the uneducated SYRIZA-ANEL Government.
ELLINIKI LYSI clearly defines through its proposals what kind of Education we want and how we can restore knowledge and learning to Greek children.
He stresses that without solving the problems of the economy, it is not easy to improve education, as is the case with all other public sectors.
Also that education, both secondary and higher education, must be linked to the professional careers of young people, so that it contributes to the economic development of the country.
Our proposals promote the student's Spirit and Personality, while at the same time highlighting his/her abilities, skills, tendencies and talents.
Our Proposals focus on the following changes: 1. Establishment of a Bipartisan Committee to draw up a 12-year education programme, which will be strictly implemented by whichever political or party formation is in power.
The main objective of this Commission will be to establish a Body of Changes and Reforms aimed at reconstituting and upgrading education.
To this end, Specialists (such as linguists) will also be invited to participate in the Committee to contribute their expertise to the work of the Commission.
2.  The changes should start in the first grade with the introduction of Ancient Greek in illustrated books, so that the student can immediately become familiar with the language of our ancestors.
Our priority is the famous Greek-centred learning-cultural method of learning, which is based on a National Plan for the Reform of Education at all levels and which in essence could be further promoted by means of selected Greek scientists of education and education science.
We believe that the reintroduction of the teaching of Ancient Greek is the beginning of the implementation of this National Plan we have drawn up for Education.
Specifically, in addition to the Ancient Greek Language, the conditions should be created for students to participate in certain examinations, which will reveal the level of knowledge possession of each student and not the level of memorization.
The exams should have simple, but critical questions, so that the student's level of knowledge can be assessed and will start from the 4th grade.
These examinations will be given in all classes of the Gymnasium and Lyceum.
In this process, teachers have a crucial role to play in identifying which students have very high potential and which students have low learning potential, and in directing weak students to manual specialisations in time to make use of their abilities.
3.  Reopening of the Textbook Publishing Organisation (OEDB), which was abolished on the unfounded excuse that it cost the Greek State a lot of money!
All textbooks of all 3 levels will be checked and, where necessary, rewritten from scratch, so that there is no distortion of history, inaccuracies and the cultivation of anti-Hellenic sentiments anywhere in the curriculum.
4.  Student work will be done in the classroom and not at home.
The reduction or even elimination of tutorial education is a basic prerequisite for a properly structured and functioning school and this is our goal.
5.  Incorporating the course of vocational guidance from primary school, so that the child, from an early age, can understand and cultivate his or her skills, talents and innate aptitude.
6.  Reduction of the number of students per class with a maximum of 20 students from the first grade to the third grade in all schools in the Territory.
7. Establishment of a system of Evaluation and Monitoring of Teachers and organization of educational seminars to upgrade their level, especially for teachers who have been in the classrooms for more than 15 years, in order to inform them on the new teaching methods.
8. Inclusion in the curriculum of courses exploring the artistic inclinations of students, with a view to identifying talents in painting, sculpture, poetry, singing, musical instruments, etc.
9. Reducing the number of students per class in high school and limiting them to a maximum of 15 students per class.
In this way, it will be easier for the teacher to control the students, there will be fair play and a spirit of teamwork, while at the same time it will be easier for the students to choose the direction they want, since their approach to the teaching staff will be stronger.
10. For the examinations of high school students, there will be a bank of subjects per subject, with judgment rather than memorization questions, to which the teaching teachers will submit their suggestions 3 months before the examinations.
11. The evaluation of these subjects will be done by a Committee of the Ministry of Education and its main criterion will be QUALITATIVE grading of the subjects and NOT QUANTITATIVE. It is also necessary to reconstruct the Timetable of Education.
12. Creation of proper education spaces with the appropriate materials (books, blackboards, etc.), but also with all the necessary means to make education comfortable and pleasant for the students (i.e. to have heaters or air conditioners, sufficient desks and chairs, sports areas with appropriate instruments, etc.).
13.  Use of new technologies in education (e.g. use of interactive whiteboards)
14.  Education for us IS NOT CLASSIC but belongs to all Greek children.
Access to education in remote villages or small islands in our Seas is our first concern by staffing them with the necessary educational personnel.
15.  The reintroduction of our National and Religious Symbols in Schools (such as the Flag, Morning Prayer, Icons, etc.) is our FIRST priority!!!
Those students of other religions or Greek children who do not wish to participate in morning prayer will simply not participate, but they do not have the right to force other Orthodox Greek children to do what our ancestors have been doing for centuries.
That is, to respect our National Symbols and to believe in our Christian Orthodox Religion.
In addition, the Religious Education course will be reintroduced into the timetable as a compulsory subject (of course, students belonging to other religions will have the possibility to be exempted from the course if they wish).
In fact, it is proposed to increase the number of hours of the course from 2 to 4 per week.
The French scholar Lakarier said that: "The Greek in orthodoxy feels at home".
Hellenism and Orthodoxy are interconnected parts in the New Greek State and cannot be separated, because by abolishing one, the other is automatically abolished!
We believe in Greece and in Orthodoxy and ELLINIKI LYSI will support them in every possible way!
For the above to succeed and be implemented, two basic conditions are required:
Α. Political Leadership that has EDUCATION and NATIONAL CONSCIENCE.
Therefore, the respective Ministers and Deputy Ministers of Education & Religious Affairs should be Greek Citizens with the aforementioned characteristics.
Β. To show confidence in the educational staff (kindergarten teachers, teachers, professors), not with populism and crowns, but by ensuring the ideal conditions for them to pass on their knowledge to Greek children and with salaries that will not lead them to impoverishment.
17.  Use of computers in secondary schools and high schools in all subjects.
Promote cooperative learning and simulation, especially in subjects such as History and Ancient Greek Literature, so that the humanities regain the student's interest.
18.  Writing new books - textbooks based on the needs of the taught student per class.
Our aim is to restore the current disproportionate degree of difficulty in the pronunciation of speech and the structure of the teaching units, especially in high school textbooks.
We eliminate fragmented material and make extensive use of illustrations and revision exercises at the end of each chapter to fully understand the messages contained therein.
19.  Assessing students quarterly rather than quarterly.
In this way, we can inform parents about the progress of the students more often, but mainly parents are informed about their children's behaviour in school.
We minimise the likelihood of incidents of bullying, while strengthening the School - Family - Society model.
20.  Changing the perception of the management of Educational Time in all those involved in education.
In education today, time is used by administrators to quantify and measure the work of trainees.
The time per pupil has become a marketable commodity, i.e. it is traded as a commodity and is subject to management, like coaching (tutorials).
In this process, pedagogical and social relations are transformed from claims of educational functions to commodity functions.
Education is presented as a consumer good that is traded in exchange for a specific price for a specific time.
It is time bought or sold for a specific experience or process or outcome.
Thus, the educational service is proposed as an object - a matter of time allocated.
The programmes and school subjects themselves become divisible and measurable in terms of units of time.
Such a perception, when promoted and premiumised by the exercise of educational policy, results in education being in an estranged relationship with learning.
We are changing this perception and presenting a Strategic Plan for the Complete Reform of the Teaching Time at all levels of education.
21.  Evaluation of teachers at the school unit level.
At the same time, we are adopting a process of evaluation AND the Teachers' Association at the District level based on, among other things, the increasing trend of student scores compared to other schools in the district.
22.  We are adopting a new Instructional Unit Program.
The programming of educational units will define their objectives and the definitions of the methods, ways and scientific approaches to their educational work.
An attempt will be made to have objective internal and external objectives for educational units by level of education.
Programming in each educational unit will be strategic and operational in nature, and can operate in a protective, coordinating and sometimes defensive or offensive way, in the context of dynamic and effective coordinated collective initiatives.
It is known that strategic planning in Greek educational units is usually directly influenced by the centralised nature of the current Greek educational system.
The planning that will be observed in the educational units of the cultural educational planning adopted by ELLINIKI LYSI will be based on the following stages:Setting goals.Developing alternatives.Investigating conditions.Evaluating alternatives.Selecting the most appropriate solution.Formulating individual plans.Implementing the plans.
23.  We adopt new Culture in Education and implement a new System of Human Resource Management of Educational Units.
Proper management of human resources implies studying the culture of the entire educational organisation in which they work or study.
Culture directly influences the attitudes of teachers and students and their performance.
The culture is influenced by members of the school community, but also by the wider community.
The principal must recognize the characteristics of the institution's educational culture, study their origins and respectfully evaluate them before making interventions.
The manager, with the right manipulations, can overturn an unworkable culture or even create a climate of creativity and progress.
Recruitment is a very important aspect of human resource management.
In addition to the knowledge and application of the relevant legislation, it is advisable to follow the procedures for drafting job descriptions and individual characteristics, which in fact "refine" the position.
It is in the interest of both the candidate and the participants in the process that those involved in setting the recruitment criteria are the people who will work with or supervise the candidate.
The Director is of course an integral member of this team.
Studying and judging applications, interpreting recommendations and conducting the interview require particular technical skills and qualifications.
The manager selects the people who are capable of carrying out this process.
The reception and initial support of a teaching candidate is a continuation of the selection process.
The support phase can last from a few days to a few months.
The ultimate goal is its integrated integration into the educational units of the institution.
At the reception, the new teacher is shown around the premises of the educational unit, gets acquainted with the teaching and other staff, the trainees, and is given information that will help him/her to understand and properly implement the various functions of the educational unit.
It confirms the requirements that the organisation has of him.
He is provided with assistance and support in order to carry out his educational function.
The framework of actions is activated, to the point where he understands that his presence is appreciated.
It feels that it is a genuine subset and institutional member of the educational community of the institution's unit.
Little by little, the educational environment becomes clearer and clearer to him and he adopts the objectives of the educational organisation in general, so that he can set his own application objectives.
The consequence of the above is a better understanding of the philosophy and cultural background of the educational and working environment, as well as its gradual integration and adaptation to the general environment of the educational unit of the institution.
The recruitment, reception and initial support procedures apply to non-teaching staff as well.
There is variation in terms of size, since it is logical for teachers to have many more such processes in terms of quality, especially when they are related to their own specialisation.
The trainees are the controversial part.
Everything is done for them in order to produce the best possible educational outcome.
The training of teachers in pedagogical psychology and teaching methodology is necessary in order to meet the respective needs of the trainees.
In the educational units of the institution, great emphasis will be placed where the educational system highlights a weakness and which is related to meeting the educational needs of the trainees.
It is academically well known that when it comes to higher education or adult education, the key to achieving educational outcomes lies in the design of the curriculum.
This should be based on the basic principles of adult education and appropriate teacher training.
With regard to underage learners, apart from the need to have an attractive building with the appropriate infrastructure and facilities, all the necessary measures of an organisational, practical and effective framework will be taken.
The organization of cultural, historical, sporting, artistic, anthropocentric and social activities, the applied education of theatre, rhetorical, dialectical argumentative contests, etc. will be conscious actions of the students and will be a response to their interests.
The aforementioned actions will take place in the premises of the educational unit, but outside normal working hours, and with the maximum possible support and active involvement of the teachers' association of the educational unit, the parents' and guardians' group and the local and wider community.
The contribution of the above-mentioned will be crucial to the achievement of the actions outlined above.
The normative framework of the cultural actions of the educational unit will also play a positive and organizational role in the preceding activities, where it will prioritize data, actions and roles in order to avoid difficulties, but also to achieve the correct performance and outcome of all the actions that must be carried out.
In this context there will be an enhanced role for positions and reports on decision-making initiatives and students in order to achieve more positive results.
The added benefit of such actions is that they usually work much more favourably for the entire student population, who may have more specific needs due to family, cultural, psychosocial or other particularities, as well as any other problems.
Appropriate support as a sector will exist in all educational units of the institution.
There will also be a fortnightly full briefing of teachers on issues related to these cases, so that they are properly informed and sensitised.
Moreover, this mandatory attitude of teachers towards pupils in need of support is also provided for in the institutional framework of rules of operation and conduct of all teachers working in educational units.
24. We adopt a new procedure for the training of employed educational officials.
The training of teachers in educational establishments is imperative.
It is directly linked to the 'teacher's profession', to his/her basic education, to the exercise of the school's work, to the accidental changes that occur in an educational system and to his/her extended cultural and social activities outside the school.
All these parameters link in dynamic and complex terms the professional and personal development of a teacher who will work in educational units.
"Teacher training" for educational units is a strategic institutional action for the scientific support of teachers, in the context of the principles embraced by the philosophy of our National Plan for Education, for lifelong education and education for education.
It is also a necessity for the institutional functioning of the institution's educational organisations and arises under various conditions of continuous social, political, technological and economic changes, which by implication correspond to educational changes.
The given necessity of further education refers to a corresponding definition of multiple purposes and forms of further education, which are closely intertwined both with the needs of the programmes, the trainees, the educational units of the institution, which will be open to crisis and change, and with the pedagogical and didactic forms of intervention they will develop in them.
It should be noted that the training will be carried out with a view to promoting a philosophy of a school with cultural pedagogy and school innovation, with school success, social justice, equality, respect for the other, acceptance, solidarity, education and constructive criticism as its premises.
These are the basic principles of the Greek-centred education of our National Plan for Education.
Teacher training is therefore at the core of our overall education policy.
The training needs of teachers and the needs of the educational system, in order to be effectively met, require systematic processes of dissemination and transfer of new knowledge, in combination with the observed changes in the educational system.
To this end, we are establishing a Training Centre, which will organise institutionally and systematically in cooperation with the Hellenic Open University an organised network of institutions and forms of training,
with the primary purpose of supporting the scientific and professional development of the educational function.
Training is an activity and a process in which one is involved at a personal - individual level (self-training), or at a collective - mass level.
For this reason, we are bringing the whole process under a new institutional body that will direct actions and actions.
The educational methods of the Open University convince that open distance education can contribute decisively to the effort for continuous education and training of teachers.
If the teachers were to join, in order to be trained in some special programmes of the Hellenic Open University schools, the problems could be solved relatively easily, following the following stages
: Informing the participating teachers on how the Open University works and especially on its basic tool, the open distance education.
Stage 2: Sending the appropriate material adapted to the requirements of the due process.
The trainees - teachers should be sent printed material including: books, aids, articles from magazines, but also audio-visual material (special training programmes).
An Open University tutor will be appointed to assist and coordinate the team during the course.
Each student teacher-trainee will study the material at home, will contact the teacher-counsellor for any problems that may arise, will use the telephone, post, fax, e-mail as a means of communication and will send him/her the assignments set per quarter.
Any counselling meetings will take place within the educational unit.
At the end of the year-long course, student teachers will take a written final examination based on all the material they have been given.
Thus, we bypass problems that are usually encountered in the teacher training process, such as:
The impossibility of training due to the geographical distribution of our country (islands, remote villages, etc.).
Daily school work and proper preparation at home that prevents physical presence in a classroom or moving to another place.
The high cost of training for the State, since it is necessary to replace those being trained with substitutes for the operation of the schools.
The need for physical and constant presence of the teacher in the classroom, so as not to be cut off from the educational process.
The little room that existed, so that the teacher could choose the subject on which he or she wanted to be trained, since there are very few programmes every year and even for certain specialities.
The fact that, the compulsory examinations in conventional universities to attend a postgraduate course usually create a lot of problems for many teachers, due to the fact that they have finished their studies many years ago.
The introduction of new courses, the creation of new curricula, the writing of new books and the production of educational software increase the demands of modern teaching practice.
The training of our teachers at all levels is our main priority, in order to ensure that Greek children have the appropriate level of knowledge and critical thinking skills needed to become thinking citizens!
We want Greek citizens who think and are able to participate in the processes concerning the future of our children and our country.
For the HELLENIC SOLUTION it is imperative that the Hellenic Education be radically reorganized, because only in this way can the continuity of Hellenism and our Orthodoxy be ensured!
PROGRAMMATIC POSITIONS OF THE "GREEK SOLUTION" FOR PRIVATE EDUCATION
Private education in universities is a key issue for Greece, which needs to generate wealth from all sectors of its economy in order to grow - noting that in 2016/17, around 10,000 Greeks were studying in the UK, while more than 2,000 teachers were employed.
Tuition fees alone are €7.0 to €10,000 per year, while accommodation costs around €18.0 plus travel expenses.
This means that foreign exchange of €280 million is exported for UK students alone, and of course the amount is much higher if we add all the other countries.
On the other hand, if Greece had private universities, it would not only save the foreign exchange that goes abroad, but it would also receive more from foreign students studying here.
Besides, it would support investment, create new jobs, increase GDP and therefore public revenues.
Besides, there would be competition with the public universities, which would have a positive effect on improving their quality.
Therefore, one cannot be opposed to their institutionalisation.
Now in the example of Cyprus, until a few years ago the choices in the field of education were two.
The children of wealthy and good families studied in England and America, while the children of middle-income families studied in Greece.
It took several years for the private college, which evolved into a private university, to become operational.
Today, the higher education sector in the Republic of Cyprus contributes approximately 4.8% of the country's GDP (almost €1 billion), as well as 2.6% of total jobs in the economy.
The total number of students increased from about 25,000 in 2007-8 to almost 45,000 in 2016-7.
Of these, 47% were international students, with the majority (64%) from Greece, about a third (35%) from various non-European countries and 2% from various European Union countries.
In 2016 alone, it is estimated that higher education contributed between €739 million and €979 million to the local economy, while employing around 9,500 people in the sector and other supporting industries.
The sector's annual contribution can show a further increase of 50% and create 1,500 new jobs.
If Greece were to achieve the same numbers, then higher education would contribute 8.64 billion € to GDP (thus 2.59 billion € to public tax revenues) and over 100,000 jobs - thus solving many of our economy's problems.
Continuing, the first state university (University of Cyprus) set the bar high from the beginning, resulting in competition with high standards overseen by the Ministry of Education.
However, Greece's refusal to allow private universities to operate freely, as in Cyprus, has not increased the quality of education.
As a result, many Greeks who have not passed in state universities, seek studies in the neighbouring country, thus increasing the family budget (tuition fees, rents and so on).
The current champions in attracting foreign students to their universities are the USA and the UK, followed by China, Germany, France, Cyprus, etc.
The table below shows the ranking of countries in terms of the number of foreign students they attract to their universities.
Further, the economic benefits of investing in the export of higher education services are the payment of tuition fees by students, the payment of living expenses, the creation of new jobs for teaching and administrative staff, the development of the real estate market, educational tourism for the students themselves, their relatives and friends, as well as government revenue from the tax imposed.
The example of Cyprus
On 29 July 2005, Cyprus allowed the establishment of private universities, while three public universities operate: (1) the University of Cyprus, based in Nicosia, (2) the Cyprus University of Technology, oriented towards applied research and based in Limassol, and (3) the Open University of Cyprus, which operates exclusively in distance education.
To date, five private universities have been established, officially registered in the Register of Universities of the Ministry of Education of Cyprus: (1) European University Cyprus in Nicosia, (2) Frederick University operating in Nicosia and Limassol, (3) the University of Nicosia, (4) the University of Neapolis Paphos and (5) the University of Central Lancashire-Cyprus in Larnaca.
Cypriot private universities offer a wide variety of undergraduate and postgraduate programmes in Greek and English.
There are more than 120 different study programmes at undergraduate level and 92 at postgraduate level, many of which are also offered through the Distance Learning system.
Thus Cyprus became an educational destination for thousands of foreign students.
In just the first two years of private universities, foreign students increased by about 80%.
Today, the number of foreign students living in Cyprus and distance learners in its universities exceeds 12,000.
They constitute about 33% of all students in Cypriot universities.
Furthermore, the number of Cypriot students attending foreign universities decreased by 15%, while the number of Cypriots attending Cypriot universities increased by more than 50%.
The benefits for Cyprus are great, in terms of new jobs (9,500), tuition fee revenues that exceed €35 million, student consumption expenditure of €60 million and €125 million saved by Cypriot students staying in Cyprus.
A survey carried out in cooperation with nine Cypriot universities and research institutions shows that these institutions can contribute much more to the country's GDP.
Finally, the market of "distance learning" presents a significant opportunity for Cyprus, as it is estimated to reach approximately €1 billion - €4 billion, for which Cyprus will compete with English-speaking countries such as Australia, Singapore, Ireland etc. (the market for international, English-speaking higher education students is estimated to be around €50 billion and growing by 5% per year).
WE ARE DIFFERENT FROM THE OTHERS AND WE PROVE IT IN PRACTICE WITH OUR GOVERNANCE PROGRAM OUR COMPASS IS THE NATIONAL INTEREST!!!!
