farmer - breeder, In recent years you have gained new experience with the capitalist economic crisis, of which you are also a victim, although you are not to blame, nor did you create it.
You work night and day, but you are in debt because:The multinationals sell you expensive agricultural supplies only if you pay here and now
ATE with its usurious interest rates demands that you pay here and now two and three times the capital you borrowed.
Commercial industrialists and middlemen extort and buy your production below the cost of production, without paying here and now.
Instead the workers pay dearly for the products of your stolen labour.
They are supported by the EU and the parties of capital ND-PASOK-LAOS-Kamenos-Bakoyannis.
No confidence in SYRIZA either, he is making a fool of himself.
It supports the EU and the CAP that bankrupt and destroy you.
NOW YOU KNOW that the governments of PASOK and ND have led you into poverty and misery.
They imposed on you unbearable taxes for the house, the ELGA, the OGA, the drilling, the PPC, etc., constantly increasing the cost of production and reducing the prices at which they buy your products.
You pay without ensuring compensation to your production.
They are reducing and in many cases cutting OGA pensions, while after the elections there will be wild taxation, forcing poor farmers to keep accounting books, as well as taxing farmland.
They are drastically reducing your subsidies with the new EU CAP 2014-2020, they are subsidizing you not to farm, not to produce.
PASOK and ND cut 60 million euros from the compensatory allowance to farmers in "Memorandum 2", but they continue to mock you by promising to give it back if you vote for them!
NOW YOU KNOW that the KKE was telling you the truth about the CAP, the EU, EMU and the euro, the crisis and the memoranda.
The parties of the "euro-road" have been telling you that you will live better with the Common Agricultural Policy, which has wiped out hundreds of thousands of rural households, wiped out beet and tobacco crops, followed by cotton and many others, by importing products that we can produce.
Today, the fields are grassing, there is no cash to buy inputs and supplies and to continue cultivation, but 130 billion euros have been given to the banks.
ÀThey charge 5€ in health centres to prescribe even the cheapest medicines,
will you believe them? Will you vote for them? Will you dig your own hole?
NOW YOU KNOW! They are asking for your vote to continue their even harsher anti-farming policies, destroying small and a large part of middle farmers, to concentrate production to businessmen-big farmers//|.
No bourgeois government or coalition in the guise of "memorandum" or "anti-memorandum" parties, "right-wing" or "left-wing", will provide solutions to the problems.
Therefore, the weaker such parties come out, the better for you.
Don't wait for "saviours", take the case for your rights into your own hands.
Together with the working class against the same exploiter and his parties.
What you have won is due to hard struggles and multi-day blockades, no one gave it to you.
You have tasted slander, terrorism and thousands of agrarian courts to bend you, from the parties that today ask for votes to "save" you.
STRONG KKE means that from better positions the poor and middle class peasants will organise themselves and fight back against the new storm of anti-people's measures they have decided.
Greece can have a rich agricultural, livestock and fisheries production capable of feeding its entire population and developing relations and exports of Greek products on an equal basis with other countries of the world.
STRONG KKE to open the way for People's Power and the economy with an exit from the EU, unilateral cancellation of the debt.
Socialisation of the basic means of production and land, with central planning and popular control.
This will cover the needs of our people with cheap and quality products, with cooperativization of production and cooperatives of small and medium farmers, reducing production costs, ensuring a satisfactory income to farmers and livestock farmers, without the stress of disposing of production and unpaid products. In this way we fight unemployment, we fight for popular prosperity.
Workers in Trade and Services
We who sign this call, members and friends of the KKE, elected representatives of thousands of workers in the trade unions of our sector with the positions of PAME, call on you to give all your strength for the decisive strengthening of the KKE.
We have the courage and the right to look you in the eye and ask for your vote in the elections because all of us have resisted every anti-labour measure for years now, without any compromise, retreat, compromise with employers and governments.
We contributed decisively to winning conquests.
In resistance so that all our conquests are not taken away.
Because our party does not lie, does not mock, does not feed rabbits with stones, it was justified in what it said.
He doesn't walk in two boats.
We invite you to decide by judging each political force on the basis of your experience.
ÀThese days, on the eve of the elections, the forces of SYN-SYRIZA and PASOK, which form the majority in the Federation of Private Employees of Greece, are discussing with the employers how much we will lose and are preparing to sign an agreement with the big merchants.
It is an obscene lie to claim that a wage cut will prevent redundancies, unemployment and flexible temporary work.
It is a fraud that there is a happy medium that satisfies workers and big business.
The only beneficiaries of such a contract would be the monopolistic groups in the trade sector.
They have their backs to implement in practice the barbaric measures of the memoranda that the government, the EU and the plutocracy have agreed upon.
It is precisely these forces that call on the KKE to put water in its wine and to compromise with the forces of SYN-SYRIZA in a blurred ostensibly anti-memorandum front, i.e. to submit to a cooperation in which the KKE accepts that the workers and the monopolies "have common interests".
In a partnership that will bargain how much the workers will lose.
This is where the view that says "unity of the left forces" leads.
Such cooperation would be very much appreciated by employers.
But it is not an alliance for the workers.
It will be disastrous for the people's movement.
We call on you to unite with the KKE to change things.  It is the only party that clearly positions itself on the central political problem of the monopolies or the people.
He doesn't walk in two boats.
They are with the people.
THE KKKE IS NOT GOING TO SELL YOU OUT TO GET MINISTRIES THE PROPOSAL FOR AN "ANTI-MEMORANDUM GOVERNMENT" IS A FRAUD!
Do not tolerate being terrorized with threats and blackmail by PASOK, ND and the EU, or being mocked by the so-called anti-memorandum parties, "left" and "right".
SYRIZA, Kamenos' party and other "anti-memoronists" are mocking you when they tell you that there is a solution for the people within the European Union, as long as they become the government.
It is a lie that such a government will make you breathe.
The barbaric measures that have brought poverty have the Maastricht stamp that all of them have voted for.
The same measures are applied in all EU countries, with or without memoranda.
All these people will not take back any unpopular measures.
The wages of misery, the working middle class, the gouge and the unbearable taxation, apart from the EU and the Troika, are demanded first of all by the Greek plutocracy.
The so-called anti-memorandum parties do not want to clash with it. So how will they take pro-people measures?
It is a mockery that they will change or cancel the loan agreement by negotiating within the EU.
They hide the fact that its overthrow can only be achieved by disengaging from the European Union, whereas they do not want that to happen.
Their claim that Germany, France and the other powerful countries will not kick Greece out of the eurozone and the EU because they will suffer great losses is untenable.
It's barely a scenario that is being seriously considered.
Like PASOK and ND, the so-called anti-memorandum parties are hiding from the people that the crisis in the eurozone is deepening, that the contradictions in the EU are intensifying.
Sooner or later, the eurozone and the EU will break up, they will kick out countries like Greece.
The KKE is right to tell the people that the sooner they can, on their own initiative, disengage the country from the EU, the better it will be for them, and only then will we be able to move on to the other, pro-popular path of development.
It is an invention that the EU will change if the socialist Hollande is elected in France.
The reactionary structure of the EU was built by conservatives and social democrats together with the support of the "Euroleft".
The fierce quarrels of governments are about defending the interests of their own monopolies alone.
Remember all their predecessors!
The KKE told the truth about the EU wolf alliance from the beginning and it was confirmed.
They are not telling the truth about the crisis.
The crisis is generated by capitalism, the accumulation of profits by capital.
Within the framework of the system, the crisis can only be dealt with by poverty for the workers, the displacement of the small and medium-sized enterprises, the closure of enterprises that lose in competition and state bankruptcy.
Only outside the framework of the system, with other, working-people's power, can a definitive end be put to the crises and unemployment.
It is a myth that there is capitalist development which, they say, is in the interests of the people.
Capitalist development always aims at the high profitability and competitiveness of capital, which is why it brings suffering to the workers, to the small and medium-sized professionals, to the poor small farmers.
There can be no return to the decades after World War II when European capitalism had room for concessions and there was a strong counterweight, the socialist system in Europe.
No "anti-memorandum" government will redistribute wealth in favour of the people, while the monopoly enterprises will remain in the hands of the capitalists.
It is a lie that they will make money by hitting tax evasion or taxing the rich, when the huge profits of business conglomerates are legally tax-exempt and their revenues are justified in the costs of their businesses.
These "anti-monetary" parties would immediately "fold" them, because they don't want to clash with the monopolies.
It is a trap that the participation of the KKE in an "anti-memorandum government" would supposedly put pressure on the other insolvent parties to do pro-people's work.
With opportunists and adventurers, you can only make commitments that tie your hands, since the real power lies with those who own the businesses.
If the KKE ceases to participate, it will be blamed for the "dissolution of the government".
If he stays, he will become "an accomplice in the execution of people's rights".
Wherever there has been a left or centre-left government with the participation of communist parties, as in Italy, France and elsewhere, the result has been the same.
They continued the unpopular policy, they disappointed the workers, and as a result they brought Sarkozy and Berlusconi into government.
Don't make the mistake of choosing which government will condemn you to misery.
The only immediate and realistic solution for the benefit of the people is the strengthening of the KKE, in order to direct the struggle of the working class, of the people, towards the conquest of workers' and people's power.
The KKE will not sell you out, it will not lie to get your vote.
A way out and development for the benefit of the people can only be achieved through disengagement from the EU, socialisation of the monopolies and unilateral cancellation of the debt with workers' popular power.
This means: The working class and the popular strata to become the real masters of the country and of the wealth they produce, by taking power away from the industrialists, the bankers, the shipowners, the big merchants, by electing representatives for the organs of people's power from the workplaces, who will have no privileges and will be immediately recallable.
Now make the KKE strong even if you don't agree with it on everything.
That's how you will condemn the barbaric measures they have taken, that's how you will fight from a better position against the worse they bring.
This is also the answer to the election fireworks of the "right" and the "left".
That's how you deal with the new storm that's coming.
This is how you give impetus to the popular alliance and counterattack to repulse and overthrow the anti-people's policy.
DEEP CONFIDENCE IN THE KKE
Anti-communism and terrorism have always been ashes in the eyes to disorient and crush the people.
In the run-up to the elections, ND, PASOK, LAOS, the EU and various mechanisms are intensifying ideological terrorism and anti-communism.
Blackmail dilemmas come and go.
They want to come out as strong as possible, so that after the elections they can bring a new storm of unpopular measures and even with the "approval" of the people!
Don't let them flatten you and steal your vote again.
It decisively strengthened the KKE.
All your life you are blackmailed with terrorist dilemmas: The older ones remember 1974: "Karamanlis or tanks"! In 1981: "PASOK or dry land"! Then: "Self-reliance or chaos"! And at the same time: Sacrifices to enter the EURO, sacrifices for convergence, sacrifices to stay in the EURO.
A constant blackmail for the workers to assist with their sweat and blood a parasitic and exploitative system.
And now new false dilemmas: "Either you vote for PASOK and ND and others who will implement the measures of the memorandum or else we will go bankrupt". Where are they saying this?
To the people who have already been led into bankruptcy? Or to the 1,000,000 unemployed, to the workers on starvation wages, to the hundreds of thousands of other impoverished people?
They shamelessly pretend that they care and look after the interests of the people.
Bankruptcy is brought by the capitalist path of growth, the crisis and the contradictions that plague the EU wolf alliance.
It is not the people's responsibility if the state has high interest rates, if it pays them on time or not, if it pays its suppliers in hospitals, its obligations to the social security funds, if businesses close down, if oil imports are restricted.
The people just... pay!
Think: In 2009 the debt was EUR 298 billion. By 2015 we will have paid 100 billion and the debt will have gone to EUR 400 billion!
You and your children will starve with both the euro and the drachma if the power of the monopolies is not overthrown.
They present their own deadlocks as the dilemmas of the people.
Don't put up with being mocked with the usual "either self-reliance or ungovernability".
Do not be frightened by unstable bourgeois governments.
Capital will build its own government, as it did with the coalition.
They are already preparing it again.  Vote against them! The weaker they are, the stronger the people.  A strong KKE will be an important step for the people.
Otherwise, a new tragedy will come at his expense.
Those who blackmail you, slander the KKE and deliberately distort its proposals.
It is one thing to criticise our positions in a clear and straightforward manner, but it is another to distort and slander.
What they want to prevent is the strengthening of the KKE, popular emancipation and organisation.
Because that's the only thing that can ruin their plans.
They are hitting the KKE because it has a proposal that strikes at the heart of bourgeois power and the monopolies.
They are annoyed because the KKE is not a party of the system.
They provoke with their anti-communist propaganda about "black and red fascism", by pointing out that democracy is in danger.
They want to save the terrorist power of the monopolies.
They hide the fact that fascism is the whip of capital on the back of the worker, the child of the system, the defender of the monopolies.
When the bourgeoisie cannot hold the people captive through the parliament, it chooses the fascist version of exercising its power.
Fascism was indeed the product of a deep capitalist economic crisis that shook the bourgeois parties, but their challenge by the working and popular majority was trapped in the false social-democratic promises of socialisation and benefits without any intention of confronting the monopolies.
This betrayal of the working masses by leftists and social democrats, which bred fascism in Germany in the 1930s, do not allow it to be repeated by falling into the net of intimidation and anti-communism.
After the provocations against the KKE, such as the one about the "German", now new lies:Samaras, who attributes to the KKE the closure of businesses and the hit to tourism.
Pangalos, who, while he knows well which mechanisms and why they create the arsons, as in Marfin, slanders and provokes the KKE and the labour movement, together with the provocateur Karatzaferis and the businesswoman Bakoyannis, with proven lies.
They seek to damage the moral prestige of the KKE and make it appear rotten, as the parties of the plutocracy are.
They attack by shouting "civil war".
They are just afraid that the people will rise up against the monopolies and their power and sweep their political staff along with them.
And what you have yet to hear until the elections...
The KKE calls on the people to vigorously repel blackmail, terrorism and anti-communism.
To rally with the KKE, with his vote to say a big YES only to the KKE.
out of the eu with people's power and unilateral cancellation of debt - socialisation of the means of production - strong keke !
THE UNEMPLOYED AND THEIR FAMILIESUnemployed, unemployed, you know better than anyone else that the right of each and every person to work and live decently is being trampled on in the most brutal way.
In Greece alone, the number of officially unemployed has exceeded 1,000,000.
To the army of the unemployed are added thousands of devastated popular families of self-employed and small and medium-sized farmers, while hundreds of thousands more are candidates for unemployment.
Every family lives in insecurity, with anxiety about the future of their children.
Across the EU, official unemployment has reached 17.000.000!
This is the EU of prosperity!
They lie that they are struggling to reduce unemployment, that they are hurting for the unemployed.
Unemployment will grow and will be used to constantly cut wages and salaries.
The only "solution" they have is part-time employment.
Punish the people in charge who treat you like expendable material and throw you to the sidelines: PASOK and ND, the EU and the IMF, the local bourgeoisie, expressed by the Industrialists' Association, the Union of Stockholders, the Bankers' Association and the other associations of capital.
Make indignation a real weapon against your enemies.
NOW VOTE FOR KEKE!
The economic crisis is the result of the over-accumulation of profits of the capitalists who are skinning you.
The crisis exacerbated the unemployment that existed before.
Unemployment is generated by capitalist competition for more profits.
He closes businesses or moves them to where there are cheaper wages.
He throws workers out on the street when companies modernise their equipment.
Capitalists create unemployment, not immigrants.
Competitiveness is served by ND, PASOK, LAOS and the other parties of the "euro-road".
Their tears for the unemployed are crocodile tears.
The capitalist economic crisis is inflating unemployment, but the unemployed have nothing good to expect from any capitalist growth, which will be limited and unstable.
At best, a few thousand jobs will be created with wages of 300 euros and part-time - temporary employment.
The legal tools given to the plutocrats by Memorandum II condemn young people to work for 400 and 200 euros.
This is the direction of the various programmes presented as a solution by PASOK, ND and the parties of the "euro-road".
This is the development they tell the people.
The KKE can look you in the eye, because it has been at the forefront of the struggle for the effective protection of the unemployed.
He has twice tabled a proposal for a law on the unemployed in Parliament.
It calls for a substantial increase in unemployment benefits to cover basic needs for as long as unemployment lasts.
The KKE was the first to propose and fight for the demand for the provision of health care to all unemployed people without conditions.
He tabled a draft law calling for the unemployed to have their debts reduced by 50%, interest to be written off and the remaining part of their loan frozen.
There are all possibilities to eliminate unemployment.
Our country has all the potential for growth that provides jobs for all.
It is absurd to close businesses and wither entire industries because it is in the interest of capital and the EU.
The precondition is that Greece leaves the EU, that the debt is unilaterally cancelled, that capitalist property is socialized.
To conquer workers' power, which, with central planning and workers' control, will utilize all the productive forces of the country, with man and not profits at the centre.
Permanent and stable work for all with full rights and a decent life will be guaranteed.
In the elections, take a big step.
He voted for the KKE.
With the KKE strengthened and electorally reinforced, the organisation and struggle of the working class will continue from better positions, and its counter-attack and alliance with the self-employed and the small and medium peasants will become more impetuous.
The weaker ND and PASOK, the weaker the government that will emerge, the stronger, the stronger you will be, until you overthrow them.
It overtook SYRIZA and the DIMAR, which are on two boats.
They voted for Maastricht, they are pro-EU.
You are fooled that there can be a pro-people's policy without a conflict with the EU and the monopolies.
He blackened the so-called anti-memorandum people.
Blacken the dangerous nationalists, the anti-communist and racist LAOS - Golden Dawn.
Become everyone's nightmare.
Close your ears to the terrorist dilemmas.
Get out of the chaos and destruction of your family.
He voted for JKE.
The knot has come to a head.
A new storm of unpopular measures is coming.
Don't expect the European Union, the New Democracy, PASOK, Kamenos' party, the fascist Golden Dawn, the provocative LAOS and the businesswoman Bakoyannis to feel sorry for you.
Don't be fooled by the opportunism of Syriza and the party of Kouvelis.
They are parties of the system.
They too voted for Maastricht, the "fruits" of which are the memoranda and the loan agreement.
It is time to take a big step forward.
With a strong KKE and an organised people, the way out will be opened.
Give a strong blow to the bourgeois political system, which tries to mislead you with new disguises, with "new" parties, political personnel of capital, in order to build the mosaic of the rotten political system.
The weaker they are, the stronger the people.
With a strong KKE, the worker who suffers the employer's terror, the youth who lives in uncertainty and unemployment, the pensioner who is deprived of medicine, the self-employed person who locks up, the poor farmer who is being wiped out, will be reinvigorated.
The KKE is feared by your enemies, that's why they attack it, that's why the TV channels exclude it.
Don't allow yourself to be bullied.
It condemned anti-communism, slander and provocation.
It rejected the blackmail of the New Democracy, PASOK, their offshoots, the EU and the local plutocracy.
Don't be afraid of them. The people have the power, if only they realize it.
Every step of the people that they corner, they call chaos and destruction.
Damage to the interests of capital is a benefit to the people.
Whether with the euro or with the drachma, as long as the capitalists rule, as long as their power exists, the people cannot be saved.
And to dispose of his flesh, will increase his absolute and relative misery.
And after the elections they will bring a new storm of unpopular measures, whatever government emerges.
The war against the people is not a storm that will pass.
The working class and the popular strata did not create the debt and the deficits.
They do not owe a single euro.
On the contrary, they owe them everything, because the capitalists steal their sweat and the law.
The crisis in the Eurozone will deepen, the rivalries between different capitalist states, different imperialist centres will intensify, so in the struggle of the monopolies for domination the people of Europe will pay much more.
The KKE is the only party that told you many years ago that a capitalist crisis was coming.
Only the KKE has highlighted the real causes of the crisis, when the other parties say that it is a "debt crisis" or that the crisis is due to some corrupt people in the political system.
It is a crisis of the capitalist path of development in Greece, in Spain, in Italy, in Portugal and elsewhere.
There is a pro-popular way of developing Greek society.
If you want to get rid of the Troika, demand disengagement from the EU.
If you want to know social welfare and equality, fight for workers' - people's power.
If you want development by the people for the people, fight for the socialisation of the monopolies.
A pro-people policy cannot be implemented by any so-called "left government", because power will be in the hands of the monopolies, which also have economic power in their hands.
There are no easy solutions.
The road proposed by the KKE to the people has sacrifices, but they lead to the clearing.
And they are less than those that he suffers and will suffer if he does not put an end to them himself.
You are lied to by the parties who claim that all you need is for a "progressive government" to come out of the polls to change your fate.
They mislead the parties that talk about an "anti-establishment" or "anti-memorandum" government.
Real changes, permanent changes in the life of the working class and the poor popular strata are not possible unless the wealth produced by the workers and in the hands of the few becomes people's property.
There are no solutions that favour both the monopolies and the people, in no country have they been implemented.
Wherever centre-left governments were formed, they turned out to be tools of the capitalists to crush workers' rights.
These are dangerous "solutions", the reserves of the monopolies.
His policy was confirmed.
It is the only party that told you during the 2009 election campaign that an unpopular storm is coming whether PASOK or ND becomes the government.
It is the only party that has exposed the character of the EU as a wolf alliance of capital.
The other parties must apologise for deceiving the people that with the EU they would eat with golden spoons, that within the EU would come the convergence of economies and people's incomes, that the EU would become the EU of the people!
Use your experience, you who opposed the memoranda, the politics of the plutocracy.
He voted for JKE.
If more people had done this in 2009, things would be better for the people now.
Workers, who voted for ND and PASOK These parties do not change, you change.
Get past the Kammenos mound.
He's making fun of you.
He is pro-monopoly and pro-EU and pretends to be pro-popular.
Overtake the insolvent SYN/SYRIZA and the DIMAR.
They are fishing in murky waters.
Their policy is "yes, but".
They have no break line with the monopolies.
Vote KKE, even if you don't agree with it on everything.
They can't put it in the hand.À
The knot has come to a head.
It is time to take a big step forward.
With a strong KKE and an organised people, the way out will be opened.
Give a strong blow to the bourgeois political system, which attempts to mislead you with new disguises, with "new" parties.
The weaker the parties responsible for your suffering come out, the stronger the people will be.
Let us not once again waste the vote of the many.
With a strong KKE, the worker who suffers from employer terrorism, the youth who lives in uncertainty and unemployment, the pensioner who is deprived of medicine, the self-employed who is locked out, the poor farmer who is being wiped out, the immigrant and the refugee who fall victim to slave-trade circuits, will be reinvigorated.
Don't allow yourself to be bullied.
It condemned anti-communism, slander and provocation.
It rejected the blackmail of the New Democracy, PASOK, their offshoots, the EU and the local plutocracy.
Don't be afraid of them.
The people have the power, if only they realise it.
Every step that reduces capitalist profit, that squeezes them, they call chaos and destruction.
Damage to the interests of capital is a benefit to the people.
Whether with the euro or with the drachma, as long as the capitalists rule, as long as their power exists, the people cannot be saved.
And to dispose of his flesh, will increase his absolute and relative misery.
The capitalist system has eaten its bread and butter, which is why its political staff is rotten.
It cannot be corrected, it cannot be humanized.
It must be reversed.
This honourable task is borne by the working class and large sections of the small and medium-sized industrialists of the town and village.
They bring a new storm of anti-people's measures, whatever government emerges, independent or coalition, centre-right or centre-left.
There is only one choice for the people: Either overthrow or worse misery.
There is a pro-popular way of developing Greek society.
If you want to get rid of the Troika, demand disengagement from the EU.
If you want to know social welfare and equality, fight for workers' - people's power.
If you want development by the people for the people, fight for the socialisation of the monopolies.
Without you, the gears don't turn, you can be a worker without bosses.
Guided by these objectives, the KKE organizes the daily struggle of the people for their survival and the obstruction of the measures of their destruction.
It is also your personal responsibility! Keep your head up!
Today you have enough experience of the capitalist crisis.
Writing off part of the debt does not mean that the biggest and wildest bankruptcy is avoided.
The KKE is the only party that told you many years ago that a capitalist crisis was coming.
Only the KKE has highlighted the real causes of the crisis, when the other parties say that it is a "debt crisis" or mismanagement or a crisis caused by some corrupt people in the political system.
They conceal that the crisis is the result of the brutal exploitation of the working class by capital, the over-accumulation of capital and commodities, the anarchy of the capitalist mode of production.
It is a crisis of the capitalist path of development in Greece, in Spain, in Italy, in Portugal and elsewhere.
The war against the people is not a storm that will pass.
And when this cycle of capitalist crisis is closed, the attack will be intensified in order to increase the competitiveness of capital, while the recovery of the economy will be anaemic and will soon be followed by a new crisis.
Choosing the lesser evil leads to the greater evil.
Do not constantly discount your requirements, when all the conditions are in place to meet your modern needs.
Most of the people are already bankrupt.
Worse days await you, 19th century conditions, if you don't mess up their plans.
The working class and the popular strata did not create the debt and the deficits.
They do not owe a single euro.
On the contrary, they owe them everything, because the capitalists steal their sweat and the law.
The crisis in the Eurozone will deepen, the rivalries between different capitalist states, different imperialist centres will intensify, so in the struggle of the monopolies for domination the people of Europe will pay much more.
There are no easy solutions.
The road proposed by the KKE to the people has sacrifices, but they lead to the clearing.
And it is less than what he is suffering and will suffer if he does not put an end to it himself.
You are lied to by the parties who claim that all it takes is for a "progressive government" to emerge from the polls to change your fate.
They mislead the parties that talk about an "anti-establishment" or "anti-memorandum" government.
Changes in favour of the working class and the poor popular strata are not possible unless the wealth produced by the working class and in the hands of the few becomes people's property.
There are no solutions that favour both the monopolies and the people, in no country have they been implemented.
Wherever centre-left governments were formed, they turned out to be tools of the capitalists to crush workers' rights.
These are dangerous "solutions", the reserves of the monopolies.
Confidence in the KKE!
He told you the truth.
His policy was confirmed.
It is the only party that told you during the 2009 election campaign that an unpopular storm is coming whether PASOK or ND becomes government.
It is the only party that has exposed the character of the EU as a wolf alliance of capital.
The other parties must apologise for deceiving the people that with the EU they would eat with golden spoons, that within the EU would come the convergence of economies and people's incomes, that the EU would become the EU of the people!
Only the KKE threw the slogan "the plutocracy and not the people should go bankrupt".
Only the KKE links patriotism with the interests of the working class and the popular strata and the overthrow of the power of capital.
The bourgeois do not protect sovereign rights but only their profits.
The KKE underlines that the people sovereign and free is the owner of the means of production with its own power.
Use your experience, you who opposed the memoranda, the politics of the plutocracy.
He voted for JKE. If more people had done so in 2009, things would be better for the people now.
The KKE warns that developments in our region are very likely to lead to a generalised imperialist war for the sharing of oil, gas and spheres of influence.
It prepares the people not to shed their blood for the interests of their demons, local and foreign, but to prepare now for the overthrow of their exploiters.
He voted for JKE.
They can't put it in the hand.
The oppressors of the people are fighting it with rage. They want it in the corner, because it maintains that the law is the right of the worker.
Workers, who voted for ND and PASOK//|You have joined the parties on which you pinned your hopes.  You have been deceived for decades.
They have the same policy.
They proved it both as one-party governments and by participating in the Papademos government.
They wear masks of diversity and supposedly do self-criticism.
They are pretending. They don't change, you change.
Abstention, a white vote or a no vote are rifles in the air.
They prefer them to the vote going to the KKE. We are not all the same. Participate in the elections by voting for the KKE.
Don't scatter your vote "right" and "left".
Give it only to the KKE.
Skip the provocative and nationalist LAOS.
Overtake the insolvent SYN/Syriza and the DIMAR, which are mounds of popular radicalisation.
They are fishing in murky waters.
Their policy is "yes, but".
SYN/SYRIZA and DIMAR are responsible for the "yes" they have said to the EU.
They acknowledge the debt. They have no break line with the monopolies, they are collaborators of the labour traitors in the GSEE and ADEDY.
They seek a partnership with PASOK or parts of it.
Vote KKE, even if you don't agree with it on everything.
Don't vote for the parties that the exploiters of the working class vote for. Turn it upside down.
New, new
Look away! The sure future is to walk the road where power is in the hands of the working people.
Look ahead! To what you deserve and need!
To your right to a stable and permanent job with rights, health and safety, to your right to dream!
Head up!
It is not our destiny to live like this.
Workers produce untold wealth.
We can live without bosses!
The people and the youth with them can build their own power, where they will decide and produce for their own needs and not for the profits of the exploiters!
With a strong KKE and you in the struggle, there is a solution!
The KKE addresses you with confidence. It is time to join your voice with the thousands of young people whose needs and hopes do not fit into the system of barbarism.
With your colleagues, who are drowning in the brutal exploitation, the wages of 400 and 200 euros, the slave shops of part-time work.
With the young unemployed who are denied the right to work by the monopolies and the governments of capital.
With the thousands of young couples struggling to build their own families in extremely difficult circumstances.
With the pupils and students whose families are bleeding to get an education. Who dream of having a job and are given unemployment.
The KKE does not present itself as a saviour, it does not give you easy solutions.
It is fighting to organize your own struggle in every workplace, in every neighborhood.
Organised and determined people are invincible.
The KKE is part of the people and against the monopolies. He never bargained how much you lose.
He did not accept that "realism" is submission.
He said clearly: Bankrupt the plutocracy, which has exploded with profits and is responsible for the crisis, not the people.
The KKE is not "one of the same". They are the same...
... the parties of the "Euro-road", of negotiation, of the power of the monopolies.
It is ND and PASOK who are responsible for starvation wages, for unemployment, for class barriers to education.
Whether with independent or coalition governments, they are preparing a new attack - a real storm - against your rights from the next election onwards.
| SYN/SYRIZA, which is offering easy solutions.
It talks about supposedly pro-people governments within the system of exploitation.
He's delusional, he's insolvent!
It hates the conflict with the power of the monopolies and the wolf alliance of the EU.
Vote for Maastricht, the source of what you are living today.
The PLO, which was in government until yesterday, is a party of provocation, nationalism and anti-communism, against the people and their rights.
The Nazi "Golden Dawn", a descendant of Hitler and Metaxas, supports your exploiters and capitalists, it is a fascist gang, a reserve of the system.
The worker, the new one wants to crush.
The "new" parties are made up of MPs and former ministers who have crushed your rights and your future. Don't let them fool you.
Make a difference! With a strong KKE to make the people and the youth victorious! Punish them!
You're being terrorized...
The people who bankrupted your family are telling you that if we don't vote for them again... we will go bankrupt!©
That if we don't have a strong government... chaos will come!
They are the ones who, with their strong governments, brought about the chaos of unemployment, poverty, deformity and misery!
That if we don't accept to work for starvation wages... we will starve.© That if we leave the EU that crushes people... we will be crushed!©
You terrorize them!
If you want your rage to take hold, vote for the KKE.
Abstention changes nothing.
They don't lose sleep over abstinence.
Before you, many people thought that by abstaining they were punishing those responsible for their problems.
He untied their hands.
They used it to present their policy as a one-way street, which makes your life hell!
Turned out to be an air rifle.
Condemn them, turn your back on their rotten political system that serves the outdated capitalist system.
Any government that emerges after the elections will be weak, struggling to get the new framing measures in place.
To feel the hot breath of the people.
There is only one way for this: a powerful JKE, strength for your struggle and your needs.
To prevent the new storm that is coming, aiming at the disengagement from the EU and the unilateral cancellation of the debt with popular power that will socialize the monopolies.
Fellow miner, miner,
You know all of us who are signing this call for support for the KKE.
There has not been a positive conquest in our industry in the past decades that was won without our decisive action and participation.
There was no negative development that we didn't fight it, that we didn't face it.
There was no decision, no agreement, no law that we did not react inside and outside the factories with strikes, rallies, etc.
Whether we were part of the ranks of the KKE or its friends and supporters, we acted in accordance with its positions and directions.
That was our weapon and our strength.
It was the KKE that warned you in time, its cadres, members and friends who took the lead in organising the struggles and in practice it was the most valuable ally in the struggles of our sector and of the whole working class.
This gives us the right to look you straight in the eye and ask you to vote JKE in the next elections.
Fellow miner, miner,
Now you know, you have experience.
You know that the negative developments in every factory and in the sector as a whole are the result of the choices made by capital, by the PASOK and ND governments.
Now you know from your own experience that things would be different if there were different relations in the factories, in the industry as a whole.
The example of the workers of the Hellenic Steelworks, where their heroic struggle, which has been going on for more than 5 months, is typical.
This struggle, which has moved the entire working class, shows the way of honour, pride and dignity.
This struggle, which teaches us all a lot, is not supported but undermined and negatively influenced by the correlations in the big metal factories and the majority of the WFTU.
It shows which forces are undermining the just struggles and siding with the employers and what exactly needs to change for there to be a future for workers.
That is why the next day needs the strongest possible KKE.
Because we can fight back and win.
You know that without you, the gears don't turn.
The KKE has both the experience and the ability to transform your strength and will into organisation and action, to face decisively the attacks of the employers, the governments, the threats and provocations.
The KKE is the only party that says that the tools that you work with and produce, the factories, must and can become people's property and work exclusively to meet people's needs.
Our country has enormous potential for the development of the metal sector, which can be the engine of a popular economy for the benefit of the people.
These possibilities are either exploited to enrich a handful of capitalists or they are not exploited and are undermined to enrich again a handful of big merchants, the monopolies.
The Perama Zone, the shipyards of Skaramanga, Elefsina, Syros, Chalkida, the factories of the E.A.S. (PyRkal, EVO), ELVO, which are shrinking, are being closed, others such as LARCO are being sold, at the same time that the needs of the people are increasing and are covered (those covered) by imports.
The Aluminium of Greece, the Greek Steelworks, the Steelworks and dozens of other factories that operate exclusively for the profit of their owners, while in the hands of the workers they would have covered up the
problems.You know that the Memorandum did not create the problems, nor did it bring the attack on our conquests.
The memorandum was brought about by the needs and demands of the employers and the unpopular policies of the PASOK, ND and EU governments.
You know that your opponent is not only Merkel or Sarkozy, it is not only the European Union, which even now all the Euro-landers, including those of SYN/SYRIZA, present it as a one-way street and as a misguided baby virgin who can find her own way.
Your opponent, you know, is above all the local cattle.
The big capitalists who are closing factories, laying off workers, cutting wages, threatening, blackmailing, using the anti-labour arsenal that their political staff in Parliament have voted and are voting for, and getting rich off you while you are getting poorer and poorer.
Strike a decisive blow and weaken those who are plundering your life, the life and the future of your children.
Terrorize the terrorists who blackmail and terrorize you.
Hit them where it hurts.
STRENGTHEN THE KEKE - THUS GIVE STRENGTH TO YOUR STRENGTH
1. Papavasiliou Pantelis - President of the Thriasio Metal Trade Union "MASINA "Member of the Board of Directors of the Elefsina Shipyards UnionGeneral Secretary of POMM2. Koutras Thodoris - Member of the Board of Directors of the Union of the Skaramanga Shipyards "TRIAINA" - Vice President of the POMM - Member of PAME3. Kotronis Thanasis - Member of the Board of Directors of the Association of the YMETU Association - Member of the POMM European Union4. Poulikogiannis Sotiris - President of the Piraeus Metalworkers' Union - Member of the POMM European Union5. Katsoulas Ilias - Secretary of the Metal Union of Boeotia - Member of the Board of Directors of POMM6. Kostas Stergios - Secretary of the Metal Trade Union of Magnesia - Member of the Board of Directors of POMM7. Kyriakos Zaroutiadis - President of Patras Metal Union - Member of the Board of Directors of POMM8. Kostas Iliou - Member of the Board of Directors of the Metalworkers' Union of Macedonia - Member of the Board of Directors of POMM9. Kostas Mytiliniou - President of the Athens Metal Union "O PROMITHEAS" - Member of the Board of the Athens Labour Centre10. Politis Panagiotis - President of the Metal Trade Union of Fthiotida - Member of the Board of the Lamia Labour Centre11. Roussas George - President of the Metal Trade Union of Magnesia "M. Paparigas"
12. Zebeltzis Chrysostomos - President of the Metal Trade Union of Larissa 13. Thalassinos Giannis - President of the Metal Trade Union of Evia - Member of the Board of Directors of the Labour Centre of Chalkida14. Siphonios Giorgos - President of the Greek Steel Association of Aspropyrgos "The Enotita "15. Lazarou George - Gen. Secretary of the Greek Steel Industry Association of Aspropyrgos "The Enotita "16. Kondylis Yannis - Member of the Board of Directors of the Boeotia Metal Syndicate - Member of the International Metal (TOI) WCO17. Karakasis Michalis - Member of the Board of Directors of the FULKOR Union - Member of the Board of Directors of the Corinthian Labour Centre18. Papastefanopoulos Thanasis - President of Frigogkolas Union19. Antoniou Akis - General Secretary of the Board of Directors of Pafos Gorgorgos, President of the Association of Greek Gypsies. Secretary of Piraeus Metal Union20. Panagiotopoulos Thanasis - President of the Union of Ship Electricians21. Deligiannis Giannis - President of the Panhellenic Association of Sandblasters22. Zygogiannis Christos - Member of the Board of Directors of EAB Association23. Doulopoulos Akis - Member of the Board of Directors of the Thriasio Metal Union "MASINA" - Member of the Board of Directors of the Elefsina Labour Centre
Self-employed professional, craftsman, small traderIn the past years, you heard a lot about the European Union that could guarantee economic and social progress for the supposedly bright prospect of the country with the euro.
The apologists of the "European one-way street" have proclaimed entrepreneurship and competitiveness as the foundations of "sustainable development".
They promised you European programmes, they advertised the opportunities for SMEs in the single market.
Experience has shown that all this was hollow talk.
The country's accession to the European Union strengthened monopolies in all sectors of the economy, such as supermarkets and department stores that spread throughout the country.
Big business and multinational groups experienced an unprecedented increase in their profitability, facilitated by the plethora of European programmes that were tailor-made for them, as well as by state support through loans, tax exemptions, etc.
This development, which increased competition at the expense of small businesses, was planned.
The much-vaunted funding for small and medium-sized enterprises was reaped by a handful of large and medium-sized enterprises, essentially satellites of the monopolies.
The crumbs that reached small businesses were aimed at "muddying the waters", to elicit the consent and tolerance of the self-employed.
In many cases, they were used to buy the consciences of trade unionists.
This is what they mean by supporting small and medium-sized enterprises, which has nothing to offer to the survival of hundreds of thousands of self-employed people, but is ultimately at their expense.
Today, the apologists of the European Union's policy hypocritically note the large increase in imports, the shrinkage of manufacturing, small crafts, agricultural production, the closure of thousands of small shops.
This, however, was the result of the single market, which served the monopolies' goals of expansion and domination inside and outside the country and, objectively, widened the asymmetry between European countries and sectors of the economy.
This policy, which was co-decided by all the governments in the European Union and implemented by the governments of PASOK and ND, has affected all the popular strata.
Exploitation intensified, people's income decreased, insurance rights were reduced, health care and education were downgraded in favour of big business interests.
Self-employed people were subjected to unbearable tax burdens, the "objective criteria", "relevance", "unaudited uses", and municipal taxes were increased.
These governments have legislated the liberalisation of shop opening hours, the liberalisation of the professions, they seek to remove every obstacle to the movement of big capital.
This policy had a negative impact on the self-employed, the wage became more difficult, working hours increased, income was reduced.
The reserves of the OAEE were plundered, they financed the growth of big capital and what was left was "mowed down" with the recent measures, state funding was reduced.
The fund is on the verge of bankruptcy, it is granting starvation pensions.
Today, the country is in a deep and prolonged economic crisis, which is a continuation and consequence of the previous capitalist development.
Big capital and the monopolies that made big profits during the period of growth are having difficulties investing their accumulated capital.
The banking groups that have suffocated the popular strata with predatory loans, consumer, mortgage and business loans, find it difficult to further deprive the indebted popular households and the thousands of small businesses that are on the brink of collapse.
The monopolies seek to pass the consequences of their crisis on to the permanent villeins, the workers, the self-employed and the other popular strata.
Their governments are promoting wage and social security cuts. They impose new unbearable taxes, "the solidarity levy", "the PPC's gouaches", the reduction of the tax-free allowance, and in addition to the self-employed, "the business tax".
They completely hand over public education, health, welfare, social security to big capital.
The recovery they are planning, in order to return big capital to high profitability, presupposes an intensification of exploitation, destruction of productive forces, fewer and poorer self-employed people.
Their concern for the thousands of small businesses that are rapidly closing down is hypocritical and false.
The European Union considers them an unnecessary burden, an obstacle to development, a "structural problem".
The parties that support the "European one-way street" are scaremongering about the state deficits and debts caused by the pro-monopoly policies implemented in previous years.
They terrorize and blackmail the people, calling on them to accept the barbaric anti-people measures that are being imposed at breakneck speed, to bow their heads, to submit.
Self-employed professional, craftsman, small traderIn modern developed capitalism, monopolies are increasingly concentrating in their hands, production, trade, tourism, every economic activity in every sector.
Monopolization is a one-way street, accelerated by the country's accession to the European Union and facilitated by the economic crisis.
But monopolies, apart from economic power, also have political power in their hands.
Their political servants, the bourgeois parties and their governments, the complex mechanisms of ideological manipulation, the repressive mechanisms, aim to consolidate and protect it.
Such were the governments of PASOK and ND.
The development of monopolies and the policies that serve them have significantly reduced the ability of a small business to provide the self-employed with a decent wage and a relatively stable job.
With its limited resources, it is struggling to operate.
With the economic crisis, the difficulties became gigantic and turned into deadlocks.
This situation is not temporary, much less reversible.
There will not come a time when hundreds of thousands of small businesses will prosper in the country.
Any political proposal that proclaims the opposite is unfounded and disorienting.
Those who defend the so-called "backbone of the national economy" are spreading illusions, mocking the self-employed.
No matter how hard the self-employed person tries, no matter how many hours they work, no matter how many skills they have, they cannot and will not reverse the basic economic developments.
It makes no sense to base his effort on the illusion that he can become a big businessman and get out of his predicament.
Instead it must see the need for joint action with public and private sector workers.
Self-employed professional, craftsman, small traderThe governments of the two-party system are responsible for the difficult situation you are experiencing today, for all the measures that have reduced your income and mined your job.
In the programmes of PASOK and ND, all the unpopular directions of the European Union are reflected, despite the individual differences that serve the competition between them.
It makes no difference who was a better and who was a worse prime minister, who was a more worthy and hard-working minister.
The monopolies have a way of crushing their political employees and promoting other supposedly indestructible ones, depending on the political situation.
What matters is that both parties have the emblems of the monopolies written on their flags and "drink water" in their name.
This is how they went through the period of "growth", and this is how they are politicking in the period of crisis. They have nothing to offer you except unemployment and submission.
The members of parliament who were detached from these parties and today form new formations (Kamenos' party, Katseli's party, etc., members of parliament joining the Democratic Party of Greece) belong to the same political family.
They took part in the previous governments, they supported them with their votes, they have the same responsibility for the unpopular policies.
They are willing to serve the interests of the monopolies again from their new posts.
SYN-SYRIZA and its offshoots have spread illusions, with their grand talk of a "Europe of the peoples" which, supposedly, is the golden mean between profits and the needs of the people.
It supports the untenable position that a pro-popular policy is possible within the framework of the domination of the monopolies, that the European Union can be transformed into an organisation that serves the interests of the people.
Its trade unionists were at the forefront of the consensus and compromise, and are the "right hand" of the compromised majorities in the GSEVEE and the chambers.
The L.A.O.S., attempts to stomp on the two-party system with its nationalist and xenophobic crowns.
It serves, in practice, the same pro-monopoly policy and the "European perspective" as a guarantee of stability.
His recent participation in the government proved this.
With his departure he did not change course, he folded out of fear of electoral shrinkage, in the face of popular outcry against the unpopular measures being implemented.
Self-employed professionals, craftsmen, small traders The KKE has steadfastly and unwaveringly opposed pro-monopoly policies and fought against the consequences of all anti-people's measures.
It voted against the treaties and laws that gave "land and water" to the monopolies.
He pointed out in time that the policy of the European Union and the governments for small and medium-sized enterprises does not concern the hundreds of thousands of self-employed and small businesses struggling for a living.
He debunked the arguments about "fair" and just competition with monopolies and the scams of supposedly establishing rules to soften it.
In the capitalist market the law of the jungle and the law of the strongest prevails.
The KKE condemned the theories about the unity of interests of the "business world" which puts victims and victims, self-employed and monopolies in the same bag.
These perceptions are disorienting, a smokescreen to hide the real contradictions that dominate society.
The KKE has shown that the interests of the self-employed are inextricably linked to the interests of the working class and the other popular strata who face the same problems and, in the main, have the same opponent, the monopolies.
The KKE trade unionists denounced the compromising attitude of the leadership of the GSEVEE, the ESEE and the chambers of commerce, which is formed by the forces of PASOK and ND with the support of SYN.
These leaderships backed all the unpopular measures, took part in the "social dialogues", created the KEKs to integrate the self-employed.
These leaderships undermine the struggles, sow illusions, and prove dangerous to the real interests of the self-employed and small businesses.
That is why the communists took the lead in rallying the anti-monopoly forces in the trade union movement, through the ranks of the Pan-Hellenic Anti-Monopoly Union of Trade Unions (PASEBE).
Only the trade unionists, the unions and the federations that form it, can give a militant way out to the acute problems that self-employed people and small businesses are facing today.
PASEBE together with PAME and PASY can contribute to the formation of a social alliance capable of imposing reversals at the level of the economy and power.
The KKE has proposed and is fighting for a framework of positions that responds to the current needs of the self-employed in conflict with the anti-people's policies and opens up paths for their overthrow.
 Abolition of any kind of "objective criteria", the "business tax", the "solidarity contribution" and the PPC's trenches.
Individual tax-free threshold of 20,000 euros, family tax-free threshold of 40,000 euros and 5,000 euros for each child.
 Make big capital pay, increase its taxes and profits to 45% immediately.
 Funding of the OAEE by 2/3 of the costs.
Replenishment by the state of the reserves that were robbed.
Reduce contributions and freeze debts to the fund for as long as the crisis lasts.
Stop the legal persecution of insured persons.
Lower pension at €1,150.
Free health care for those unable to pay their contributions, stamping of all health books immediately.
 Unemployment benefit and free health care for the self-employed who are forced to close their shops.
 Freeze debts to the state and banks and ban foreclosures as long as the economic crisis lasts.
Favourable debt regulation.
 No to the further extension of shop opening hours and the
abolition of the Sunday holiday.
A single 48-hour working week,
with Sunday holidays, 3 afternoons closed for all shops, large and small, compulsory.
 Withdrawal of all laws that serve to liberalize the "closed professions".
 Interest-free financing for the self-employed as long as the crisis lasts, with a public guarantee.
Self-employed professionals, craftsmen, small tradersThe KKE proposes the only realistic way that can give an answer to the present deadlocks.
Only the POPULAR POWER can manage social evolution for the benefit of today's and tomorrow's needs of the self-employed.
And this will be done in two ways: by the socialisation of the concentrated means in manufacturing, agricultural production, construction and tourism.
With full social ownership of strategic sectors such as energy, transport, telecommunications, commerce, banking, health and welfare, culture and sport.
The organization of the socialized sector with central planning of the economy.
The distribution of the workforce which includes hundreds of thousands of today's self-employed who will be relieved of the daily agony of survival.
With job security, humane working hours and conditions, with an income and social benefits that meet the needs of the people, they will be better able to develop their particular skills.
With the co-operative of micro-enterprises in sectors of production with low concentration, it will be possible to exploit the dispersed and fragmented productive forces of the self-employed, to link them with centrally planned production, state infrastructure, state trade.
This will gradually increase the productivity of labour, making better use of machinery, tools and raw materials.
The co-operative self-employed person will get rid of unnecessary and meaningless occupations imposed on him by capitalism and will devote himself to the productive process.
With the cooperative, the conditions for its integration into the centralised social production will be formed.
Apart from the above, the POPULAR POWER has the ability to ensure free health and education, sufficient time for rest, social security and so much more, which today the monopolies sacrifice on the altar of profitability and exploitation.
There is the experience of the socialist countries that proves the realism of this perspective.
The socialism we have known has sought to serve the needs of the popular strata.
It was the practical realization of social necessity.
It released productive forces that capitalism is not able to exploit, so it did not face economic crises, its growth was continuous and unprecedented for the economic data of the time.
Its overthrow was only possible when it was falsified by the rules of the "free market" and capitalist profit.
Today we are witnessing the dispossession of all popular conquests which, under the dynamic of socialism and with the struggle of the popular movement, capitalism was forced to adopt, on its own terms, capitalism.
This explains the rage of the exploiters and their apologists to slander him.
Self-employed professional, craftsman, small traderThe KKE, consistent with its long historical journey and its ideals, is clear and unequivocal.
YOUR FUTURE CANNOT COOPERATE WITH MONOPOLIES AND THE EUROPEAN UNIONà
There is no prospect with the policies that serve them and were implemented by the governments of PASOK and ND.à
SYN-SYRIZA, and the other parties of the "Euro-modal" cannot support or guarantee any pro-popular proposal.
THERE IS A CHANGE TODAYà In the change of the correlations in the trade union movement.
In organised resistance and struggles with the anti-monopoly forces of the trade union movement, the PACEW, which can put a stop to the barbaric anti-people's measures.à
In joint action with the other popular strata, the working class and the poor peasantry, with the youth of the popular forces, which can build a popular front of resistance and struggle that will facilitate the concentration of popular forces, capable of turning things upside down.à
THERE IS HOPE FOR TOMORROW à
In popular power and the popular economy, which can secure what the monopolies and their power are depriving you of, accelerate social progress and serve the popular welfare.
IN THE ELECTIONS ONLY A VOTE FOR THE KKE can give impetus to the struggles, to strengthen the development of the popular struggle.
Only an alliance with the KKE opens up prospects.à vital people's needs and their workers would enjoy rights and humane working conditions.
