PRINCIPLES
The IYI Party announced its eight principles, which set out its understanding and will to govern our country, in front of tens of thousands of participants at its 1st Extraordinary Congress on April 1, 2018.
These principles are as follows:1. No one is greater than the nation.
2. Justice is for everyone and the institutions of law are equally available to all of us
3. The Republic and democracy are too precious to be left in the hands of one person, and it is the democratic parliamentary system that will carry that value.
4. All resources of the country should be distributed equally to all without discrimination of race, religion, sect, language, gender, politics.
5. Our weak and vulnerable people are unconditionally under the protection and responsibility of the State.
6. The goodness of man
and no plan or project that does not prioritize the security of the state.
7. Moral values,
scientific thinking
and the existence of individuals with a sense of responsibility is a fundamental value of our society.
8. Freedom of belief, freedom of expression
and freedom of enterprise are constitutionally guaranteed.
OUR UNDERSTANDING OF POLITICS
IYI Party is committed to the principle of morality in politics and justice in governance; It believes that "Sovereignty, Unconditionally and Unconditionally Belongs to Our Nation", which the Turkish Nation has secured by establishing the Republic.
IYI Party recognizes that the sole power that determines governance is the national will.
Strengthening democratic values in a free society with a just order guided by reason and science,
the protection of individual fundamental rights and freedoms,
ethical management principle
and the founding philosophy of our Republic.
WE ARE IN FAVOR OF A PLURALISTIC AND PARTICIPATORY DEMOCRACY
The IYI Party believes that the just manifestation of the national will, which is the main power of governance, should be realized where everyone can freely exercise all their political and social rights.
It argues that a pluralist and participatory democratic order is possible.
Believes in the importance of civil society organizations and the need for their active participation in the establishment and maintenance of an auditable and accountable public administration.
Defends the indivisible integrity of the Turkish Nation with its Country and State.
By protecting our national and spiritual values, to reach the level of contemporary civilization shown by Mustafa Kemal Atatürk, the founder of our Republic, to keep an honorable and respected place in the modern world family and to always move our country forward
operating in accordance with the norms and assumptions of the democratic rule of law is at the core of its policy.
It has absolute respect for the inherent rights of people to different languages, religions, races, beliefs, thoughts and expressions, to organize and live.
It considers difference as a cultural richness that needs to be protected instead of separation.
It rejects any discriminatory approach in government, in individual-state relations and in all areas of social life contrary to the requirements of a democratic society.
A state of law, where the nation builds the state together to serve the individual and society,
strong civil society
and a free media is a service institution, a basic structure that ensures the ability to live freely in peace and security.
The legislative, executive and judicial powers exercising sovereignty on behalf of the Turkish Nation, and all persons, institutions and organizations performing public work and functions in the general administrative system of the state, are based on compliance with the norms of the democratic rule of law, morality and justice in the use of authority and performance of duties.
It accepts that everyone's right to live as they believe, to think freely and to express their beliefs is non-negotiable, and that organizing for lawful promotion and dissemination is a fundamental right.
That everyone has equal rights in all institutions and in all areas of life, and that the secularism enshrined in the constitution
and equality before the law.
It argues that it will not take a stance for or against any belief or idea, and that fundamental rights and freedoms cannot be subject to any vote.
He does politics to glorify the Turkish nation with its values.
Our great religion rejects the use and abuse of Islam in daily politics.
It believes that it is everyone's right to demand swift and secure justice in the judiciary.
In every field, we will remove the obstacles that destroy, cover and damage the law of the right and the just, and ensure a fair trial.
and is committed to the full realization of the freedom to seek justice.
It accepts the family as the foundation of Turkish society and recognizes the family as the most fundamental social institution that transmits our cultural values, feelings and thoughts, customs and traditions to new generations.
It considers it indispensable for human rights and socio-economic development for our women to be at every level and position they deserve in social and political life and to participate unconditionally and unhindered in management and production processes.
Youth; developed and developed according to modern criteria,
is committed to the ideal of a fully independent and strong Turkey,
to be individuals imbued with moral values.
For this purpose, it advocates an understanding of education and training equipped with modern data and tools on the way to becoming a free-thinking information society at all levels and fields.
It recognizes the right of nature to keep the environment natural and healthy and is committed to its strict protection.
It undertakes to take administrative measures for the protection of owned or unclaimed animals, recognizing them as living beings and not as property, and to take deterrent punitive measures to ensure that they are not subjected to ill-treatment and that their right to life is guaranteed.
IYI Party is committed to ensure that the constitutional system operates according to the principles and procedures of parliamentary democracy.
DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC, SOCIAL CONSENSUS, STRONG CITIZENSHIP
It is our first duty to protect all fundamental rights and freedoms that we are entitled and entitled to as human beings, which are determined by universal principles and accepted by the modern world, and to eliminate all obstacles to their use.
Everyone is equal before the law.
Social, political, ethnic, sectarian or regional group rights or freedoms are unacceptable.
No person or group shall be privileged on these or any other grounds.
FUNDAMENTAL RIGHTS AND FREEDOMS
WE SEE FREEDOM OF BELIEF, OPINION and EXPRESSION AS AN INALIENABLE RIGHT FOR OUR PEOPLE.
1- We will constitutionally guarantee individual rights and freedoms within the framework of universal principles of law
We will constitutionally guarantee individual rights and freedoms within the framework of universal principles of law, and we will not allow arbitrary restrictions on the exercise of these rights and freedoms through legal or administrative regulations and practices.
Within the framework of the Constitution and laws, we will be able to temporarily restrict freedoms only in exceptional cases that pose a threat to national security, public health, public interest and public order, and
we will strictly prevent arbitrariness in administrative acts carried out under these restrictions.
Issues that fall within the scope of national security, public health, public interest and public order will be determined with common sense.
We will not allow self-interested approaches to the filling of concepts.
We will guarantee all fundamental rights and freedoms, especially freedom of communication, freedom to express and disseminate ideas, freedom of belief, freedom of initiative, freedom of assembly and demonstration, and privacy, which have become normalized under the previous government.
2- We will guarantee personal data privacy and democratic rights such as access to information and petition.
We will ensure the establishment of a fully independent data protection authority committed to universal principles in the processing, storage and erasure of personal data.
We will remove all legal and de facto obstacles to the individual's right to petition and to obtain accurate, real and timely information on administrative and legal processes.
Freedom of Belief
3- We will guarantee Freedom of Religion and Conscience.
The only limits to freedom of religion and conscience are not to contravene the Turkish Constitution and not to disturb social order and peace.
It is the fundamental duty of the state to ensure that all religious organizations and activities comply with the Constitution and do not disturb social order and peace.
Under IYI Party rule, freedom of belief is under state guarantee.
This includes learning, teaching and living one's faith individually and collectively.
This guarantee also applies to people of different faiths or no faith at all.
We will not impose the beliefs of one group, sect or denomination on society and we will ensure that the state remains at an equal distance to all beliefs at all times.
The main criterion for guaranteeing freedom of religion and belief is based on the principle of the social state providing public services, and we will not impose any belief or political view through services provided or not provided by the public administration.
We will make arrangements to ensure that places of worship of all faiths in Turkey (mosques, cemevis, churches and synagogues, etc.) and their religious officials benefit equally from all services and opportunities offered by the State without being dependent on the patronage of the bureaucracy.
We will guarantee the rights of all members of minority and non-minority faiths within the framework of national and international law.
Freedom of Expression and Press
4- We will guarantee Freedom of Expression and Freedom of the Press.
Freedom of speech and freedom of expression, which is one of the most important requirements of a democratic society, is of vital importance for our Party.
We will abolish all prohibitive, punitive, and obstructive bans on freedom of expression imposed by the political power in this field and pave the way for the individual and society to express themselves, which is a sine qua non of a democratic social order.
We will make the necessary legal arrangements in this area.
We will guarantee freedom of the press in line with EU criteria and remove legal obstacles and administrative practices that prevent press workers from doing their job properly.
5- We will abolish censorship of the press, promote plurality of voices in the press and broadcasting sector, and ensure independent, transparent and impartial journalism.
We will stand at an equal distance to all press and broadcasting organizations, we will encourage polyphony in the press and broadcasting sector.
We will prevent the sector from being used for propaganda purposes by a narrow caste, group or political group.
We will ensure that the press and broadcasting sector is taken out from under the management of conglomerate bosses and that independent, transparent and impartial journalism is carried out only by media organizations focused on this work.
We will ensure that all media organizations, regardless of their worldview or political discourse, benefit equally and fairly from revenue sources such as public advertisements.
6- We will reorganize the Duties and Authorities of RTÜK We
will end the use of RTÜK as a political pressure tool.
Instead of an interventionist and prohibitive RTÜK, we will create a structure that regulates the broadcasting sector and ensures equal opportunities in the sector.
We will take all kinds of legal and administrative measures to eliminate the concept of television broadcasting that legitimizes and normalizes violence based on unregulated, irresponsible and intensely imposed violence images, especially violence against women and children.
We will take away RTÜK's authority to control internet media.
We will give all political parties enough time to explain themselves to the public, especially during election periods.
7- We will sell TRT.
TRT has lost its characteristic of being a reformable institution.
It has turned into an institution that is out of touch with the needs of society and insensitive to market conditions, wasting public resources and the nation's revenues.
We will sell TRT, which is a huge burden on every single citizen and the state.
A FREE and SANCTION-FREE INTERNET
8- We will lift all bans on the internet.
We will lift all bans on the new medium, the Internet.
We will abolish the provisions of Law No. 5651 on website bans and political power-driven administrative control over the internet.
We will narrow the powers of the ICTA and restructure it with a libertarian perspective.
We will prevent restrictions on access to collective content production channels such as Wikipedia and Youtube and ensure public access to information.
9- We will combat hate speech and cyberbullying on the internet.
We will combat hate speech and cyberbullying online.
We will not tolerate discourse that divides society and incites hatred and discrimination.
10- We will prepare a new "Media, Communication and Public Relations Law" and establish an institutional structure free from the interference of political authority.
We will prepare a new "Media and Communication Law" that is more up-to-date, more understandable and clearly outlined.
We will unify institutions such as BYEGM and the Press Advertisement Agency and ensure that monitoring, supervision and inspection practices related to the media are carried out from a single source and we will make this institutional structure autonomous and free from the interference of political authority.
11- We will prevent the formation of guided media trusts that restrict press-media freedom by law.
We will create a legal and de facto environment against every operation that restricts and manipulates the freedom of the press and media.
We will prevent the formation of monopolies and media trusts that would violate this principle.
a constitution of social consensus and harmony
WE WILL MAKE A GOOD CONSTITUTION THAT ESTABLISHES A JUST ORDER AND GUARANTEES FUNDAMENTAL RIGHTS AND FREEDOMS!
12- We will make a GOOD constitution based on a new, principled and social consensus.
With the power and support of our nation, within the first year, we will make a new, principled, GOOD constitution that is both the reason and the source of legitimacy for the authority to govern, in consensus with all segments of the TBMM and the public.
BUILDING A STRONG, DEMOCRATIC PARLIAMENTARY SYSTEM
13- We will Rebuild a Strengthened Parliamentary System.
Within the first year of the IYI Party's rule, we will return to parliamentary democracy and establish a balanced separation of powers system with auditable power.
We will implement a strong democratic parliamentary system that makes the legislature effective and MPs functional.
We will remove the legal and de facto obstacles to realistic representation so that the Turkish Grand National Assembly, the legislative body, is constituted by the free will of the Turkish people.
We will ensure that the members of the Assembly, who have gained the ability to represent free will, exercise executive control.
We will strengthen the legislature by reducing the influence of the executive, which can become a pressure on the system.
We will re-establish an independent and impartial judiciary and the checks and balances mechanism of the constitutional system.
WE WILL DEMOCRATIZE ALL PROCESSES OF POLITICS
14- We will reorganize the Law on Political Parties and the Election Law, and lower the election threshold to 5%.
We will create overseas electoral districts for our citizens living abroad according to the number of voters.
Since it is not possible for a political party system without intra-party democracy to establish a democratic system in the country, we will amend the Law on Political Parties and the Election Law, which have not been amended for thirty-five years, within the first year as a law that allows intra-party democracy.
We will establish a system where the MPs elected by the people with their direct preferences and votes will be responsible for the voters and their organizations.
We will lower the election threshold to 5%.
For our citizens living abroad, we will create new electoral districts according to the number of voters, which will facilitate access to the ballot box.
We will provide the opportunity to elect our own MPs.
WE WILL REBUILD THE DEMOCRATIC PARLIAMENTARY SYSTEM IN A STRENGTHENED FORM
15-We will not use presidential decrees for malicious purposes.
Until the democratic parliamentary system is rebuilt, presidential decrees should only be used to restore the democratic functioning of the disintegrating state administration.
and only in administrative matters,
We will ensure that the essence of fundamental rights and freedoms are never touched and that they are transformed into law within 3 months at the latest.
16- We will ensure that the constitutional system functions according to the principles and procedures of parliamentary democracy.
We will ensure that the constitutional system functions according to the principles and procedures of parliamentary democracy.
We will return to parliamentary democracy and prevent the concentration of all powers in one hand.
We will ensure that the office of the Presidency will not be an office that divides society, but an office that will ensure the unity, integrity, representation and well-being of the country, and we will strengthen our unity and cohesion.
17- We will limit parliamentary immunity.
We will limit parliamentary immunity to the "freedom of the rostrum"
ESTABLISHING THE RULE OF LAW
WE WILL NEVER COMPROMISE ON THE RULE OF LAW
18- We will re-establish the rule of law.
We will re-establish the "rule of law", where justice is the fundamental principle in the administrative structure and activities of the state.
We will address all constitutional and legal regulations of the current government, which deliberately, planned and organizedly damage and destroy the democratic state of law, with an understanding of the rule of law, and we will rearrange them according to universal legal principles.
THERE CAN BE NO GREATER BETRAYAL THAN A JUDICIARY THAT IS NOT INDEPENDENT AND IMPARTIAL.
19- We will ensure that the judiciary is independent and impartial.
We will ensure that the judiciary is independent and impartial.
In this context, we will ensure that the state functions in accordance with the law on behalf of the nation and that the constitutional system is a "checks and balances" mechanism.
With an independent and impartial judiciary, we will guarantee the future legal security of society and the individual in a democratic order.
The greatest guarantee of an independent judiciary is the natural judge and the principle of judicial security.
We will ensure that cases are heard by judges with a predetermined term of office and that a judge cannot be deprived of his/her authority based on a case he/she has heard.
20- We will ensure that universal principles of law are the basis of the proceedings.
We will realize the principle of fair trial by ensuring compliance with universal legal principles such as the presumption of innocence, the individuality of crime and punishment, and "the accused benefits from doubt" in criminal proceedings.
In accordance with the principle of individuality in crime and punishment, we will prevent the inhumane treatment of the relatives of the perpetrator to the group or community outside the investigation or trial, which is not related to the crime, for this reason alone.
21- We will never allow illegal procedures and methods during investigation, prosecution and execution.
We will never tolerate illegal procedures and methods during investigation, prosecution and execution.
We will criminalize the illegal obtaining of evidence.
We will make the existence of strong suspicion of a crime the basis for arrests.
We will not allow arbitrariness in detention, observation and arrest decisions.
22- We will restructure the Constitutional Court.
By restructuring the Constitutional Court, which is the insurance of the democratic rule of law and the main guarantor of fundamental rights and freedoms,
We will ensure that it becomes the highest court in a judicial system that rules with justice.
We will strengthen the organizational and personnel structure of the Constitutional Court in order to enable it to more effectively fulfill its duty of reviewing and finalizing the increasing number of "Individual Applications".
23- We will reorganize the structure of the Council of Judges and Prosecutors.
We will reorganize the structure of the Council of Judges and Prosecutors, which is responsible for ensuring and establishing the independence of the judiciary and judges.
We will make legal arrangements to ensure that judges carry out their profession in a transparent and impartial manner and within the scope of the guarantee of judgeship within the framework of ethical principles.
We will facilitate the right to demand justice in law and practice, we will establish a fast, effective and fair judicial system.
24- We will make the recruitment of judges and prosecutors based on merit and in accordance with the principles of equity.
We will follow a three-stage process for the reinstatement of judges and prosecutors.
In the test exam to be conducted by ÖSYM, we will measure your education, knowledge, experience and equipment.
In the written exam prepared by qualified lawyers, we will evaluate your knowledge in the field of law.
We will conduct their interviews according to objective criteria that will measure their ability to represent and suitability for the profession.
Interviews will be recorded and made open to the control and supervision of the parties.
25- We will take judicial control of the administration as a basis.
Judicial review of the administration is essential.
Every work and transaction of public officials at all levels and grades must necessarily have a legal basis.
We will hold those who exercise authority on behalf of public institutions and organizations to account before the law for their actions and transactions that lack legal basis.
26- We will immediately abolish the Criminal Judgeships of Peace.
We will immediately abolish the Criminal Judgeships of Peace, which are known to operate under political instructions, and we will reinstate the order of magistrates, first instance and heavy criminal courts in criminal proceedings.
Thus, we will also implement the principle that objections to decisions in international standards will be heard by a higher ranked court-judge.
27- We will separate prisons and detention centers.
We will abolish juvenile detention centers and replace them with rehabilitation centers.
We will exceptionally apply detention as a trial measure.
In cases of conviction, detention and confiscation, we will not violate the international conventions to which we are a party, the universal principles of law and international norms.
We will improve the physical conditions in penal and execution institutions and separate prisons and detention centers.
We will abolish juvenile detention centers.
We will build rehabilitation centers instead.
We will ensure that our children receive compulsory skills development and basic and vocational training during the rehabilitation process.
WE WILL BRING OUR PEOPLE BACK TO THE JUDICIAL SYSTEM OF DEVELOPED DEMOCRACIES.
28- We will make the Judicial Process fast, simple and accessible.
We will reduce litigation fees and costs, which constitute an obstacle to the search for rights, and we will make the legal aid institution operational in case of financial insufficiency.
In order to reduce the workload of the courts of first instance, courts of appeal and high courts, we will increase the functions to ensure the participation of the judicial authorities in the process by establishing more courts and judicial units within the justice system, instead of transferring judicial affairs and transactions to institutions and units outside the judiciary.
29- We will strengthen the institutional infrastructure of the justice system.
We will renew the physical and technological conditions of the justice institution in accordance with contemporary criteria, and strengthen the judicial staff in terms of number, quality and training.
THE BALLOT BOX IS THE HONOR OF THE STATE!
30- We will renew the Supreme Electoral Council and restore public trust.
We will renew the Supreme Electoral Council, which has lost its credibility in society, and restore its reputation.
We will resolutely enforce criminal norms against YSK officials and employees who condone election fraud.
In the IYI Party government, we will transform the Supreme Election Board into a functional structure that effectively ensures election security.
31- We will abolish the state of emergency.
We will abolish the State of Emergency and put an end to the arbitrariness of extraordinary administrative procedures
32- We will develop our Eastern and Southeastern regions economically and socially, and raise the welfare level of our citizens.
We will eliminate the current extraordinary social and political conditions in our eastern and southeastern regions.
Accelerating democratization
investment, production
and increase employment opportunities.
By realizing economic and social development, we will turn the provinces of the region into centers of attraction.
WE WILL SOLVE THE EAST AND SOUTHEAST ISSUE WITH THE FERASCY OF ANATOLIAN WOMEN...
33- We will establish the peace and confidence of our nation in all our regions
For the permanent solution of the Eastern and Southeastern issue; we will continue our struggle against terrorism without making any concessions, we will end terrorism, we will ensure the peace and confidence of the people of the region.
UNDER THE GOOD PARTY GOVERNMENT, WE WILL BRING 81 MILLION PEOPLE TOGETHER AROUND A FEAST TABLE.
34-We will eliminate the areas of abuse that feed terrorism.
We will prepare a road map that includes legal, political, economic, social and cultural projects aimed at the socio-economic development of the region in order to eliminate the areas of exploitation that feed terrorism.
In our government, we will bring 81 million people together around the feast table in brotherhood
FAIR, STRONG and PEOPLE-ORIENTED STATE
With the GOOD Public Administration Reform that our party will implement within the scope of restructuring the state, we will ensure that public services are easily accessible and affordable for our citizens without any discrimination.
Within the framework of the principles of "democratic participation", "citizen trust" and "social satisfaction", we will make life easier for our citizens and improve their quality of life.
We will provide a sustainable environment of prosperity and peace, we
will establish a participatory, productive, just, fair, conscientious, moral, auditable, predictable, reliable, modern, dynamic and peaceful public administration that adopts the understanding of 'happy nation, strong state'.
STRONG AND PEOPLE-SENSITIVE CENTRAL GOVERNMENT Public Administration Reform
TRANSPARENT and ACCOUNTABLE PUBLIC GOVERNMENT
35- With the "Public Administration Reform Law", we will realize the Citizen-Oriented Public Administration Reform, we will transition to a state structure that takes decisions based on information.
IYI Party believes that public services should be restructured as 'citizen satisfaction oriented'.
We will ensure that our citizens are at the center of public services.
We will review all business processes in the public sector, eliminate duplicate functions with the opportunities provided by technology, and build a fast, effective, efficient, transparent and accountable state structure.
In this framework, we will renew the central administration and establish a strong state structure that focuses on its core functions.
With the "Public Administration Reform Law", we will restructure the central administration.
We will redefine the powers, duties, responsibilities and financial relations between central and decentralized institutions and local administrations within the framework of contemporary democratic principles.
With the understanding of "zero tolerance for lawlessness", we will ensure the full adherence of the administration to the constitution and the law, and we will make the rule of law prevail.
We will put an end to the era of administrative, defective public service, and establish a Public Administration system based on fast, high quality, full and complete service delivery, which also questions the disruptions and delays in service.
We will rapidly abandon the red tape that makes the state cumbersome and often delays public services and causes victimization of our citizens.
We will implement service delivery based on citizen trust and declaration, supervised by performance criteria and service delivery times.
THE FOCUS OF THE PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION REFORM WILL BE ON A STATE MODEL THAT TAKES QUICK DECISIONS BASED ON INFORMATION.
In the Public Administration Reform; with the integrated e-Government system based on information and decision support systems, we will center on a state model that can make fast, accurate, transparent and accountable decisions for its citizens, not for the bureaucracy.
We will expand the integrated e-government system to all public institutions and organizations, local administrations and across the country.
We will ensure that our citizens have cheap and uninterrupted access to public information and public services.
WITH THE INTEGRATED E-GOVERNMENT MODEL, NO DOCUMENTS PRODUCED BY THE STATE WILL BE REQUIRED FROM CITIZENS.
36- Within the framework of the Public Administration Reform, we will simplify administrative processes, abolish outdated public institutions and organizations, and merge those carrying out similar tasks.
We will simplify administrative processes within the framework of the Public Administration Reform.
We will ensure efficiency, transparency and simplicity in the transactions of citizens and businesses with the public.
To this end, we will enact a Law on Administrative Procedure, reorganize the legal framework such as the Law on the Exercise of the Right to Petition, the Law on the Right to Information, the Law on Ombudsman, etc.
To prevent structural and institutional waste, we will abolish obsolete (e.g. the Council of Higher Education), inefficient and redundant public institutions and organizations and merge those that perform similar functions.
37- The President will return to Çankaya.
We will transform the office of the Presidency from a gigantic bureaucratic institution and preserve its status as the Head of State.
We will move the presidency back to Çankaya.
We will run the state from where our founding President ran it.
We will transform the presidential office from a gigantic bureaucratic institution into an institution responsible for the coordination and supervision of ministries and public administrations.
We will return to the parliamentary system and preserve the office of the President as the head of state.
We will abolish the Presidency's position as the 'head of the executive' and leave some administrative duties under the authority and responsibility of the government.
38- We will put an end to the practice of deputy ministers.
We will put an end to the practice of deputy ministers, which causes conflicts of authority and inefficiency in ministries.
39- We will reorganize the principle of breadth of authority according to modern and democratic norms.
We will reorganize the principle of breadth of authority according to contemporary and democratic norms.
We will reduce the dependence of decentralized institutions on the center
and free the central administration from cumbersomeness and red tape.
40- We will return regulatory and supervisory institutions to their original functions and restore their administrative and financial autonomy.
We will prevent political interventions that are not in line with contemporary democratic norms and measures on regulatory and supervisory institutions, which are closely related to the economic rights and freedoms of our citizens and which have entered our law as independent administrative authorities.
We will ensure real administrative and financial autonomy of these institutions and reorganize them in a structure where they can take independent decisions.
41-We will ensure fairness and transparency in the utilization of public services by citizens and in the allocation of public resources.
We will transform public institutions into institutions with international quality standards; we will provide a structure in which citizens' business is concluded quickly.
We will act in accordance with national plans and strategies within the framework of the principles of equity, transparency and accountability in the allocation of public resources.
42- In accordance with participatory democracy, we will adopt a "Continuous Improvement" approach in the processes related to the provision and development of public services, and we will involve academia, civil society and citizens in this process.
We will ensure the participation of universities, research institutions and CSOs in decision-making, delivery and development of public services.
We will encourage these institutions to make evidence-based policy.
In the light of the outputs obtained, we will increase citizen satisfaction by "Continuously Improving" service quality in public administration.
We will make murderous democracy work.
Accessible Digital State
43- We will implement the Integrated e-Government Model.
We will implement the Integrated e-Government Model.
In the integrated e-Government system, we will not only be limited to transferring the existing business processes of the public sector to the electronic environment.
Reducing bureaucracy in this system,
realizing transparency and accountability in the public sector,
We will operate it as a platform for the transition to participatory democracy at local and national level in public works and procedures.
We will make the E-Government portal user-friendly and functional.
44- We will popularize Electronic Signature.
We will reduce the costs that prevent the widespread use of electronic signature, develop and diversify e-Government services in the provision of public services.
45- We will establish a Digital Transformation Presidency that will be responsible for Turkey's transformation into a knowledge economy and the establishment of an integrated e-Government system.
We will prepare a roadmap for transformation to a knowledge economy.
We will end the failed e-Government projects that are currently burdening the public sector, and we will restructure the institutional structure for the transformation of the information society and the knowledge economy.
Within the framework of the updated e-Transformation Strategy, we will coordinate e-Government projects and Public ICT Investments from a single source.
We will establish a Digital Transformation Presidency, which will be responsible for Turkey's transformation into a knowledge economy, the establishment of an integrated e-Government system and the coordination of public ICT projects.
46- We will recognize internet access as a fundamental human right.
We will recognize internet access as a basic human right.
We will take necessary measures to increase the use of e-Government services by all citizens and to ensure access to the Internet for disadvantaged groups.
47- We will make access to the Internet and e-Government free of charge in public spaces.
By treating internet access as a basic infrastructure service, like electricity and water, we will ensure that it is provided to our citizens in all parts of our country in a quality and affordable manner and create equal opportunity in access to information.
To this end, we will restructure the Universal Service Fund, provide free internet service in public spaces, facilitate citizens' access to the internet
and expand the use of e-government.
We will encourage mobile internet access.
PUBLIC PERSONNEL REGIME
PUBLIC PERSONNEL REFORM IS BASED ON COMPETENCE, MERIT AND JUSTICE IN STATE ADMINISTRATION.
48- We will review the Public Personnel Regime, we will take merit as a basis in the entry, appointment and promotion of public officials according to the requirements of the information age.
We will eliminate political influence and pressure in the delivery of public services and the provision of the human resources needed.
The efficiency of civil servants and
We will reorganize the State Personnel Presidency and the Civil Servants Law to increase the efficiency of business processes.
We will impose serious legal responsibilities on line supervisors to ensure that the principles of "seniority, career and merit" are respected in appointments and promotions to public service; in the
event that it is found that the appointment is rigged, we will not only cancel arbitrary or fraudulent appointments, but we will also hold those who make such appointments criminally liable along with the appointee.
We will introduce the rule of replacing the top managers in the public sector (with new people with the title of civil servant) together with the political power.
We will abolish the "exceptional civil servant" status, which has been abused for a long time and has now become corrupt; we
will not allow any practice of recruitment from outside the public sector, except for technical and administrative necessities.
We will eliminate public hesitations regarding public appointments and improve the centralized examination system for the recruitment of public officials.
We will take the necessary measures to prevent any kind of abuse by ensuring exam security and to establish a fair exam system including a video interview system, and we will make the process of appointing personnel to the public sector transparent based on merit.
We will introduce the principle that each institution should meet its need for qualified "professional staff" from within its own ranks; we will not allow inter-institutional transfers in the appointment of professional civil servants.
We will reorganize service statuses and service classes in the public sector.
We will coordinate and drive Digital Transformation in public services and appoint Digital Transformation Leaders.
We will give functionality and depth to the norm cadre practice.
We will ensure that job descriptions are precise and clear.
We will establish an honest and objective system for the evaluation of public officials in terms of record and achievement, taking into account that the current system is rotten to the core.
We will eliminate salary differences between officials with the same status.
We will continue and improve the processes of specialization in the public sector.
49- We will carry out the primary and permanent duties required by public services by civil servants and other public officials.
We will continue the execution of the primary and permanent duties required by the public services that the state, state economic enterprises and other public legal entities are obliged to carry out according to the principles of general administration by civil servants and other public officials.
50- We will establish a "Financial Services Class".
We will improve the personal rights of Ministry of Finance employees.
We will establish the Financial Services Class.
We will abolish the title of Director and Assistant Director in the Ministry of Finance and replace it with the title of "State Revenue Specialist" with 3600 additional indicators.
We will equalize the personal rights of other personnel working in the Ministry of Finance with the personal rights of expert personnel in other institutions.
We will remedy the victimization of the employees of the Revenue Administration, General Directorate of National Real Estate and General Directorate of Accounting by immediately opening the "In-House Specialization Exams".
51- We will develop Norm Staffing based on Workload Analysis in Public Service Areas.
In order to produce more effective and efficient services in public institutions and organizations, we will conduct workload analyses and determine the minimum number of staff required for complete and uninterrupted services.
We will add personnel to the areas in need of personnel, we will reduce the work intensity by proportioning the number of public officials to the population.
52- We will prevent the employment of public officials outside their positions.
We will redefine the job descriptions of all staff and positions allocated to public institutions and organizations in order to ensure that only civil servants can perform the work that public officials are obliged to do and to determine the jobs that are equal to each other, and we will determine the powers and responsibilities of the personnel precisely and clearly.
53- Administrative service contracted and temporary staff will be given staff positions.
We will ensure that the personnel working in all public institutions and organizations are evaluated within the scope of Law No. 657 without exception.
Without exception, we will make all contracted 4-B, administrative service contracted and temporary staff permanent.
54- We will improve the personal rights and salaries of public servants and pensioners, we will not let them be crushed by inflation, we will give them a share of prosperity
In order to achieve the goal of a fairer income distribution and a more prosperous country, we will change our vision in wage policies for public servants.
and increase the salaries of pensioners
and we will ensure that they receive a greater share of prosperity in line with the economic development.
We will include all additional payments made to civil servants in the calculation of pension and retirement bonus, and we will ensure that retirees also benefit from spouse and child benefits.
55-We will mitigate disciplinary penalties for civil servants and lift the strike ban.
We will mitigate the disciplinary penalties stipulated in Law No. 657, remove the provisions that weaken the job security of civil servants, and lift the ban on strikes.
56- We will carry out a study to ensure that specialist privates and privates are transferred to staff at the end of their term of office.
We will work on the legal infrastructure for the transfer of contracted specialist privates and privates to appropriate positions at the end of their term of office.
57- We will grant additional rights to public personnel in risky professions.
We will identify the hazards of occupations with the Occupational Health and Safety Board.
We will determine the personnel who will benefit from actual service in an up-to-date manner, we will establish a board on this issue, and in accordance with the studies to be carried out by this board, we will redetermine the actual service increases of public servants, especially health personnel and mail distributors.
58- We will eliminate the differences in additional indicators of police officers.
We will resolve the injustice of additional indicators among public employees in similar situations.
We will give additional indicators to the personnel who cannot benefit from additional indicators, especially the personnel working in the Auxiliary Services Class, and we will redefine the additional indicators according to the hierarchical order and eliminate the differences in additional indicators, especially those experienced in the general manager, deputy general managers and directorate positions.
We will solve the injustice of additional indicators between public servants who have the same level of education and do the same job.
We will start the application of the additional indicator at the 9th grade and we will increase the additional indicator figures that have already been determined.
We will increase the additional indicators of our police officers to 3600 and above, based on their cadre grades.
59- We will reorganize the union organization of public employees.
We will make arrangements to ensure a modern union organization in the public sector.
60- We will solve the problems of SEE personnel arising from the Decree Law No. 666.
We will solve the problems faced by SEE personnel by amending the Decree Law No. 666, which determines the amount and rates of additional payments paid to public officials.
We will give up the practice of associating additional payments with payments such as production incentive bonus, overtime, fire compensation, making offsets or abolishing these payments completely.
61- We will make all subcontracted workers permanent.
We will urgently make the necessary legal arrangements to ensure that all subcontracted workers who for any reason are unable to get tenure can do so.
62-We will increase the additional course fees of teachers and lecturers.
We will pave the way for teachers to receive 3600 additional indicators.
For academics and teachers who give additional courses, we will increase the indicator figures in Article 176 of Law No. 657 and make the additional course fees in line with the conditions of the day and we will reorganize the additional course indicator figures.
We will pave the way for teachers to receive 3600 additional indicators according to their rank, length of service and performance
LOCAL GOVERNMENTS
IYI Party's understanding of local democracy is based on democratic local administration, service to the people, effective participation, fair and equal representation, co-management, political responsibility,
efficiency,
transparency and accountability principles.
63- We will restructure local administrations with the Local Administrations Reform Law
In order to increase citizen sensitivity and influence the decision-making processes of local administrations, we will ensure that representatives of relevant segments of society, mukhtars, professional chambers and non-governmental organizations are included in the decision commissions and boards of local administrations.
We will ensure fairness and equality in representation by determining the electoral districts of local administration council members at village, neighborhood and district levels.
We will ensure effective public scrutiny by making it compulsory for the agendas and decisions of the decision-making bodies of local administrations to be published in local media outlets.
We will make it compulsory for local administrations to "reach consensus with the public" for the disposals they make on public property and areas allocated for the common use of citizens.
We will reorganize the zoning powers of local administrations in order to prevent zoning corruption, rent and urban looting that bleed the public conscience.
We will ensure the participation of universities, civil society organizations and professional chambers in the preparation of zoning plans and increase the supervision authority of the central administration.
We will redefine the decentralization policy of the country; we will make it a priority to strengthen local administrations and to ensure that the service needs of the people are met by the nearest service unit.
We will restructure local administrations at metropolitan, provincial and district scales, and we will abandon the whole city practice.
We will redefine the mandate of local administrations and effectively supervise their use of the resources provided by the central government.
We will provide legal guarantees for the right of local administration bodies (assembly, council, president) to apply to administrative judiciary against each other's decisions.
64- We will conduct a research on the Settlement Centers System.
By conducting a Settlement Centers System Survey, we will identify functional regions in Turkey with a village/neighborhood-district-province hierarchy.
We will evaluate the districts in Turkey in terms of population, economic and social service centers and geographical proximity, and determine the priority districts for becoming a province.
We will develop policy proposals to increase the efficiency and speed of administration.
65- We will strengthen the institutional capacity of municipalities.
We will strengthen the institutional capacity of municipalities.
We will build their capacity and equip them to effectively fulfill the tasks assigned to them, within the framework of available means.
We will reduce administrative tutelage over municipalities and allow them to decide on their organizational structure and staffing levels.
Their operations will not be subject to the approval of the central government (with the exception of national security, international financial and political relations),
but the central government will exercise effective control over municipalities in order to prevent waste of resources and corruption.
66- We will expand e-Municipality Services to include "participatory mechanisms".
We will determine the minimum services that all municipalities should provide online, as well as the criteria for participation mechanisms, transparency and accountability.
We will expand e-Municipality Services, especially in Metropolitan Municipalities.
In the services to be provided by the Municipality, we will implement the "Responsible Participation Mechanism" where citizens can express their opinions and vote in mini-referendums on any service in the service areas "through their T.R. Identity Number and Address Information".
We will ensure that information on the income, expenditure and tender processes of municipalities is regularly provided to the citizens living in the service area within the framework of transparency and accountability principles.
67- We will include mukhtars in the decision-making mechanisms of municipalities in their service areas.
We will allocate "funds" from municipal budgets on a neighborhood basis.
We will include Muhtars in decision-making mechanisms in the service areas of municipalities.
We will receive their opinions on the projects to be implemented in their neighborhoods and villages.
We will allocate a certain amount of "allowance" to Muhtars from municipal budgets to meet urgent and prioritized common needs in their service areas.
68- We will reorganize the functions of the current partnerships, enterprises and companies of municipalities.
We will review the functions of the current partnerships, enterprises and companies of the municipalities; we will not allow the municipalities to assume the role of the state in economic life, which is being reduced, taking into account sectoral and local needs.
69- We will review the practice of metropolitanization and reorganize the relations of duties, powers and responsibilities between metropolitan municipalities and district municipalities.
We will reorganize the relations of authority, duty and responsibility between metropolitan municipalities and district municipalities based on the understanding of convenience, participation, speed and accessibility in service, quality and efficiency.
Considering that municipalities are city administrations, we will review the metropolitan metropolitan application.
We will adopt a new urban administrative structure by taking into account factors such as geographical conditions, transportation facilities, service delivery, rural development goals, citizen satisfaction and economies of scale, as well as population criteria in the urban and rural distinction.
Law No. 6360 will reorganize the villages in the region.
However, we will not re-establish special provincial administrations in this process.
We will ensure that village unions assume the duties, powers and responsibilities of special provincial administrations.
70- We will ensure that local administrations with tourism resorts receive 5% more share from budget revenues and employ more qualified personnel.
We will ensure that local administrations with tourism resorts receive 5% more share from the general budget revenues in order to provide the services they need, taking into account their increasing population during the summer months, and that they can employ more qualified personnel in accordance with their special conditions.
SUSTAINABLE LIVING CITIES
71- We will take Sustainable City criteria as reference in Urban Transformation.
We will give up economic policies based on urban rent and dominated by the construction sector.
We will make the necessary legal arrangements to return urban rents to the public, not to individuals.
We will increase budget allocations to local and central governments for natural and historical environmental protection.
We will abandon energy production that pollutes and destroys the environment.
We will implement sustainable clean energy production policies.
72- We will consider Urban Transformation as part of a holistic urban plan "not with the concern of rent, but with the GOOD City Goal".
We will consider Urban Transformation as part of a holistic urban plan "with the goal of a GOOD City, not with the concern of rent".
We will solve the problems created by the urban transformation practices initiated with the understanding of making the building stock safer in the face of earthquake danger and risk, in line with the principles and decisions in the integrity of the plan, taking into account the characteristics of the region.
73- We will implement the Coastal Law without exception.
We will implement the Coastal Law without exception. We will
prepare "Integrated Coastal Management Plans" and open the coasts for public use.
74- We will carry out a legal, managerial and administrative reform on conservation.
We will undertake a legal, managerial and administrative reform of conservation.
We will apply a more sensitive and special management model for places that are integrated with the natural environment (Cappadocia, archaeological sites, ruins, etc.).
As IYI Party, we will organize transportation with human-oriented plans and practices
, make cities more livable and increase the quality of life.
GOOD CITY MODEL
ecologically and barrier-free good cities
75- We will implement the GOOD City Model.
We will implement the Good City Model with the participation of the people by adopting an understanding of urbanization that is suitable for human character, the natural richness of the country and thousands of years of Anatolian culture.
We will plan urban spaces by taking Ecological Planning into account and harmonize the relations between human and environment with nature.
Within the scope of the "GOOD City" project, we will ensure that Urban Transformation regulations, which cause cities to be shaped under the pressure of development rents, are based on social development and environmental protection, and we will end the "betrayal" of cities.
Within the framework of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, we will facilitate access to public services in our cities, especially for the elderly, children and disabled people in need of social care, and we will initiate the implementation of 'Barrier-Free Cities'.
We will ensure that our cities are transformed into "Smart Cities" that use information and communication technologies to ensure the livability, workability and sustainability of the city.
Within the scope of the "We Are All Urban" project, cities will be modernized in terms of their social and cultural dimensions, and urban rights will be effectively used,
education of the city's people,
We will ensure active participation and easy access to cultural and artistic activities.
76- We will restructure TOKI.
We will return the Housing Development Administration (TOKI) to its original mission and ensure that low-income citizens have healthy housing.
We will transform TOKİ into a new administrative structure that does not neglect the natural and cultural environment and is based on public interest.
URBAN TRANSPORT
77- We will develop Intelligent Transportation Systems that take into account the characteristics of cities.
We will eliminate infrastructure deficiencies, systematize training and supervision, and support this system with Intelligent Transportation System (ITS) applications in order to make urban transportation fast, cheap and safe, to establish road traffic safety, and to minimize accidents with loss of life and property.
78- We will promote bicycle transportation in cities
We will develop the implementation of "people first" oriented transportation systems such as emission-free and public health sensitive bicycle and walking paths in urban transportation.
79- In order to reduce traffic density in cities and reduce carbon emissions, we will apply a tax discount on Electric Bicycles and ensure the establishment of charging stations by municipalities.
Reducing traffic congestion in cities
and to reduce carbon emissions, we will apply a tax reduction for electric bicycles,
we will not charge students for traffic registration,
municipalities will install charging stations in areas with high population and traffic density and on university campuses.
We will encourage the production of domestic electric bicycles.
80- We will form the backbone of urban transportation with rail systems.
We will provide all metropolitan cities with the necessary technical and financial support through the relevant ministry in the preparation of urban transportation plans and the construction of rail mass transportation systems, regardless of the party of the mayor.
We will take the rail system projects in our big cities, which cannot be completed due to financial and technical insufficiencies, under the ministry and finish them urgently.
We will establish rail systems between City Centers, Airport, Station and Bus Terminals, Organized Industrial Zones, Universities and Technology Development Zones in all metropolitan cities without exception.
81- We will increase parking lots in cities.
We will create car parking areas at the main public transport terminals, and plan parking lots in city centers in a way that encourages the reduction of car use.
82- We will encourage Smart City Transformations.
Together with Smart City Transformations, we will promote the use of active travel (walking and cycling) and integrated public transport systems.
We will expand smart traffic systems based on the principle of measuring instantaneous traffic flow on roads across the city through sensors.
We will plan the layout of stops and terminals in accordance with the walking distance to residences and workplaces.
83- We will review the Traffic Safety Action Plan and implement it effectively.
We will review and ensure the implementation of the "Traffic Safety Action Plan" in order to minimize traffic accidents and minimize the loss of life and property.
We will review the criteria for School and Student Shuttles, establish an accreditation and monitoring system, and increase the frequency of inspections.
We will establish a "National Accreditation System" for all commercial vehicle drivers and review the authorization system by conducting occupational suitability and psycho-technical tests.
ZERO TOLERANCE FOR CORRUPTION
The current government's desire to create its own rich has caused the disease of corruption to spread like cancer through politics, the state and society.
Increasing and changing forms of corruption have corrupted the political system, corrupted the state administration and corrupted society.
WE WILL END THE SYSTEM THAT FEEDS ON CORRUPTION, WE WILL USE THE NATION'S MONEY WELL.
84- We will enact a "Law on Public Transparency and Political Ethics" to combat corruption.
First of all, we will establish the legal framework for the fight against corruption and introduce punitive measures.
We will review and reorganize anti-corruption legislation with the "Law on Transparency and Political Ethics in the Public Sector".
We will implement the regulations in the first six months of our government.
We will make the penalties for corruption a deterrent.
85- We will abolish the statute of limitations for corruption crimes and remove these crimes from the scope of legislative immunity.
We will abolish the statute of limitations for corruption crimes and remove these crimes from the scope of legislative immunity.
We will create specialized courts for corruption trials and a special Criminal Chamber in the Supreme Court of Appeals.
86- We will make the financing of politics transparent.
We will make the financing of politics transparent.
We will clearly identify the sources of financing of political parties.
87- We will ensure that the Court of Accounts conducts effective and independent audits and that audit reports are presented to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey regularly and on time.
We will redefine the scope of the duties and powers of the Court of Accounts, which performs an audit function based on the parliament's right to make a budget; we will provide auditors with the opportunity to directly report corruption detected during audits to the competent prosecutors' offices.
88- We will subject Public Private Partnership model projects to the audit of the Court of Accounts.
We will make the projects tendered with the Public Private Partnership Model subject to the audit of the Court of Accounts by making a legal arrangement to include them as a separate chapter in the annual investment budget.
We will submit audit reports to the Parliament.
89- We will simplify the Public Procurement Legislation and harmonize it with the EU acquis.
We will free the Public Procurement Authority from political influence and establish autonomy.
We will make the Public Procurement legislation simple, transparent, understandable and in line with international standards within the framework of accountability principles.
We will ensure efficiency in the implementation of legislation.
We will publicize the tender processes through the media and the internet.
We will introduce a "Dynamic Public Procurement System" to prevent corruption.
We will limit abusive exceptional practices in public procurement such as invitations.
We will harmonize with EU legislation on this issue.
90-We will transform the State Supply Office into a "Public Central Procurement Agency".
We will transform the State Supply Office into a "Public Central Procurement Agency" to ensure cost efficiency through bulk procurement for similar needs of different institutions.
Thus, by using the bargaining power of the public sector, we will reduce the cost of public goods and services procurement and ensure the economical use of public resources.
STRONG FOREIGN POLICY AIMING FOR PEACE IN THE WORLD AND IN OUR REGION, PEACEFUL TURKEY
FOREIGN POLICY
91- National, Reputable,
Peace Oriented and
We will adopt a realistic foreign policy approach.
Turkey's foreign policy understanding, which is prepared by evaluating Turkey's historical achievements, the richness of its geography, its strategic and geopolitical position on the basis of political realism, will be based on the protection of Turkey's sovereign rights and multidimensional interests.
In this context, our Party will implement a "national foreign policy" based on a realistic analysis of the national power elements of our country.
On the basis of the great Atatürk's motto "Peace at Home, Peace in the World",
based on international law,
deterrent
balanced, peaceful,
We will pursue an effective, smart, decisive, respectable, reliable, stable, realistic, result-oriented and multifaceted foreign policy that aims not only to solve problems but also to prevent crises.
We will save Turkey from isolation in foreign policy.
We will put an end to the mistake of "Middle Easternization" into which our country has recently been drawn by religious-sectarian and social engineering approaches.
We will establish friendly, good-neighborly and cooperative relations with our neighbors and countries in the region, thus contributing to regional and world peace.
We will attach importance to the development of our relations with the countries of the Asia-Pacific region, which has become the new center of gravity of the world politically, economically, financially, culturally and militarily, in a multidimensional manner and on the basis of mutual interest, while furthering these relations of our country, which has deep-rooted and institutional relations with the West.
92- We will fulfill our responsibilities in bilateral and multilateral international agreements to which we are a party and in international organizations of which we are a founder or member in accordance with the principle of fidelity.
We will fulfill our responsibilities in bilateral and multilateral international agreements to which we are a party, and in international organizations of which we are a founder or member, in accordance with the principle of loyalty and in line with our national interests.
We will adopt a determined, persistent and follow-up attitude to ensure that our neighbors, allies and partners fulfill their treaty obligations towards Turkey.
93- We will strengthen the institutional structure, central and overseas organization of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
We will re-establish a Ministry of Foreign Affairs staff with a strong institutional identity, traditions and professional structure, which is a prerequisite for pursuing a national foreign policy.
We will determine the number of diplomats according to the need while strengthening the competent staff of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
94- We will put an end to the use of foreign policy as a domestic political tool.
We will pursue only national interests in foreign policy, we will not allow it to be used as a domestic political tool.
95- We will accelerate the negotiation process with the EU.
We believe that Turkey-EU relations are as important for the European Union as they are for Turkey.
The current full membership process does not serve mutual interests
Turkey-EU relations based on a healthy relationship are important not only for both sides but also for the Middle East, Kavasia, the Balkans and the Eastern Mediterranean.
In this framework, we will accelerate the negotiation process with the EU with the IYI Party Government.
We will represent the mutual interests of the parties in the negotiation process and ensure that the right relationship ground is established.
96- We will strengthen relations with the Turkic World, we will closely deal with the problems of Turks living abroad.
We will make the Turkic World, which is spread across the Eurasian geography, an important dimension of foreign policy.
We will develop multidimensional social, political, economic and cultural relations with the Turkic world, especially the Turkic Republics.
We will embrace millions of people in the Turkic World and our related communities, as well as in the lands where we share common beliefs, history and culture, as "brothers and sisters" beyond political borders.
We will build a bridge of friendship between Turkey and the countries where our compatriots live in the Balkans, which we see as an integral part of the Eurasian geography.
We will pay close attention to the problems of our citizens living all over the world, especially "European Turks", in the fields of education, culture, religion, social and economic issues, and we will support their solution.
97- We will cooperate closely with our neighbors in solving regional problems.
Maintain peace in the region,
We will take ownership of the region's problems without interfering in its internal affairs in order to increase opportunities for cooperation and promote non-aggression and good neighborly relations.
We will help countries in the region to develop their own resolution processes,
to prevent foreign interventions in these countries from near and far geographies,
We will work in close cooperation with the countries in the region to ensure an environment of peace, trust and tranquility.
We will form partnerships with the countries in the region in terms of underground resources and act jointly within the framework of national interests on energy supply security.
98- Cyprus is our National Cause.
Cyprus is a National Cause for Turkey.
The survival of the Turkish presence on the island is directly related to Turkey's national security and the delicate strategic balance between Turkey and Greece established by the Lausanne Peace Treaty.
We will make it essential for our Party to maintain sincere relations and cooperation based on mutual respect between the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus and the Republic of Turkey with the understanding of "one nation, two states".
The conclusion of an Economic, Defense, Security and Cooperation Agreement with the TRNC will be among the objectives of our Cyprus policy.
Our party opposes the Greek Cypriot side's exploration activities in the hydrocarbon resources around Cyprus, which ignores the fundamental rights of the Turkish Cypriot people, who are the co-owners of the island, over the natural resources.
We will work resolutely to prevent these unilateral activities of the Greek Cypriot Administration of Cyprus and its actions that constitute an encroachment on Turkey's Exclusive Economic Zone.
99-We will act decisively to protect Turkey's rights in the Aegean and to prevent violations.
We will work in good faith and sincerity to resolve the problems between the two states through dialogue and negotiations.
Despite being in the same international organizations and alliances, we will act decisively in protecting Turkey's rights in the Aegean and preventing violations in the face of approaches that violate the rights and sovereignty of the Republic of Turkey by violating the basic provisions of international law and agreements.
100- We will emphasize soft power elements in Turkish Foreign Policy.
We will restructure relevant institutions, especially TIKA.
By integrating Turkey's experiences on the path of development and progress into its foreign policy as an element of soft power, we will share and guide countries going through similar processes.
We will reorganize our institutions such as TIKA, Presidency for Turks Abroad and Related Communities under a ministry structure according to the requirements of the day.
101- We will act in cooperation with the international community in the global fight against terrorism
The global fight against terrorism occupies a very important place in international relations and foreign policies of countries today.
External migration due to war and internal conflicts has also become a threat to world peace.
Behind the scenes of these migratory trends, human, arms and narcotics trafficking cases make it necessary to continue the fight against the problem not only nationally but also internationally.
We will take the necessary measures to prevent external migration and enhance international cooperation.
INTERNAL SECURITY
The basis of our understanding of security is the rule of law,
The indivisible integrity of the Republic of Turkey with its country and nation, the national unity and solidarity of the Turkish Nation,
The qualities of the Republic,
free democratic order,
human rights and freedoms,
a free economic life,
to eliminate all kinds of criminal threats targeting the peace and social peace of the country by focusing on the environment of crime before the crime is committed, and to ensure an environment of trust, peace and tranquility in society by taking strong measures.
A PEACEFUL, SECURE AND GOOD TURKEY THAT HAS SOLVED ITS INTERNAL SECURITY PROBLEM.
102- We will review the appointment and promotion system of law enforcement agencies.
We will revise the appointment and promotion system of law enforcement organizations, we will reduce political interference in law enforcement to modern democratic measures, and we will take qualification, merit and success as basis in appointments and promotions.
103- We will strengthen preventive law enforcement with the "Law on the Prevention of Crimes".
We will make the Forensic Medicine Institution autonomous.
We will strengthen preventive law enforcement by enacting a "Law on the Prevention of Crimes" and take special preventive and rehabilitative measures for crimes that hurt the conscience of society, especially domestic violence, femicide, sexual abuse, gender discrimination, drug supply and child abuse.
Human dignity, rights and freedoms
and without compromising the rule of law,
We will ensure an environment of trust and peace in society by taking effective measures to eliminate all criminal threats targeting the public order and social peace of the country before they are committed.
In order to ensure effective crime scene evidence collection and evidence evaluation in criminal investigations, we will establish judicial law enforcement organizations under the Chief Public Prosecutor's Offices in provinces.
We will provide the Forensic Medicine Institution with an autonomous and scientific structure and ensure its fast and effective functioning.
WE WILL DEVELOP NATIONAL AND INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION MECHANISMS IN THE FIGHT AGAINST TERRORISM.
104- We will fight terrorism effectively.
Within the framework of the strategy document we will prepare to effectively combat terrorism, we will carry out all national power elements in political, bureaucratic, psychological, social, economic, cultural, financial, legal, military, police, intelligence and diplomatic fields in cooperation and coordination.
We will not allow terrorist organizations to establish themselves on our borders and create terrorist belts and islands of terror; in this context, we will develop joint struggle and intervention strategies with the legitimate authorities in the region.
Within the scope of the global and regional fight against terrorism, we will ensure all kinds of cooperation and coordination with international security organizations, regardless of the aims and objectives of terrorist organizations.
Today, our country's general internal security problems, especially destructive and separatist terrorism, stem not from a lack of laws, but from a lack of political will to fight effectively and decisively.
We will resolutely tackle all forms of terrorism.
We will carry out a decisive fight against all terrorist organizations, especially the PKK, FETO, Salafist Jihadist Organizations, which are the PKK, FETO, Salafist Jihadist Organizations, and all other terrorist organizations, using all military, political, economic, social and psychological means, which eliminate human rights and freedoms, especially the right to life, with acts of violence, turn our country into a field of action and threaten our borders, and putschist organizations trying to take over the state.
105- We will conduct the fight against terrorism in a "balanced" and "proportional" manner without compromising the principles of the rule of law.
The fight against terrorism will be conducted in a "balanced" and "proportionate" manner in terms of the size of the threat and the physical force we will use to eliminate the threat, without compromising the principles of the rule of law and the rule of law.
EVERY HUMAN BEING IS HAPPY IN THE LAND OF HIS BIRTH.
106- We will implement a new Syria policy.
We will ensure the return of our Syrian guests to their countries.
In 2019 Ramadan, we will break iftar together in Syria as the guests of our Syrian brothers and sisters.
Within the scope of international cooperation and joint struggle against the migration and refugee problem, we will ensure the establishment of secure areas in the source countries,
develop policies to prevent migration and refugee flows from these countries,
include third countries in readmission agreements and ensure that countries that cause or facilitate migration bear the costs.
We will help the Syrian refugees, who took refuge in our country as a result of the wrong policies of the previous government on Syria, to return to their countries through diplomacy and efforts to end the civil war in Syria.
Our Syria Policy; ■ We will not allow the Syrian issue to be used as a domestic political issue in Turkey.
We will recognize the territorial integrity of Syria and the official Syrian state administration.
We will initiate peaceful negotiations directly as Turkey, not under the shadow of any power.
In the areas cleared in the Afrin operation, we will ensure that full-fledged camps are established in agreement with the Syrian state and with the support of the international community.
We will cover the cost of these camps not from Turkey's budget, but from the funds of the UN and relevant international organizations.
We will take the Syrians under temporary protection under control in our country.
Based on the principle of "everyone is happy in their own homeland", we will cooperate with the Syrian state to ensure the return of Syrians under temporary protection to their homeland.
We will prevent anyone who is not a Turkish citizen from engaging in unregistered commercial activities.
We will grant temporary residence, not citizenship, to the parents of children born in Turkey.
We will not accept new requests for temporary protection and asylum.
OUTSIDE SECURITY
107- We will reorganize the Turkish Armed Forces according to the military needs of the 21st century.
The Turkish Armed Forces is the army of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, not the government.
We will not allow the Turkish army to be transformed into a party army, away from its identity as a national army.
We will keep the TSK out of daily politics.
We will not allow any group to organize within the TSK for whatever reason.
The changing threat environment and increasing asymmetric threats have brought about a sharp change in the organization and methods of warfare of armies since the current period.
In view of these developments, we will rapidly restructure the TSK's General Staff-Force-Army-Corps organization.
We will make the Turkish army self-sufficient in terms of meeting its own needs.
In this context, military hospitals and military factories/workshops that have been detached from the Turkish army will be brought back into the Turkish Army.
We will re-establish a military health system centered on GATA.
We will establish a new military domestic intelligence organization within the intelligence and counter-intelligence units of the Turkish Armed Forces.
With new legal regulations, we will equip this organization with duties and powers to detect and prevent the activities of FETÖ and similar terrorist organizations and organized crime organizations against military personnel.
108- We will restructure the Supreme Military Council.
We will reshape the Supreme Military Council (YAŞ), which has recently been formed in a way to bring the military into politics, based on the principle of keeping the military out of politics.
Based on the powers and responsibilities of the political will that should exist in a democratic country, we will ensure that the commanders will have a say in determining the people with whom they will work and who will be in charge of the Army in the future.
We will ensure that the Council's decisions on promotion are transparent and accountable.
We will introduce the representation of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey in the Supreme Military Council; in this context, we will make the Speaker of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and the Chairman of the National Defense Commission members of the Supreme Military Council.
109- We will restructure military schools, we will reopen GATA and all military schools, especially Kuleli Military High School.
We will reopen the closed non-commissioned officer class schools, military high schools, especially Kuleli Military High School, War Schools and War Academies.
110- We will bring the Gendarmerie General Command and Coast Guard Command back under the organizational structure of the General Staff.
The Gendarmerie General Command and Coast Guard Command, which have been transformed from military forces into armed security forces with the recent regulations, will be brought back under the organizational structure of the General Staff.
We will ensure that the Gendarmerie and Coast Guard work under the Ministry of Interior within the scope of their civilian duties.
111-We will reactivate the National Security Academy.
The awareness of the public security bureaucracy in determining national security policy needs to be raised.
We will reactivate the National Security Academy and ensure that the public security bureaucracy and, where necessary, private sector representatives and NGO representatives are informed about national security and national interests.
PRODUCTIVE ECONOMY, INCLUSIVE GROWTH FOR A BETTER FUTURE
As a result of the current economic administration's wobbling and corrupt practices, wasteful and abusive management approach, uninformed, unprincipled and unstable political approach, unregulated, unmeasured and inconsistent policies, Turkey has been left without industry, over-indebted,
impoverished,
looted
and condemned to hot money.
Our Economic Program is positioned on 3 main axes: Macroeconomic Stability,
Economic Geography
and Accelerator Sectors.
With our Macroeconomic Stability Program, we will bring out-of-control inflation, exchange rates and interest rates under control.
This will enable the private sector to see the way forward.
The macroeconomic stabilization program consists of the following components.
1.Balanced, inclusive, sustainable growth and development
2.Combating inflation
3.Financial stability and financial sector policies
4.Capital markets
5.Tax policies
6.Savings
We will change the Development Paradigm with our Economic Geography approach.
By strengthening the central-local relationship, we will reorganize it as local-national-global.
We will start our development drive from the local level.
We will implement the necessary policies to integrate each province first into the Turkish economy and then into the world economy.
We will reorganize local economies in Turkey to achieve the Macroeconomic National Goals.
To achieve this goal, we will implement Socio-Economic Development Programs at the economic basin and provincial level according to the development levels of each province and/or region.
GDP contribution for each province by redesigning the Investment and Incentive System and Development Institutions,
employment growth,
exports
and knowledge economy targets
and training on social development,
We will set health and income distribution targets.
We will revamp the Investment and Incentive System to ensure these objectives.
Industrialization to strengthen the competition and integration of urban economies with the world
and Agriculture Transformation and Innovation Strategies.
Our approach to Economic Geography is based on 3 pillars.
1. Investment climate and incentive system
2. Industrialization
3. Transformation and productivity strategy in agriculture
With the accelerator sectors (Transportation, Energy and Informatics), we will increase both our competitiveness and welfare level by realizing technological transformation in all sectors, increasing accessibility and reducing energy costs.
BALANCED, INCLUSIVE, SUSTAINABLE GROWTH AND DEVELOPMENT
112- In the medium term, we will increase per capita income to $16,000 and GDP to $1.4 trillion.
We will move to a new model of economic growth and development centered on production and employment.
We will eliminate the injustice in the distribution of national income.
Improvement of the investment climate, production factor efficiencies and
we will take measures to increase domestic savings.
We will raise the income and profit levels of businesses.
We will support production and business models that can be integrated into international production, marketing and value chains.
Unemployment foremost,
We will ensure a permanent solution to the structural problems in the economy, including inflation, the current account deficit and foreign debt.
We will make the necessary legal, administrative and structural arrangements for the real sector to grow in a qualified and stable manner, to improve its commercial cooperation and relations with foreign competition opportunities and to increase its profitability.
Our main goal will be to eliminate the conditions that produce high foreign trade deficit, high current account deficit, high external debt, fragile and unstable growth, and to create an institutionally and structurally balanced, stable and sustainable economic structure.
113- We will implement the Structural Reform Program.
We will present a detailed program on structural reforms to the public within the first 60 days of our government and implement it immediately.
114- We will discipline Public Finance with the Fiscal Rule Implementation.
We will discipline the current public finances that hinder balanced and sustainable growth within the framework of the "Fiscal Rule" approach.
We will revise the Public Financial Management and Control Law on the basis of "expenditure appropriateness" control and prevent wasteful government spending.
We will reactivate the audit of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey through the Court of Accounts.
At the end of each budget period, in line with the principles of transparency and accountability, we will share the details of public expenditures in a simple and understandable manner with the public through the press, publications and the internet.
115- We will ensure that TurkStat produces and maintains accurate, up-to-date and reliable data.
We will not allow politically motivated interventions in the production of statistical data of TurkStat and we will guarantee the autonomy of the institution.
We will increase the institutional capacity of TurkStat to produce data at international standards and verify the accuracy of historical data.
We will prepare statistical "local socio-economic outlook" and "global socio-economic outlook" reports with accredited private sector organizations.
We will improve administrative records in all institutions.
In cooperation with TurkStat, we will ensure data integration between institutions by protecting the security of personal data in the digital environment, and guarantee the consistency and accuracy of data produced in the same field.
116- We will abolish the Wealth Fund.
We will effectively manage public finance and debt management within the framework of the fiscal rule and ensure budget discipline and budget unity.
Within the framework of this rule, we will abolish the "Wealth Fund" and bring extra-budgetary funds under control and discipline.
117- We will abandon the practice of "Omnibus Laws"
We will put an end to the practice of "Omnibus Laws", which are incompatible with the law-making technique and are used to hastily amend many unrelated laws.
We will make legal arrangements to eliminate the financial, legal and administrative victimization caused by "Omnibus Laws".
FIGHT AGAINST INFLATION
118- We will restore the Central Bank's method and instrument independence.
We will re-establish stronger independence in the methodology and tools of monetary policy so that the Central Bank can focus on its core objective of price stability without being influenced by political pressures.
In return for strengthened independence, we will establish an accountability mechanism that measures the anti-inflation performance of the Monetary Policy Committee based on concrete criteria and has administrative consequences.
119- We will build a new modern campus for the Central Bank in Ankara that meets world standards in terms of physical and technological infrastructure.
We will ensure that the Central Bank of the Republic of Turkey, which has the exclusive authority to print money, one of the symbols of the sovereignty of the state, and which is also an institution that should be in close consultation with the government of which it is the economic advisor and treasurer, remains in the capital Ankara, the administrative center of our state.
In addition, we will build a new modern campus for the Central Bank that meets world standards in terms of physical and IT infrastructure.
120- We will ensure price stability by preserving the inflation targeting regime.
We will reduce high inflation to the OECD average level, which reduces the quality of life and welfare of the society, distorts consumption and saving habits, income and wealth distribution, disrupts the investment and production plans of the private sector, reduces the appetite for risk-taking, and leads to weaknesses and sensitivities in the budgeting, borrowing, saving and spending policies of public financial management, investment, foreign trade, incentive and tax policies.
We will seriously implement "Inflation Targeting", the most effective method in the fight against inflation.
We will restore the credibility of the Central Bank.
We will set government growth targets in a way that does not disrupt price and financial stability in the economy, monetary policy for a stable economy, fiscal policy
and investment incentive policies.
FINANCIAL STABILITY AND FINANCIAL SECTOR POLICIES
121- We Will Review Financial Sector Policies.
We will design financial sector policies in a way to ensure that the credit mechanism functions soundly and provides maximum support to economic growth, and we will implement them in close cooperation and coordination with all relevant institutions.
We will define macroprudential policy instruments and the procedures and principles regarding their use in the internal legislation of the Central Bank and the Banking Regulation and Supervision Agency.
122- We will strengthen the Financial Stability Committee.
We will strengthen the Financial Stability Committee by making the cooperation and coordination activities among the institutions represented in the Financial Stability Committee on the identification and assessment of systemic risk more institutionalized and transparent.
To this end, we will transfer the secretariat of the Committee from the Undersecretariat of Treasury to the Central Bank, and ensure that a concrete meeting schedule and communication strategy regarding the activities of the Committee are established and shared with the public.
123- We will encourage the transfer of foreign savings to Turkey.
In cooperation with the CBRT and the Undersecretariat of Treasury, we will enable Turkish citizens living abroad to invest their FX-denominated savings in Turkey with higher returns compared to investment alternatives in their countries of residence.
We will establish a new mechanism that will allow the Treasury to access external financing at relatively low costs.
124- We will restructure the BRSA and ensure its autonomy.
We will free the Banking Regulation and Supervision Agency from political influence and strengthen its institutional structure and audit capacity.
125- We will ensure independent and impartial supervision of all banks, especially state-owned banks.
We will ensure that all banks, especially state-owned banks, are audited in an "independent and impartial" manner by BRSA sworn bank auditors, so that systemic risks, especially those that may be posed by state-owned banks, are identified in a timely manner and necessary measures are taken.
126- We will completely free the credit policies of state banks from political influences.
We will completely free the lending policies of state-owned banks from political influence and allow them to focus on their core mandate.
Ziraat Bank's main field of activity is financing agriculture and livestock,
We will continue with the policy that Halk Bank will finance SMEs.
127- We will ensure full compliance with international standards in the field of financial stability and banking.
We will fully comply with the standards issued by international organizations of which we are a member in the field of financial stability and banking regulations, and we will eliminate the deficiencies in our domestic legislation.
128- We will restructure the Development Bank of Turkey and make it more effective.
In line with our Economic Development Program, we will restructure the Development Bank of Turkey, review its business model and improve its technical capacity.
129- We will return the SDIF to its original function and prevent abuses that violate property rights.
We will make the Savings Deposit Insurance Fund independent, transparent and accountable so that it can focus on its core function of insuring deposits.
We will not use political motives as a tool to violate property rights.
We will carry out the collection and sale of public receivables in a competitive and transparent manner and prevent abuses.
We will apply the provisions of the State Tender Law in SDIF sales.
CAPITAL MARKETS
130- We will restore the autonomy of the Capital Markets Board.
We will restore the independence of the Capital Markets Board.
We will activate activities for the development of funds such as venture capital.
We will prevent stock markets from being an area where small investors are constantly victimized.
131- We will guarantee the freedom of capital movements.
We will strengthen Turkey's integration into the international financial system.
We will maintain the freedom of capital movements in a way to protect the rights of both foreign investors and domestic foreign currency savers.
132- We will encourage public offerings and private sector bond offerings in the private sector.
We will make tax regulations to encourage going public and issuing bonds in the private sector, review the obligations on publicly traded companies and align them with international standards.
133- We will make legal and administrative arrangements regarding crowdfunding and cryptocurrency.
We will reorganize crowdfunding to make it easier for "start-ups" to access finance.
We will regulate emerging areas such as cryptocurrency.
We will aim to ensure that these innovations do not pose new risks on financial markets and that technological development is not hindered.
134- We will support Financial Technologies.
We will support Financial Technologies and work towards the dissemination of different financial applications to improve financial inclusion.
135-We will promote financial literacy.
To support the development of capital markets, we will pay special attention to promoting financial literacy.
We will introduce financial literacy into high school and university curricula.
EMPLOYMENT and WORKING LIFE
136- We will reduce the unemployment rate to the OECD average, to 5.6%.
We will determine a New Employment Strategy that takes into account Dynamic and Local Economies.
We will implement a realistic New Employment Strategy in line with the sectoral and spatial reorganization of production in Turkey from central-local to local-national-global.
We will build this strategy according to a dynamic computable general equilibrium model, taking into account inter-sectoral relations at the national level, economic basins within Turkey at the spatial level, and the relations of these economic basins with the global economy.
We will set indicative labor force, employment and unemployment targets at sectoral and economic basin level.
We will also utilize this model in poverty reduction and fair income distribution policies.
137- We will establish a national decision support system for real-time monitoring of the labor force.
By establishing a "National Labor Decision Support System", we will monitor the qualification development of the labor force through this system and organize job-guaranteed training programs.
We will integrate this system with similar private sector systems operating in Turkey.
Within this system, we will establish a "Vocational Needs, Demand and Follow-up System" to identify skills training for housewives and young people to ensure their participation in the labor market.
We will work to ensure that the unemployed can be employed not only domestically but also internationally.
We will ensure that more Turkish youth are appointed to management and expert positions in international organizations to which Turkey is a party and contributes to their budgets.
Thus, we will both increase our soft power in international critical institutions and
pave the way for our highly qualified young people in the international arena.
138- We will use the Unemployment Insurance Fund for its intended purpose.
We will prevent the Unemployment Insurance Fund from being used for purposes other than its original purpose.
We will use the Fund effectively in the fight against unemployment, especially youth unemployment.
139- We will transform İş-Kur into the "Human Resources Development Institution of Turkey" that will actively operate at local and national level.
We will emphasize active employment practices rather than passive employment policies.
We will transform İş-Kur into a "Human Resources Development Institution of Turkey" working in cooperation with national and international human resources enterprises.
We will reorganize İŞ-KUR resources in accordance with the needs of production sectors and in a way to increase employment.
140- We will fight against youth unemployment.
We will halve youth unemployment in 5 years.
We will make the fight against youth unemployment the center of our employment policy.
We will give priority to young people in the employment to be created in the industrialization works with the PPP model.
We will reduce youth unemployment to 8%.
141- We will encourage young people to be employed in basic sciences and R&D fields.
If students graduating from the Faculties of Engineering, Science, Medical Sciences, Science and Technology of universities are employed in the production, research, technology and incubation centers of the private sector; regardless of the amount of wages they receive, we will cover all kinds of taxes and SSI premiums from the budget for 5 years and we will make additional additional additional payments equivalent to the net minimum wage.
142- We will establish an R&D and Science Army.
We will increase the number of full-time equivalent researchers from 140 thousand to 300 thousand.
We will create a "real" inventory of Full-Time Equivalent Researchers, a key element for Turkey's transition to a knowledge economy.
We will ensure the training of R&D personnel required by the Advanced Technology Support Program in critical technology areas determined for the current situation and future goals of the Turkish economy.
143- We will increase the labor force participation rate of women to 50%.
We will increase the rate of women managers in public sector to 30% We
will make flexible labor market arrangements regarding working hours and premium payments in order to increase labor force participation rate.
We will increase the labor force participation rate of women from 32% to 50%.
We will increase the rate of women managers in public sector to 30%.
144- We will minimize work accidents.
We will bring working conditions that cause work accidents, especially in shipyards, mines and construction sites, into compliance through inspections.
As a result of workplace inspections, we will impose penal sanctions if the conditions are not in compliance with the legislation.
145- We will harmonize the legislation on labor health and labor safety with international norms.
We will revise the legislation on occupational health and safety in accordance with ILO norms and international legislation.
Occupational diseases will be re-evaluated according to ILO standards and we will work to eliminate the causes of occupational diseases in the field of labor law and type.
We will regulate overtime working conditions and wages in line with ILO standards.
TAX POLICIES
146- We will establish tax justice.
We will realize a comprehensive Tax Reform that is fair, simple and enforceable.
In this framework, we will prevent informality.
We will broaden the tax base.
Thus, we will realize a lower rate of taxation.
We will tax income, not expenditure.
We will establish a system where taxpayers trust and tax discipline is ensured.
147- We will reduce SCT rates.
We will gradually reduce the Special Consumption Tax (SCT) rates on certain goods, especially fuel.
148- We will not tax the minimum wage.
We will gradually remove taxes on the minimum wage.
We will reorganize the tax tariff to collect less income tax from employees earning above the minimum wage.
149- We will reduce the tax burden of artisans.
We will reduce the tax burden of small tradesmen and craftsmen subject to income tax, taking into account the minimum living standards.
150- We will make the Income and Corporate Tax legislation simple, fair and applicable.
We will simplify the Income Tax Law, Corporate Tax Law and secondary legislation in order to eliminate the victimization due to the complexity of the secondary legislation, and we will ensure that the legislation is understandable and applicable.
151- We will reduce Income Tax and Corporate Tax rates.
We will reduce the Corporate Tax rate, which is being reduced all over the world, first to 20% and then to 15%.
We will increase our country's potential to attract investors by gradually redefining the income tax tariff to a minimum of 10% and a maximum of 30%.
and reduce informality.
Thus, we will make it possible to broaden the tax base.
152- We will tax rent-based incomes.
We will implement a fairer taxation system by ensuring the taxation of rent-based incomes.
153- We will provide tax relief to taxpayers who fulfill their obligations regularly and on time.
In order to ensure a structure that supports and maintains budget discipline by increasing tax collection rates, we will make the tax discount support provided to taxpayers who fulfill their tax obligations on time applicable.
SAVINGS
154- We will increase domestic savings rates by encouraging the utilization of savings in long-term investment instruments.
We will implement incentive programs to increase domestic savings, reorganize, diversify and deepen these markets by restoring confidence and discipline in financial and financial markets.
We will use national funds more effectively and efficiently.
We will increase the financial literacy of our citizens to adopt savings habits.
By lowering the inflation rate, we will encourage savings to be invested in long-term investment instruments.
We will increase the diversity and ensure the reliability of financial instruments.
155- We will increase the reliability and returns of complementary insurance.
We will increase the reliability and returns of complementary insurances.
We will increase the number of people with complementary insurance by offering new options for Private Pension Insurance.
156- We will reduce unregistered employment by easing administrative and financial burdens.
We will implement policies to reduce informal employment.
We will reduce administrative and financial burdens and increase cooperation and coordination between public institutions and organizations affecting the labor market.
We will make the necessary legislative arrangements.
157- We will strengthen public finances and base spending and public investment decisions on objective, transparent and accountable criteria.
We will strengthen public finances and support productive and quality investments.
We will introduce new regulations to ensure effective, efficient and rational public investments.
We will review expenditures and implement austerity measures to prevent wasteful public expenditures (purchase and lease of executive cars and executive planes, unnecessary public building leases, representation and hospitality expenses, etc.).
investment climate and incentive system
158- We will simplify the Investment Incentive System.
We will establish an "Investment Incentive and Coordination Agency" and coordinate incentives from a single source.
We will make tax, investment, foreign trade and incentive legislation simple, straightforward, understandable and enforceable, thereby providing a reliable and predictable investment environment for foreign and domestic capital.
We will establish an "Investment Incentive and Coordination Agency" as a semi-autonomous organization of the Ministry of Development, with a semi-autonomous structure in which the private sector takes part in the decision-making mechanism, with the tasks of planning, managing, monitoring, evaluating and analyzing the effects of the incentive and support system from a single source.
We will eliminate the current system's multi-headed, disorganized, disjointed and duplicative structure that lacks measurement and evaluation.
Targeting the effective and efficient use of public resources;
aiming at high value-added production in exports and reducing input dependency in imports,
spreading capital to the grassroots and eliminating regional development gaps,
supporting the goal of healthy, strong development and growth with economic stability,
respectful to the environment and ecological structure, prioritizing the sustainable use of natural resources,
strengthening the structure of a regulated market economy and institutionalized democratic governance,
We will establish cash and non-cash incentive and support policies that support international brand building.
Instead of temporary incentives that are constantly extended, we will create a permanent predictable program.
We will ensure the most effective use of public resources by choosing the right incentive models through impact analyses.
159- We will develop and implement Socio-Economic Development Programs at provincial and/or economic basin level for the realization of macro targets set at national level.
Economically differentiated according to the development level of each region and containing realistic solutions to increase the welfare of that region;
We will develop policy programs that take into account concrete indicators such as exports per firm, technology level of exports, competitiveness, individual income, average wages, average life expectancy, average years of education, etc.
Thus national growth,
employment,
industry,
agriculture,
foreign trade
We will ensure that R&D and innovation targets are realized at the local level and strengthen central-local interaction in the economy
160- We will launch an investment mobilization.
We will attract at least $100 billion of qualified Foreign Direct Investment in Turkey in 5 years.
We will take urgent measures to improve the investment climate and launch an investment mobilization by organizing meetings with domestic and foreign investors within the first 100 days.
Within 5 years, we will attract at least $100 billion of qualified foreign direct investment to Turkey.
In order to realize this objective, we will establish "Investment Promotion and Incentive Units" that will operate internationally.
161- We will encourage qualified foreign direct investment and activate the system of advance specialization (mukteza) for investors.
We will eliminate uncertainties over tax obligations and increase predictability with an advance specialization (mukteza) system for investors.
We will work to make the Istanbul Arbitration Center more attractive.
162- We will create a central-local link in private sector investment incentives and establish "Investment Promotion, Incentives and Coordination Departments" at provincial level.
We will establish a strong central-local link in private sector investment incentives and establish "Investment Promotion, Incentives and Support Departments" at provincial and/or economic basin level.
We will position these Directorates as local organizations reporting to the "Investment Promotion and Coordination Authority" at the national level.
We will bring Regional Development Agencies, Investment Support Offices and KOSGEB provincial directorates under this Presidency.
These departments will be responsible for the design, management, monitoring and evaluation of public investment proposals and the promotion and support of private sector investments.
When necessary, we will enable it to make strategic and critical investments directly.
We will close down the Investment Monitoring and Coordination Departments under the Governorships and the provincial coordination boards that have become dysfunctional.
163-We will strengthen investment banking.
We will review the legal infrastructure to facilitate cooperation with international development banks and institutional investors in order to improve the financial sector's ability to raise funds from abroad.
We will support investment promotion and entrepreneurship activities through the Development Bank.
164- We will review the Public-Private Partnership (PPP) Model and restructure it for regional development and employment purposes.
We will review the public-private partnership model and establish a unit within the Undersecretariat of Treasury for risk analysis, monitoring, evaluation and contract management of existing investments within the framework of public finance discipline.
Public-Private Partnership Model in areas that will enable technological leapfrogging in high-income regions and
We will apply it in areas that will create an ecosystem effect that prioritizes solving the problem of chronic unemployment.
Sustainable Centers of Excellence 165- We will transform the production structure in line with Industry 4.0 and establish Sustainable Centers of Excellence (SMM) within this framework.
We will create a value chain of design, production, investment and innovation under the planning, supervision, oversight and consultancy of the public authority in order to produce innovative and creative products and business processes with advanced technology and added value.
We will establish Sustainable Centers of Excellence (SMC), where micro, SME and large-scale enterprises are brought together with a clustering model, hosting qualified education units and social life units in the region, in partnership with the public authority and encouraged with state support.
Cluster Based Investment and Trade Zones 166- We will establish "Cluster Based Investment and Trade Zones".
Local Industrialization Policies, employment of provinces or regions consisting of several provinces,
raise their income, welfare and development levels,
We will establish a new system to increase the added value, branding and competitiveness of sectors with development and growth potential specific to that province or region.
Within the framework of this system; globalization of the trade environment, liberalization of goods, services and capital movements,
We will establish "Cluster-Based Investment and Trade Zones" to enable provinces or regions to produce, promote, sell and market traditional or innovative and creative products and production models, to have export opportunities, and to compete at the international level, taking into account the development of a global network of cooperation and relations.
Trans Asia Investment and Cooperation Platform
167- We will establish Trans Asia Investment, Trade and Cooperation Platform.
We will integrate the logistics trade centers we will create within the scope of the "Belt and Road" project, which will start from the Asia Pacific region and extend to Europe, with Land-Sea-Rail and Airways.
Objectives of the project; - To ensure technology transfer,
- Production and
enabling employment growth,
- Increase the inflow of foreign direct investments with high value added and technology,
- Encouraging micro, SME and large-scale entrepreneurs to invest in export-oriented investments and production involving new markets; and
- Increase their competitive capacity through international investment, trade and cooperation.
With the platform, we will ensure the creation of structures and facilities for the activities that local and foreign entrepreneurs will carry out individually or jointly.
e-Commerce Platform
168- We will establish an e-Commerce Platform.
We will establish an "E-Commerce Platform" located at the intersection of land, rail, sea and air routes in order to fulfill the objectives such as ensuring the competitiveness of export products in terms of price, quality, quality and content in foreign markets, increasing exports in terms of quantity and value, increasing the profits and earnings, employment and added value of companies supplying products and services to export markets in our country.
We will establish an effective and sustainable overseas trade relations and cooperation network.
We will issue a "State Trust Certificate" labeled "Made in Turkey" for product inspection and safety, which will enhance and support the market image.
We will carry out product standardization and certification in line with the developing and changing product and production models of foreign markets.
We will establish a company-based monitoring, evaluation and supervision mechanism for the healthy and stable conduct of business and transactions such as the procurement and supply of export products.
We will establish logistics infrastructure facilities for storage, sorting, sorting, packaging, assembly, disassembly, handling, customs clearance and transportation of export products.
INDUSTRALIZATION
In order for the Turkish economy, which has entered a process of rapid deindustrialization and destabilization as a result of the economic policies pursued since the beginning of the 2000s, to get rid of the middle technology trap into which it has fallen in the last 10 years, we will determine and implement up-to-date, effective policies by being aware of the global transformation, change and developments in the field of science, industry and technology.
In order for our country to get out of the spiral of high current account deficit, foreign debt and inflation that it faces as a result of the chronic high foreign trade deficit, and to become a surplus country rather than a deficit country, we will implement decisive and rational policies to reduce our import dependency rates by increasing the share of medium-high and high-tech products in total exports in production and product composition.
We will develop new business models in line with transforming and changing technology and production methods.
We will develop policies to ensure sustainability and security in the supply of raw materials and inputs.
In our industrial and production policies, local economies and their characteristics will be taken into account, integrity will be ensured between local development and national growth targets, thus we will both increase welfare at the local level, prevent the accumulation of population through migration to big cities, and ensure the adaptation of the Turkish economy to the global economic system.
A BETTER TURKEY THAT DEVELOPS THROUGH INDUSTRIALIZATION
169-Industry and
We will determine foreign trade policies based on information.
In this context, the "Industrial Production Decision Support System" and
We will establish a "Foreign Trade Decision Support System"
We will contribute to the determination of industrial, foreign trade and incentive policies, we will improve sectoral communication, governance and cooperation at national and international level, we will adapt to the changing and transforming technological structure of production, we will create a "Foreign Trade Decision Support System" to create investment and trade models that will support efficiency and productivity in production.
and we will establish an "Industrial Production Decision Support System".
We will integrate TurkStat's existing industrial inventories and foreign trade databases with the relevant databases of the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology.
170- We will implement the "Businesses Growing with Knowledge Program".
We will provide mentoring (consultancy and know-how) support for Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises.
With the "Businesses Growing with Knowledge Program", we will ensure that enterprises can adapt to production and marketing channels, articulate with the transforming and changing technological production structure of national and international markets, respond to the needs and demands of the markets in terms of quality and content; develop cooperation and relations among themselves and with public institutions and organizations, domestic and foreign stakeholders, facilitate their access to administrative, legal, bureaucratic information and legislation, financing and financial markets.
We will ensure that businesses can formulate policies for R&D, P&D, production, promotion, marketing and foreign trade, and increase their share of R&D, turnover, productivity, employment and exports.
The program will support adaptation to global electronic trade channels.
We will provide mentoring (consultancy and know-how) support for Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises to grow and position them more effectively in local, national and international value chains.
171- We will support the manufacturing industry with the "Industry ÜR-GE Program".
Growth and development programs that reduce dependence on imports, increase the quality and value of exports, and include high added value,
prioritizing employment,
We will transform the manufacturing industry into a structure where technology and innovation-oriented manufacturing industry projects are supported and incentivized.
In the new investment incentive model we will create; we will increase the scale of enterprises,
employment growth
We will implement an INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTION and Development Program targeting high value-added production that will reduce import dependency.
172- We will establish an "Import Input Decision Support System" to reduce import input dependency.
We will establish a "National Input Procurement, Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation Institution" and introduce an "Imported Input Decision Support System" to reduce imported input dependency.
We will establish an information-based import policy management process and provide input to production and incentive planning on product, sector and regional basis.
173- We will train vocational technical intermediate labor force in number and quality in accordance with the sectoral and regional needs of the existing industry.
We will make vocational and technical high schools and vocational colleges attractive, increase their number and quality, and align the content of curricula and internship programs with the business and management models produced as a result of the technological, physical, intellectual, human capital and savings of companies in Organized Industrial Zones, Industrial Zones and Technoparks.
We will include the internship insurance of vocational high school students, paid by the state, in the number of insured days.
We will make the curricula of Vocational High Schools together with the relevant professional chambers.
174- We will provide short-term (6 months) military service for graduates of Vocational High Schools.
We will provide short-term military service to graduates of Vocational High Schools, and if Vocational High School and Vocational High School graduates work in their branches, we will halve the income tax deducted from their current wages above the minimum wage for 5 years.
175- We will encourage the Recycling Sector.
We will encourage businesses operating in the field of recycling, which is achieved through collection, sorting and separation of waste and residues.
AGRICULTURE AND FOOD SAFETY
transformation and productivity strategy in agriculture
176- We will implement the "Transformation and Productivity in Agriculture" Strategy.
We will implement the "Framework Program for Transformation and Productivity Strategy in Agriculture", which aims to achieve an annual average real increase of at least 5% in scale productivity in agriculture and increase agricultural employment in rural areas; Turkey's producers will become operators, operators will become exporters and exporters will become internationally competitive.
177- We will encourage agricultural R&D and establish "Atatürk Forest Farm Agricultural Research and Technology Development Institute".
We will encourage R&D studies in agriculture.
We will establish "ATATÜRK FOREST FARM Agricultural Research and Technology Development Institute".
We will provide the necessary funds for this from the budget of AOÇ.
We will accelerate soil, irrigation and seed research and development.
By utilizing the traditional seeds of our country and making maximum use of genetic technologies, we will develop seeds that are suitable for human health, productive and resistant to diseases.
We will finance R&D projects aiming to increase agricultural production and productivity of soil and water.
178- We will establish "Agricultural Production and Trade Zones" and realize enterprise consolidation.
In order to increase productivity and efficiency in agriculture, achieve economies of scale, and increase the income and welfare level of farmers, we will establish "Agricultural Production and Trade Zones" based on the right of overuse.
We will develop and support a regional and cooperative-based production and trade model that includes enterprise agglomeration.
Within the scope of this model, we will establish an "Agricultural Production Decision Support System" to establish the necessary cooperation and infrastructure for: - Planning and management of land and production, - Supervision of soil, water and product safety, - Use of high technology, - Management of input and stock costs, - Logistics, marketing and sales system.
We will implement, monitor and evaluate all supports and incentives through this system.
Until this model is put into practice, we will expand the tax exemption rates for small farmers.
We will establish an "Agricultural Production and Trade Authority Presidency".
INCOME AND WELL-BEING OF FARMERS
WE WILL ENABLE TURKEY TO BE A SELF-SUFFICIENT COUNTRY IN AGRICULTURE AND LIVESTOCK IN 5 YEARS.
179- We will ensure that our farmers use diesel at a 50% discount.
We will give 50% discount on diesel fuel used by farmers.
We will benefit from this opportunity for farmers who are registered in the Farmer Registration System and are actually in production.
180- We will provide business management trainings to farmers through İŞKUR.
We will create training programs in the fields of management and finance in cooperation with İŞKUR in order to eliminate the lack of technical and economic management knowledge of farmers in both animal and plant production.
181- We will establish a Farmer Call Center.
We will respond to the problems of our farmers regarding crop production and animal husbandry, we will establish a call center where experts (agricultural engineers, veterinarians, etc.) will provide services.
We will create this center to answer the questions of our farmers on issues such as information on agriculture and animal husbandry, agricultural production supports, agricultural investment and grant supports, meteorological data, agricultural input product information and 2B land law.
182- We will return water usage rights to irrigation unions.
We will cancel the articles of the law that privatize the right to use the agricultural irrigation water of our farmers and liquidate the Irrigation Unions, we will return the water usage rights to our farmers.
We will reduce the loss and leakage rate in agricultural irrigation water.
We will introduce support models for the use of electricity used by Irrigation Unions with renewable energy technologies.
183- We will give village status again to the villages in the rural areas of metropolitan cities that were transformed into neighborhoods.
We will cancel the relevant articles of the Metropolitan Law that allow the collection of real estate, environment-cleaning taxes, contributions for infrastructure services, license and permit fees due to the villages within the metropolitan borders becoming neighborhoods, and we will restore the former village status of rural neighborhoods established according to Law No. 6360.
184- We will transfer pastures to village legal entities and ensure the rehabilitation of pastures.
With the amendment we will make to the Metropolitan Law, we will transfer the pastures, pastures and winter pastures back to village legal entities.
We will cancel the legal regulations that destroy the right of use of pastures by village legal entities, which is the basis of our policy of developing and sustaining animal husbandry, and we will ensure the rehabilitation of pastures.
185- We will make production planning based on geographical indication for products of strategic importance for Turkey's agriculture and food industry, and protect the rights of producers.
We will protect the rights of producers by making geographical sign-based product and region-based medium-term production plans in cooperation with our farmers for agricultural products that are strategic in terms of the amount of production and exports and the number of farmers they affect.
We will increase the productivity of agricultural products such as hazelnut, apricot, grape, cotton, tobacco, sugar beet and fodder crops, which are of strategic importance for our country's agriculture and food industry, by developing their production areas, we will create support policies and we will make legal arrangements to prevent monopolization that may arise during the processing and marketing of these products.
186- We will not touch the water and soil of our farmers.
With Law No. 7139, we will review the powers given to DSİ regarding Land Consolidation works and transactions, and we will develop appropriate institutional structuring and implementation models to maximize agricultural production, increase productivity and protect farmers.
187- We will restructure the debts of our farmers in legal proceedings without interest.
We will restructure the debts of our farmers, who are overwhelmed under the burden of debt, without interest and spread them over long terms.
188- We will activate product exchanges.
We will support the Commodity Exchanges, which have an important function in product marketing and the formation of product prices.
TRANSITION TO ECONOMIES OF SCALE IN AGRICULTURE
189- We will encourage animal production by expanding Organized Livestock Zones.
We will make Turkey a "self-sufficient country in the production of meat and meat products" and solve the "Imported Meat Problem".
We will reorganize the Organized Livestock Zones and we will carry out enterprise consolidation in animal husbandry.
Within the scope of this practice, we will ensure that the costs of small-scale livestock farms are reduced by ensuring the consolidation of livestock farms around pasture and fodder crops cultivation areas with the supervision and support of the state.
We will make Turkey "a self-sufficient country in the production of meat and meat products" and solve the "Imported Meat Problem".
190- We will cancel the sale of sugar factories.
We will restructure TÜRKŞEKER.
We will support beet production.
We will reduce the quotas for Starch-Based Sugar (NBŞ-NES).
We will direct the activities of sugar factories within the scope of privatization according to their efficiency and business qualities, and cancel the sale transactions of sugar factories that have been privatized recently.
We will reduce Starch-Based Sugar (NBŞ-NES) quotas and ensure that they are in line with the rates in EU countries.
191- We will realize the Turkey Integrated Water Project.
Within the scope of the Turkey Integrated Water Project, we will switch to a basin-based irrigation model.
With this model, we will first rehabilitate water basins and prevent the loss due to evaporation during water transportation and storage.
We will ensure piped water transportation from water basins to arid plains.
We will abolish open type irrigation canals and replace them with underground irrigation canals.
192- We will transform Turkey into an Agricultural Basin.
We will make Turkey the first in Europe in Medicinal and Aromatic Plant production.
We will make Turkey the world's leading export center for fruits, vegetables and their processed products.
To this end, we will establish 5,000 orchards and vineyard plantations of at least 2 hectares each in the first 5 years.
We will support the production of medicinal and aromatic plants.
We will strengthen the forward linkages of agricultural products with high value-added sectors.
We will make Turkey the number 1 center of Europe in Medicinal and Aromatic Plants that will provide input to the Pharmaceutical and Cosmetic Industry.
193- We will provide support to our Young Farmers for the utilization of unproductive treasury lands.
We will transfer land within the scope of land reform suitable for agriculture, registered or unregistered in the name of the Treasury, to young agricultural entrepreneurs who will implement projects suitable for economies of scale for a period of at least 15 years, free of charge.
FOOD SAFETY
194- We will restructure the Food and Beverage Sector within the framework of an ecosystem approach, guarantee food supply security and reduce food inflation.
We will bring down food prices.
We will prepare a food logistics master plan that will oversee the integration of agriculture and food industry, and we will reduce food inflation by reviewing the market system and value chain.
In order to ensure access to sufficient quantity and quality raw materials in a sustainable manner, we will implement agricultural and livestock supports that take into account productivity and industry needs, and we will conduct impact analyses of support policies.
195- We will make penalties deterrent to ensure food safety.
We will make the inspection system more frequent and more qualified.
The penalties to be imposed on real/legal persons who act in a way that puts food safety at risk will not only include financial sanctions, but we will also ban the real person who committed the offense or, if it is a legal entity, all of its partners and responsible managers from the sector for a certain period of time depending on the nature of the offense.
We will make the "Food Inspectorate System" effective, which will ensure that food control and inspection activities are carried out properly and in a timely manner in order to protect the food safety of the consumer in the process that food follows from the field to the table
196-We will eliminate the unconscious use of antibiotics in animal production.
We will eliminate the unconscious use of antibiotics in animal production with the cooperation of relevant public, private sector and non-governmental organizations and with a coordination board to be established in this field.
TOURISM
197- We will make Turkey among the top 5 countries in the world in terms of number of tourists and tourism revenues.
At the end of 5 years, we will generate $45 billion in annual tourism revenues.
We will rank Turkey among the top 5 countries in the international tourism market in terms of tourists and revenues.
At the end of 5 years, we will generate $45 billion in annual tourism revenues.
We will create private sector opportunities and business models to make our historical, cultural and archaeological values known, visible and promotable.
198- We will prepare a National Tourism Strategy document for the tourism sector in cooperation with the public and private sectors.
We will restructure the tourism sector with the public sector setting, coordinating, supporting and supervising strategies, and the private sector planning and realizing investments in line with these strategies and establishing its own internal control mechanisms.
We will take into account the tourism life cycle and carrying capacity in the development of existing destinations and the identification of new destinations, and we will carry out the necessary legislative work in this regard.
We will set targets on a destination basis, taking into account the tourism life cycle and carrying capacities.
We will emphasize the promotion of destinations instead of country promotion
199- We will establish a High Council for Tourism and a Tourism Development Fund.
We will establish a "High Council for Tourism", which will include representatives of the Ministry of Culture and Tourism and private sector unions, and we will ensure that political, structural and financial problems are resolved legally and economically at the highest level, as well as the creation of a National Tourism Strategy.
200- We will implement Regional Tourism Master Plans.
We will implement the DAP and GAP Tourism Master Plans.
We will implement implementation plans to open the natural, cultural and faith tourism resources in Eastern Anatolia and Southeastern Anatolia to tourism.
We will implement the Eastern Mediterranean Tourism Master Plan.
We will create a new "tourism desti'nation" with coastal, winter, thermal, faith, plateau, nature and yacht tourism that envisages 100,000 tourism beds by making an "Eastern Mediterranean Tourism Master Plan" covering the coastal band from Gazipaş to Samandağı.
201- We will revitalize the Aegean destination.
We will reconsider the Aegean desti'nation with a focus on Izmir, Aydın and Muğla, and we will ensure that the tourism resources of İnciralti and Balçova, which are included in the urban planning of the city of Izmir, are revitalized with incentives by completing the comprehensive planning of thermal-health-entertainment.
We will realize the resources of religious tourism, the idle Pamucak tourism destinations, and the tourism potentials of Bozcaada-Gökçeada.
202-We will encourage congress and fair tourism.
With our peace and tranquility policy and the special incentives we will implement, we will revive the declining congress and fair tourism and ensure that tourism is spread over 12 months.
203- We will prepare a Youth and Science Tourism Strategy, which will generate an annual income of 5 billion TL.
We will make Turkey a Youth and Science Tourism Center.
To realize this goal, we will attract 200 thousand foreign students to Turkish Universities within 5 years.
We will transform Turkey into a regional education hub in the world.
With E-Learning platforms, we will offer multilingual, diploma accredited Distance University options to the international education market.
In the long term, we will reach our target of 1 million students.
We will create tourism programs targeting youth.
We will use TIKA funds in these programs to promote Turkey, increase tourism revenues and in line with our soft power strategy.
204- We will develop yacht and cruise tourism.
We will implement an action plan for the development of yacht tourism.
We will revitalize cruise tourism.
In order to develop maritime tourism, we will increase the yacht mooring capacity of our country by providing the necessary facilities to the private sector as the state in the construction of marinas.
We will ensure the development of passenger transportation by sea by carrying out necessary infrastructure works, we will build cruise ports in suitable areas where cruise ships can dock in terms of maritime and cultural tourism on our coasts.
205- We will encourage Health Tourism.
We will generate $20 billion in Health Tourism revenues annually.
We will utilize Turkey's potential in the field of health tourism, develop capacity in thermal tourism, treatment services, geriatrics services (patient and elderly care) tourism, and increase tourism revenues.
We will provide legal, financial, administrative and political support to national and international health tourism initiatives in order for Turkey to reach its annual target of 20 billion dollars in health tourism.
206- We will make Turkey an important destination in Gastronomy tourism.
In order to take part in the new trend gastronomy tourism in the world and to create our own brand, we will ensure that we take part in gastronomy tourism by creating a unique starding model by determining the principles of training personnel, quality and kanti'te by making the necessary planning.
207- In order to revitalize domestic tourism, we will bring the idle second residences of our citizens in tourism regions to tourism.
We will make the necessary legal and administrative arrangements to utilize the idle second housing resources in the country's economy for tourism purposes, and we will implement a project to utilize them with a sharing model using the urban transformation model as an example.
ENERGY and MINING
ENERGY POLICIES
208- We will harmonize our energy policies with EU energy policies.
We will harmonize our energy policies with EU energy policies.
While formulating energy policies, we will prioritize domestic and renewable resources, increase the diversity of supply, and adopt a policy of interdependence to reduce external dependence in energy.
209- We will encourage energy companies to go public.
We will support the public offering of energy production and distribution companies as a state policy.
210- We will encourage generation and distribution companies to engage in R&D activities.
We will encourage energy production and distribution companies to engage in R&D activities and support R&D activities and R&D employment in these companies that aim to increase efficiency in production and distribution infrastructure.
We will establish R&D and incubation centers within sustainable centers of excellence (SMM) to develop technologies used in energy production and distribution.
211- We will give priority in incentive practices to enterprises producing energy technologies.
We will ensure that Turkey becomes a terminal country that enables energy transit between energy-producing and energy-consuming countries, as well as having a high value-added energy technology production and infrastructure.
We will prioritize businesses that produce energy technologies.
For large-scale investments in production infrastructure, we will establish factories through the PPP model when necessary, and ensure that the public sector takes the lead in R&D production in strategic and critical energy technologies.
We will pave the way for the private sector in this field.
212- We will activate the regulatory and supervisory role of the state in energy markets.
We will review the regulatory framework and align with the EU acquis.
We will activate the regulatory and supervisory role of the state.
We will observe the public interest in the supervision of sector players, especially energy distribution companies.
213- We will redesign the institutional structure of the state regarding the energy sector.
We will simplify bureaucratic processes.
We will redesign energy institutions according to the needs of the age, simplify bureaucratic processes, and eliminate multiple permission/approval processes.
We will effectively realize the country's strategic and critical infrastructure projects related to electricity, natural gas and oil transmission lines.
214- We will establish an Energy Technologies Research University.
We will establish an "Energy Technologies Research University", which will offer master's, doctoral and post-doctoral research opportunities to Turkish and international students in order to carry out research, technology development and innovation activities exclusively in the field of energy and to strengthen Turkey's research infrastructure on energy technologies.
With the new university, we will work in close cooperation with equivalent research universities around the world and implement academic staff and student exchange programs.
215- We will provide cheap and high quality electricity to consumers by reducing electricity loss and theft rates.
Our goal is to provide quality, timely, adequate, cheap and uninterrupted supply of electrical energy to the user.
In our country, 15% of the electricity generated is wasted due to transmission and distribution losses and illegal use.
We will renew transmission and distribution lines to increase efficiency and reduce loss and leakage rates.
We will adopt a more effective fight against illegal electricity use.
We will reduce the loss and leakage rate to 6% in OECD countries.
216- We will solve substation capacity problems.
We will solve the problem of substation capacities, which is one of the biggest obstacles for entrepreneurs who want to generate electricity, by increasing coordination between regional distribution companies and state institutions and ensuring the necessary capacities.
217- We will establish biofuel-based energy production centers.
By establishing biofuel energy production centers, we will ensure the effective use of urban and rural waste in electricity generation.
We will support the private sector, municipalities and relevant institutions that will operate for this purpose.
218- We will implement a pilot project to meet the need for heating and hot water in residential centers with a cogeneration system.
We will implement a pilot project to meet the need for heating and hot water with a cogeneration system in residential centers.
If the project is successful, we will prepare an action plan for its expansion in appropriate settlements.
We will meet citizens' need for cheap and uninterrupted heating and hot water by establishing cogeneration systems especially in newly established settlement centers, thus ensuring more efficient and cost-effective use of energy resources.
219- In order to ensure security of supply in natural gas, we will diversify resources and revise natural gas policies.
We will build LNG terminals.
In order to ensure security of supply in natural gas, we will diversify sources and revise natural gas policies in line with the needs of the day.
We will develop free market conditions for natural gas, increase storage capacity, improve the transmission network, and realize new pipeline projects.
We will review existing gas agreements in line with the country's interests and energy strategy, and we will take the necessary initiatives to revise these agreements with a view to diversifying resources and ensuring cheap gas supply.
We will increase natural gas storage facilities.
The high dependence on a single country for natural gas supply needs to be reduced.
For supply security, we will aim for cheap gas supply through diversification of agreements and sources.
Increasing the capacity of LNG (liquefied natural gas) conversion facilities is of great importance for security of supply and resource diversification.
In this context, we will prioritize increasing the share of LNG in total natural gas supply.
We will establish LNG import terminals.
220- We will strengthen the free market mechanism in electricity and natural gas and limit public intervention.
, except for energy market activities where competition is not fully or sufficiently established and measures to ensure security of supply.
We will limit direct or indirect public intervention in electricity and natural gas price formation
We will ensure the formation of natural gas prices in the competitive market under the supervision of EPİAŞ.
221- We will gradually reduce electricity generation from natural gas.
We will implement a roadmap for the transition to alternative sources.
We will limit the use of natural gas in industry, especially in electricity generation, and implement our roadmap for transition to alternative energy sources.
We will revise the secondary legislation regulating electricity generation from natural gas within the framework of supply security.
222- We will increase TPAO's exploration and production activities.
We will increase TPAO's exploration and production activities in terms of both budget and location, starting from the nearby geographies in Turkey and abroad, and make them effective.
We will prioritize exploration activities in the Eastern Mediterranean Basin and unconventional (Thrace, Batman, Şırnak, etc.) in cooperation with international sector players.
223- We will improve transportation via pipelines.
We will reorganize pipeline transportation activities in line with our national interests.
We will encourage the transportation of liquid and gaseous substances where transportation costs will be reduced and the transportation of flammable, combustible, harmful to the environment and human health by pipelines, and we will take the necessary legal measures.
224- We will effectively combat fuel smuggling.
We will effectively combat fuel smuggling.
We will intensify inspections at land borders and sea routes.
225- We will continue to identify our hydrocarbon resources.
We will continue to identify our hydrocarbon resources.
In the Black Sea, we will carry out exploration activities in maritime areas.
226- We will reduce taxes on fuel.
We will reduce high taxes on gasoline and diesel.
ENERGY EFFICIENCY
227- We will implement the Energy Efficiency Optimization Model.
We will implement the artificial intelligence-based Turkey Energy Optimization Model, which will enable Turkey to sustainably extract high economic value from domestic and imported natural energy resources and resources.
Thanks to artificial intelligence programming with the circular economic model we will implement, we will transform Turkey's infrastructure/superstructure planning in the field of energy and the job-generating potential of natural resources into economic output at the highest rate and continuously.
In this way, we will dynamically and knowledge-based determine the designs, capacities and locations of new energy/raw material production plants, and the policies on how natural resources and wastes will be utilized in these plants.
WE WILL ADJUST THE CLOCKS SO THAT OUR CHILDREN DO NOT GO TO SCHOOL IN THE DARK.
228- We will promote energy efficiency.
We will set energy efficiency targets for our cities.
We will gradually switch to efficient lighting systems.
We will create energy efficiency profiles of cities and set energy efficiency targets for our cities.
After a certain period of time, we will allocate additional resources to municipalities that are successful in terms of energy efficiency.
We will repeat this system periodically.
229- We will implement the Renewable Energy Transition Program.
We will implement the Renewable Energy Transition Program and increase the share of renewable energy in electricity generation to 18% in the first 5 years.
We will implement incentive mechanisms for the development and commercialization of new renewable energy technologies.
We will develop incentive mechanisms to invest in battery storage technologies to enable solar and wind power plants to act as baseload power plants.
We will carry out infrastructure studies and identify sites for offshore wind power plants.
We will launch a tender for the transfer of concession rights with all legal processes resolved.
230- We will support renewable energy production in homes and workplaces.
We will provide tax exemptions for residences and workplaces to generate energy from renewable energy sources for their own consumption.
231-We will oblige factories to comply with energy efficiency criteria.
We will accelerate change on energy efficiency.
We will oblige factories to comply with energy efficiency criteria.
MINING
232-We will revise the Mining Law and introduce special regulations for Strategic Mineral Resources.
By revising the Mining Law, we will pave the way especially for domestic mining investments.
We will identify our strategic mineral reserves and make special arrangements for these minerals.
233-We will increase value-added exports in marble.
We will give importance to metallic mining,
eliminate the lack of standards in the production of Turkish marbles, establish a cooperation platform between companies in the sector, encourage value-added exports to world markets by giving importance to R&D activities in production.
We will emphasize metallic mining (nickel, platinum, gold, copper, etc.) with new technologies, focus on rare earth elements and bring them into the economy.
CLIMATE CHANGE and ENVIRONMENT
234- In Public and Private Sector Investment Location Preferences, we will take into account the environmental impact of the investment and the consent of the local people.
We will take care not to disturb the ecological balance in Public and Private Sector Investment Location Preferences and we will obtain the consent of the citizens living in the region.
We will implement local action plans for the rehabilitation of areas where the ecological balance has deteriorated, particularly in the Ergene Basin.
We will require industrial organizations and municipalities that issue permits to contribute to the costs required for the implementation of these rehabilitation action plans.
235- We will prepare a Climate Change Adaptation Action Plan.
We will set targets to combat climate change according to its economic, social, geographical and natural impacts.
We will identify the economic and social impacts nationally and regionally.
We will prepare a national action plan integrated with industry, energy, agriculture, environment and education policies, investment incentives, foreign trade, local governments and regional development targets.
236- We will establish a Turkish Carbon Exchange.
We will establish a Turkish Carbon Exchange to prepare for global carbon markets and transition to a low carbon economy.
We will quota energy-intensive sectors, airlines, municipalities and renewable energy plants in this emissions trading system.
In this center, we will ensure cooperation and coordination between relevant public institutions and the business world, universities and civil society organizations.
We will enable the private sector to implement and disseminate the technologies needed for the transition to a low carbon economy.
We will expand the scope of financial support mechanisms.
237- We will make arrangements for areas that have lost their forest status.
We will reforest the areas excluded from forest boundaries due to loss of forest quality in order to protect the ecosystem.
We will prevent the destruction of new areas for private benefit and make deterrent arrangements.
238- We will launch an Afforestation Mobilization to protect the ecological balance and make unproductive forests productive.
In order to prevent environmental pollution, desertification and erosion with a sustainable Forest Management approach in ecological balance; we will carry out soil conservation and industrial afforestation works on a basin basis, we will make all unproductive forest lands productive.
We will ensure that every village that protects its forests will benefit from the forests within its borders.
239- We will support Industrial Afforestation.
We will support research on industrial afforestation and develop competence in wood products and new wood materials.
TRANSPORT and LOGISTICS
HIGHWAY
240- We will realize the project of "Fast, Cheap and Safe Transportation for All"
In order to establish a Fast and Safe Transportation System for Everyone and for Every Purse, we will address the irregularities and inadequacies in the current practices, review the plans and identify and implement "priority new projects" in accordance with the needs and resources of the country.
241- We will rapidly complete Critical and Unfinished Transportation Infrastructure Projects.
We will swiftly complete critical and unfinished transportation infrastructure projects.
In highways, we will eliminate the deficiencies of divided roads in 5 transportation corridors connecting east to west and 18 transportation corridors connecting north to south, and we will also increase the quality, safety and speed of transportation throughout the country by eliminating the deficiencies of our highway network on the main arteries.
242- We will reduce road and bridge tolls.
We will reduce the expensive tolls determined in foreign currency in Public Private Partnership Transportation projects to a reasonable level, we will put an end to the toll guarantee practice that reduces the quality of service and creates a serious burden on the public.
243- We will solve the problems of driver tradesmen and transporters.
We will prevent unfair competition.
We will solve the problems of the road transportation sector.
We will solve the problems of drivers and transporters to prevent unfair competition.
We will reduce the high fees charged for "K" certificates in transportation to a reasonable level.
We will make the necessary diplomatic initiatives for the problems faced by the road transportation sector in domestic inspections, reduction of the high fees charged in transit transits abroad, shortening the transit times, etc. We will make the necessary diplomatic initiatives for the problems of foreign origin.
RAILWAY
244- We will weave Turkey with iron nets.
Railways will be our priority.
We will connect OIZs and ports with railways.
We will reduce transportation costs.
We will eliminate the infrastructure deficiencies in the connection of the railways to the main axes from east to west, from north to south, but we will elaborate the projects at the final project level and tender them, and we will prevent them from being open-ended projects that last for years in terms of construction and cost.
We will ensure the renewal of the sections of our existing railway lines that have not been upgraded and we will identify the electrification and signaling deficiencies and complete them in order of priority.
We will establish port-road-rail connections for the development of logistics integrated transportation.
We will subsidize rail container transportation to encourage freight transportation by rail.
In this context, we will renew the railway track leasing legislation.
We will take necessary measures and make necessary arrangements to increase the share of railway transportation in total transportation to 15% in freight transportation and 10% in passenger transportation.
In this framework, we will build connection roads between the main railway lines and OIZs, especially to increase freight transportation.
By procuring faster and more efficient locomotives, we will reduce freight transportation times.
We will increase the number of logistics villages under construction and completed on the railways and ensure their connection with ports and airline transportation.
245- We will rapidly complete High Speed Train Projects.
We will ensure that the Ankara-Sivas HSR project, for which construction work is ongoing, is completed within the projected project timeframe.
We will ensure the completion of the Polatlı- Afyonkarahisar HSR project, the construction works of which are ongoing, within the project period envisaged for the Ankara-İzmir HSR project, and we will start the construction of Afyonkarahisar-Uşak, Uşak-İzmir.
246- We will promote national technology in railways.
We will rapidly increase the share of domestic production by providing R&D and investment incentive support to TCDD subsidiaries TÜLOMSAŞ, TÜVESAŞ and TÜDEMSAŞ and competent private sector organizations for the development of railway technology.
AIRLINE
247- We will develop air transportation.
We will eliminate the infrastructure deficiencies preventing the development of air transportation.
We will make the necessary arrangements for the establishment of a competitive market in air transportation enterprises at international civil aviation standards.
We will encourage local and international transportation to the airports in the tourism regions of our country, and by introducing incentive practices, we will ensure that both tourism capacity and air transportation capacity are used at the highest level.
We will give importance and priority to air transport investments, logistics center projects and connections that support multimodal transportation.
248- We will make the air transportation market competitive.
We will take the necessary legal measures to increase the share of the private sector in air transportation and to create a competitive air transportation market in line with international civil aviation standards.
SHIPPING
249- We will prepare a Coastal Structures Master Plan.
In order to benefit from maritime transportation at the highest level, we will update the Coastal Structures Master Plan, free port management and investments from the current disorganized and arbitrary structure, and make the necessary legal arrangements in a transparent and auditable manner that will meet the needs of the country and citizens.
250- We will increase the share of cabotage line transportation.
We will take necessary measures to increase the share of cabotage error transportation in maritime transportation, both passenger and freight transportation.
251- We will immediately solve the infrastructure problems of ports.
We will complete the Çandarlı and Filyos Ports.
In order to get more share from international transit transportation, we will ensure that Turkish companies get more share from international transportation by eliminating basic infrastructure deficiencies such as transshipment port and hub port berths, breakwaters, backfields and modern equipment.
In this context, we will complete the Çandarlı Port in the Aegean and the Filyos port in the Black Sea.
252- We will encourage the shipbuilding sector.
The competitiveness of the shipbuilding sector is limited due to high credit costs in project financing, and the sector cannot benefit from incentive practices at an adequate level.
We will include the shipbuilding sector within the scope of collateral support, and we will establish an effective support mechanism by addressing the sector within the framework of an ecosystem approach.
By improving maritime and seafarer training, we will ensure that our trained seafarers and mariners find employment opportunities in domestic and international fleets.
253- We will support R&D activities in the shipbuilding industry.
We will ensure the development of national technology by supporting R&D activities in the shipbuilding industry and shipyards.
254- We will improve the physical infrastructure of our shipyards.
It is a fact that our shipbuilding industry has so far only made investments in the physical structure of shipyards and most of them are idle.
We will support the sector with project incentives to mobilize this idle capacity and ensure that it generates added value for our economy through increased employment and exports.
255- We will improve the infrastructure of fishing harbors and eliminate their deficiencies.
Due to the lack of adequate infrastructure services for our fishermen in our ongoing and existing fishing shelters, we will support the fishing sector and fishermen by building cold storage and recreational facilities in our fishing shelters.
TRANSITION TO KNOWLEDGE ECONOMY
RESEARCH and DEVELOPMENT
256- We will implement the Local Research and Development Infrastructures Program.
We will open new R&D centers prioritizing local needs.
Relatively small local economies cannot benefit from R&D infrastructures, which are concentrated in only 3 metropolitan cities in Turkey.
New R&D centers will be opened within the technology development zones of that province to meet local needs.
257- We will support R&D activities in Aviation and Space Projects.
In order to increase the share of domestic production in aviation and space technologies, we will ensure the development of the domestic industry by making necessary arrangements such as R&D and investment support.
258- We will expand Technology Transfer Offices.
We will make Technology Transfer Offices widespread; we will reconstruct their job descriptions in a way to establish a bridge between companies in Technology Development Zones and enterprises in Organized Industrial Zones.
259- We will implement the Defense Industry Strategic Technologies Support Program, which will reduce foreign dependency in the fields of Strategic and Critical Technologies in the Defense Industry.
We will reduce foreign dependency in strategic and critical technology areas in the Defense Industry.
We will implement the Defense Industry Strategic Technologies Support Program, support Research and Development activities, and encourage domestic defense industry enterprises to be globally competitive.
260- We will restructure TÜBİTAK.
We will review the institutional structure in this field in order to develop science, improve R&D activities, develop technology and ensure that innovation permeates economic and social life in Turkey.
We will remove the tutelage of TÜBİTAK over science and R&D.
We will support projects, not individuals.
By establishing a more effective supervision and guidance mechanism within TÜBİTAK, we will ensure that the resources provided are used more efficiently and prevent abuses.
261- We will increase Turkey's share of GDP allocated to R&D to 3%.
We will raise the share of R&D expenditures in Turkey's GDP above the OECD average.
We will realize an advanced technology transformation in Turkey within 5 years.
We will accelerate and give importance to R&D and patent studies in private and public institutions, laboratories and technology centers of TUBITAK, TUBA and universities.
262- We will prioritize R&D activities in Artificial Intelligence and Robot Technologies.
We will realize all legal, administrative and technological arrangements to ensure that developments in the field of information technologies based on artificial intelligence and cyber-physical systems have a strong infrastructure in our country.
263- We will support Turkish technology companies to integrate and cooperate with global business ecosystems.
We will ensure that technology producing individuals, institutions and companies increase their cooperation with central and global technology centers in countries such as the USA, Germany, China and the UK.
We will create long-term financing sources for strategic mergers, acquisitions and technology transfers to increase technological competence.
264- We will implement the Advanced Technology Support Program
We will implement the Advanced Technology Support Program.
We will provide special incentives for large-scale investments in semiconductor production and the development of critical technologies, battery technologies, biotechnology, unmanned air-land-sea vehicles, material sciences, mechatronics and robotics, micro-electronics and mechanical systems, nanotechnology, gaming software and hardware, wind and solar energy technologies, sensor technologies, cyber security, communication devices, recording-chain, artificial intelligence and wireless technologies.
265- We will revise the Technology Development Zones system and establish specialized "Advanced Technology Valleys" in all metropolitan cities.
We will review the Technology Development Zones system and ensure specialization.
We will establish specialized "Advanced Technology Valleys" in all metropolitan cities.
With these specialized valleys, we will enable local economies to compete in the global market.
TURKISH STARS PROGRAM
266- We will implement the Turkish Stars Program and support enterprises with high export potential in innovative and high value-added products.
In each program year, we will guide the development of up to 20 companies between the ages of 2-5, which are evaluated to have the potential to open up to international markets with new and competitive products, under the "Turkish Star" label for 3 years (with a 1-year extension) and provide appropriate support under the program management.
As an acceptance criterion for the program, we will ask the company to have defined new markets/new products as a target and to have prepared activities for this target in the form of a business plan.
The relevant business plan will be evaluated by an acceptance committee for the program and the most suitable companies will be accepted to the program.
We will take care to create a complementary portfolio of companies by taking into account the activities of other companies currently supported in the program in the admission decisions.
We will also provide company-focused support (consultancy, guidance and coaching, etc.) and project-focused support (product development, design, etc.).
We will assign a "development officer" to each company involved in the program, and ensure that the development officer is responsible for monitoring and reporting on the implementation of the company's entire business plan.
Likewise, the program management will monitor the companies that graduate from the program, evaluate the effectiveness of the program and the validity of the evaluation criteria, and take necessary measures for improvement.
information and communication technologies
267-We will encourage young people interested in software to develop mobile applications and games.
By encouraging young people interested in software to develop mobile applications and games, we will make mobile application and game revenues an important source of exports.
For this purpose, we will define the status of independent developer and provide tax incentives (such as zero tax), app market deduction subvention, promotion support to developers who register for this status, enabling them to have a say in the world markets and make a significant foreign currency inflow to Turkey.
This status will not only provide a fast and secure entry into entrepreneurship for our young people, but will also contribute to a more comfortable and self-confident student life with the additional income they will earn.
268- We will increase Turkey's fiberoptic communication network infrastructure to 1 million kilometers.
We will develop the necessary infrastructure in the telecom sector with new investments for Turkey to have broadband and high-speed internet.
We will prioritize investments in the development and expansion of communication infrastructure at national and international level, including satellite, broadband-high speed telecommunication lines, base stations and terminals.
We will carry out institutional restructuring to improve the existing 280 thousand kilometers of fiberoptic communication infrastructure.
We will ensure cost-effectiveness in the communication infrastructure required for fast internet access.
We will provide faster and cheaper internet access to our citizens.
269- We will make Turkey an Internet Exchange Point, we will enable international internet companies to invest in Turkey, we will increase Turkey's international internet access speed.
By taking advantage of Turkey's geographical location, we will become the exchange point (hub) for internet traffic in the world.
We will make Istanbul an internet hub, encourage international ICT companies to invest in Turkey, enable the world's leading e-content platforms to establish bases in Turkey, and accelerate Turkey's international internet access.
At the Istanbul Internet exchange point, we will provide a secure platform for all Telecom Operators and Internet service providers operating in Turkey for their overseas communication outlets.
270- We will train human resources in the field of "Cyber Security".
We will support the production of Cyber Security technologies.
We will first establish Cyber Security Technology Networks in Istanbul, Ankara and Izmir We will open Cyber-Security master's degree programs in engineering faculties.
We will support the development and production of cyber security technologies.
271- We will increase information literacy.
We will provide basic e-Government Services training to our citizens who request it, outside working hours at the nearest schools.
We will take the necessary measures to increase qualified manpower resources in the field of information and communication technologies and to ensure the process of adaptation to e-transformation by expanding the information literacy of our people.
We will provide basic e-Government Services training to our citizens who request it, outside working hours at the nearest schools.
BRAIN MIGRATION
272- We will implement the Brain Power Program.
We will create opportunities for our scientists living abroad to continue their scientific research in Turkey and we will support reverse brain drain and become a brain power.
We will make Turkey a center of attraction for world-class foreign researchers, international students and international faculty.
We will encourage brain transfer to ensure Turkey's positioning in the global economy and technology ecosystem.
ENTREPRENEURSHIP
273- We will encourage entrepreneurship and place it at the center of development policies.
We will encourage entrepreneurship at all ages.
We will make entrepreneurship a key element of local economic policies.
In this context, we will provide trainings on business planning, financial and IT literacy, vocational training, technical, administrative and financial analysis, etc.
274- We will implement the Internet and Technology Entrepreneurship Support Program.
In order to develop Internet and Technology Entrepreneurship, we will provide support in two stages: Mentoring and Cash.
We will include applied internet entrepreneurship courses in the education curriculum.
We will develop angel investing and mentoring networks.
We will organize promotional events for young people across the country through successful entrepreneurs who will serve as role models.
We will organize competitions for entrepreneurship projects and reward individuals and companies that have been successful in this field.
We will ensure that courses and seminars on internet entrepreneurship at universities are taught by consultants who are experts in the field of entrepreneurship.
We will launch the Internet and Technology Entrepreneurship Support Program.
We will prepare the necessary legislative infrastructure and put it into practice.
We will encourage public and private sector organizations to work with local technology startups, and we will take measures to make it easier for entrepreneurs to find customers at an early stage and grow rapidly.
We will ensure that legal ground improvements are made to eliminate the difficulties experienced by early-stage technology investors and entrepreneurs in their investment processes and that the deficiencies in the Turkish Commercial Code are eliminated.
275-We will facilitate entrepreneurs' access to foreign markets.
We will design and implement mechanisms to facilitate and support entrepreneurs to expand into foreign markets.
We will enable Turkish entrepreneurs to expand into foreign markets, foreign companies to get to know Turkish companies, establish business partnerships and ensure Turkey's active participation in the international technology ecosystem, and we will establish structures and organizations for this purpose.
We will design differentiated programs on a regional basis to develop the capacity of enterprises in areas such as technology, management, export skills, internationalization, export increase, new product development, R&D and Patent processes, Branding, Marketing, ERP usage, Business Plan Development, B2B, etc. and provide the necessary support in this regard.
GOOD EDUCATION, GOOD FUTURE
EDUCATION POLICIES
276- We will bring Turkey to its rightful place in International Education Rankings.
We will aim for the top 20 in the PISA rankings.
We will ensure that 5 Turkish universities are among the top 100 universities in the world.
We will ensure that Turkey will be among the top 20 countries in the PISA index in primary and secondary education within the first 5 years, and that Turkey will be among the top 500 universities in the world in higher education with 5 universities in the top 100 and 30 universities in the top 500.
We will raise the quality of education and research, scientific productivity, competitiveness within the country and with international stakeholders, and the capacity of Turkish universities to respond to the needs of society to the desired level.
In this framework, we will endeavor to bring our faculty members who have proven their success in important universities abroad to our universities through reverse brain drain.
277- We will determine Education Policies within the framework of good governance principles.
With the Social Dialogue in Education mechanism, we will make the stakeholders of the education system active in determining education policies.
We will restructure the Board of Education.
We will create Vocational Education Programs in accordance with the needs of the day and the demands of the economy.
278- We will create the education curriculum in order for students to acquire analytical skills, productive and innovative competencies.
We will develop our students' ability to think creatively, freely, critically, live and work together.
We will strive to raise students as "good people" who have problem solving, research, inquiry, effective use of technology and entrepreneurship skills, analysis, evaluation and synthesis competencies and national values, and who are sensitive to human rights, nature and the environment.
We will rewrite textbooks in line with the founding philosophy of the Republic, based on the principle of unity of education.
We will eliminate curriculum anarchy, we will add modern skills to the curriculum.
The curriculum will be designed to help students acquire analytical skills, productive and innovative competencies.
We will move from a knowledge and acquisition-oriented structure to a skills-oriented, creative and inquisitive structure.
We will ensure the creation and implementation of a human-oriented education philosophy.
We will reorganize the jigsaw puzzle of the curriculum and exam system in primary and high schools.
Upon completion of primary education, we will ensure that our children are directed to technical, vocational, health, social and science high schools according to their talents, interests and areas of development.
279- We will increase the resources allocated to education in both quantity and quality.
We will gradually increase the share of GDP allocated to education to international standards.
We will increase the share of quality-improving activities in resource allocations to education.
280- We will operationalize the guidance mechanism in schools.
We will cancel the Guidance Services Regulation dated November 10, 2017, which allows unqualified and out-of-branch people to provide guidance.
We will operationalize the guidance mechanism in schools.
With the student coaching system, we will work to keep students in education and training after school, first of all, we will start pilot applications and get the results.
We will increase the number of counselors in all basic education institutions.
We will cancel the Guidance Services Regulation of the Ministry of National Education published in the Official Gazette dated November 10, 2017 and numbered 30236, which causes new problems in the guidance system in schools and enables people without professional qualifications and out-of-branch people to provide guidance.
281- We will make pre-school and basic education compulsory; we will increase it to 13 years, with 1 year of pre-school and 12 years of basic education.
We will ensure access to education for the entire school-age population.
We will make pre-school and basic education compulsory, we will implement education as 1+5+3+4.
We will make the necessary efforts to increase the duration of education to 13 years, with 1 year of pre-school and 12 years of basic education.
282- We will increase the number of classrooms and expand student dormitories.
We will quickly end the practice of double teaching and merged classrooms and allocate resources to increase the number of classrooms.
We will expand student dormitories with modernized education and accommodation standards throughout the country, especially in the regions where they are needed.
283- We will establish Teacher Academies.
We will make a new start in teacher training by opening "Teacher Academies" where teachers who love their profession, who are well-trained in their fields, who know foreign languages to the extent that they can follow the world, who have internalized democratic values, arts and sports as a philosophy of life will be trained.
We will structure "Teacher Academies" to meet the needs of basic education levels and vocational and technical teachers.
We will implement policies to ensure that the most successful students prefer Teacher Academies.
284- We will put an end to the practice of contracted teaching, and we will recruit current contracted teachers to 4-A staff.
We will give 3600 additional indicators to our teachers.
We will make teaching a respected and attractive profession through academic, financial, social and administrative arrangements.
We will urgently solve the long-standing problems of teachers in terms of salaries, wages, social rights and pension rights.
We will put an end to the practice of contracted teaching, and we will recruit existing contracted teachers to 4-A staff.
285- We will ensure that unassigned teachers will be recruited or we will take additional measures for their participation in employment.
We will appoint unassigned teachers by taking into account the norm deficit, we will create new employment opportunities for those with excess norms, and we will encourage retirement.
We will allocate positions for teachers to work in non-formal education, lifelong learning and course centers.
We will support their participation in employment by directing them to vocational training courses for transition to different professions.
286- We will add skills courses such as software coding and financial literacy to the curriculum in basic education.
We will add basic computer programming, robotics, financial literacy, civics, oratory, hand skills and coding and programming courses to the curriculum at all levels starting from primary school.
287- We will encourage the development of our children in the fields of Art and Sports.
We will ensure that arts and sports are actively part of students' lives at all levels of education.
We will make sure that every student is interested in at least one branch of sport or art during compulsory education.
288- We will increase the number of Science and Technology High Schools and Anatolian High Schools emphasizing foreign language education.
We will emphasize the opening of Science and Technology High Schools and Anatolian High Schools offering certain courses in foreign languages.
289- We will increase scholarship and free boarding opportunities.
We will bring the state scholarship and free boarding opportunities for financially needy students to a level that meets the needs.
290- We will encourage students to participate in out-of-school activities to support their personal development.
We will increase the number of scientific, social and cultural spaces such as science centers, museums and botanical gardens and ensure their effective use as learning spaces.
291- We will take the necessary initiatives to provide elective Turkish and Culture courses for Turkish children living abroad.
We will increase other non-formal and formal education opportunities such as student exchange programs for Turkish children living abroad to preserve and develop their cultural identity.
In good relations and mutual understanding with the relevant countries, we will provide the necessary support for the teaching of the Social and Economic Structure of Turkey, History, Turkish and Turkish Culture as elective courses.
292- We will develop Lifelong Learning and non-formal education and support them through e-Learning Platforms.
We will ensure continuity in public education and support out-of-school educational and cultural activities.
With the understanding of lifelong learning, we will develop all kinds of non-formal education opportunities, including e-education, and we will make maximum efforts to ensure that all individuals gain skills and acquire a profession.
We will make lifelong education dominant, and we will train parents on child care and education with the "Every home will be a school" project.
We will provide guidance and counseling services to all children, especially parents, from pre-school onwards.
We will support our students' preparation for the exams they take throughout their entire education life.
We will develop e-Learning Platforms to support their education.
In this way, we will ensure that all our students can access the educational content required for the exams they are preparing for over the internet from anywhere in Turkey through these platforms.
We will open public education centers in rural areas to provide basic information and consultancy services that farmers and breeders need for transition to modern and organic agriculture and animal husbandry.
293- We will implement the Early Childhood Care and Education Program (ECCEP).
We will support the development of all children, starting with those with limited access to education.
We will implement an Early Childhood Care and Education Program (ECCEP).
We will provide health and nutrition support in humane conditions to families who have difficulty or cannot afford to provide for their needs, as well as opportunities to support the physical, emotional, cultural, artistic and cognitive development of each child.
We will provide pre-primary education staff and physical facilities by the state and encourage private schools and parent initiative cooperatives.
With the ECCEP, we will cover all children aged 24-60 months.
In this model, children will be limited to 24 -36 months (play group), 36-48 months, 48 -60 months and will receive education for 3 years.
OUR CHILDREN WILL NOT BE COLD. WE WILL BE A BETTER TURKEY WITH THE DREAMS OF OUR CHILDREN.
294- We will develop a Daycare Ecosystem Model.
We will start equal opportunity in the development of our children from pre-school.
We will develop a Nursery Ecosystem Model consisting of the state, private sector, NGOs, universities and local governments in order to make the nursery system widespread and accessible throughout the country.
Within the framework of this model, we will ensure equal opportunities for pre-school children to start their education life.
295- We will ensure access to education for disadvantaged children in need of special education.
We will ensure access to education for children in need of special education and disadvantaged children.
To this end, we will provide adequate physical facilities and equipment for education and training practices in line with the interests, needs and potential of students with disabilities.
We will provide an educational environment where children who need special education can continue their education without being isolated from society and their peers through integrative education.
296- We will implement our National Strategy on Education and Career Planning of Gifted Children.
The national strategy will be tailored to needs.
We will prioritize the employment needs of gifted individuals according to their characteristics.
We will closely monitor these individuals, starting from their educational stages.
We will support these children to benefit from education opportunities abroad.
We will cover all their education expenses.
We will make it possible to transfer to higher education institutions with different applications in line with their abilities.
We will follow gifted and talented children throughout their education and prepare them for the future.
We will ensure the integration of these students into programs to train scientists, artists and athletes.
297- We will encourage education initiatives of the private sector.
We will encourage private sector initiatives in education at all levels of education.
We will include non-governmental organizations with significant experience in the field of private education in the supervision and monitoring process in coordination with the Ministry units.
We will encourage the private sector to open schools in vocational education.
We will support international partnerships and technology transfers of such schools.
We will structure private education institutions as competitive and pioneering organizations that are ready to be audited with objective education criteria, that do not have purely commercial concerns, that are meticulous in matters such as teacher employment and student recruitment, and that are competitive and pioneering in terms of efficiency.
and the personal rights of working teachers will be taken under state guarantee.
298- We will abolish YÖK.
We will establish academic freedom.
We Will Realize Higher Education Reform.
More important than having many universities in terms of quantity is to make our universities qualified and strengthen them scientifically.
To this end, we will make legal and administrative arrangements to free our universities from political and ideological debates and transform them into internationally competitive "science centers".
We will plan higher education based on the principles of academic and scientific freedom, institutional autonomy, diversity, transparency, accountability, participation, competition and quality.
We will abolish the Higher Education Council.
We will restructure universities as research and teaching universities in line with national and regional needs.
We will put an end to uniform universityization; we will restructure faculties, colleges, institutes and research centers, departments and programs that provide education and training in a way that can compete with their stakeholders in developed countries.
We will encourage the specialization of universities to develop high value-added technology and train the necessary human resources.
299- We will not allow universities to be divided, we will reunite those divided by the current government.
We will not allow universities to be divided, we will reunite what the current government has divided.
We will eliminate all forms of political influence, pressure and restrictions on academic work and create a free and autonomous higher education eco-system for academic work, research and development activities and innovative initiatives.
300- We will ensure that universities prioritize the local socio-economic needs of the provinces in which they are located.
We will eliminate all political influence, pressure and restrictions on academic work.
We will create a free and autonomous higher education eco-system for academic studies, research and development activities and innovative initiatives.
We will ensure that universities prioritize the local socio-economic needs of their provinces.
301 - We will implement the Academic Youth Program.
We will implement the Academic Youth Program to identify students who have achieved outstanding success in academic, artistic, social responsibility, sports, etc. fields at the university and contact with schools both in Turkey and abroad so that the student can continue his/her academic studies after the end of the university.
We will select master's and doctoral students based on objective criteria and merit, and support them with scholarships, monitoring their performance throughout their studies through a centralized network.
We will enable undergraduate students to complete their final year of study abroad in schools with which the state has an agreement.
302- We will forgive the interest of young people who owe education loans.
We will provide high standard dormitory facilities for our youth.
We will provide young people with student loan debts the opportunity to restructure their debts without interest and with maturities of up to 60 months.
We will reorganize state dormitories to meet students' needs and living standards.
We will place every student who has earned the right to study at university and who applies for these dormitories.
We will increase the quotas to accommodate a maximum of two students in a room.
We will create an environment where no young person will have to wait in line for several months to get into a dormitory.
With this regulation, we will prevent the abuse of our young people and prevent them from taking advantage of impossibilities and victimization.
We will determine KYK's loans and scholarships according to the cost index of the cities.
In this way, we will eliminate the injustice arising from the equal amount of scholarships given to students studying in cities with different living costs.
HEALTHY SOCIETY
303- We will realize the GOODness Reform in Health.
We will eliminate multi-headedness in health management.
We will implement a comprehensive Health Reform.
We will reach World Health Organization (WHO) targets in health indicators.
We will completely reorganize the central and provincial structure of the Ministry of Health, whose basic structure and dynamics have been disrupted by an unrealistic approach.
The main elements of this reform are: Ministry of Health as planner and supervisor," General Health Insurance that brings everyone under one roof, ■Widespread, easily accessible and friendly health service system, ■Strengthened primary health care and family medicine, ■Effective, gradual referral chain, ■Health enterprises with administrative and financial autonomy,■Highly motivated health workforce equipped with knowledge and skills, ■Educational and scientific institutions to support the system, ■Quality and accreditation for quality and effective health services, ■Institutional structuring in rational drug and material management, ■Access to effective information in the decision-making process: Health information system.
We will completely redesign this restructuring away from personal references and political approaches, in the center of the needs of our country, within the framework of health realities, on the scale of competence and merit.
We will realize the necessary economic and managerial change to ensure quality and efficiency in hospitals.
In addition to the quality of health services, we will ensure that this quality is controlled, accredited and accessible.
We will prioritize quality, we will accredit, we will establish social trust, including regulations that will restore the seriousness and dignity of patients, physicians and other health personnel.
We will redefine the internal organization of the merged health institutions, redefining their roles, spheres of activity and authorities with a focus on health personnel and citizens, without relying on any fundamental regulation.
We will create a sociology of physicians who try to do the best for their patients and patients who respect their physicians.
We will transform healthcare organizations into reputable institutional structures where patients see their physicians and physicians see their patients as benefactors.
We will plan health institutions in a way that is easily accessible to everyone, and we will re-evaluate the City Hospitals that create problems in transportation and access.
We will be fair and equitable in health.
We will provide equal quality health care across the country.
We will redesign the health referral chain, we will build systems in which family physicians will work effectively, we will create systems that follow their patients in their region, monitor and supervise the treatment of their patients, and closely monitor their well-being.
In addition to early diagnosis and appropriate treatment, vaccination, drug protection, improved nutrition, health education, family planning, we will take all measures with the awareness that the most fundamental solution is to eliminate inequality in income distribution.
We will make Turkey reach the World Health Organization (WHO) targets in health indicators.
We will take all measures for the protection and treatment of maternal and child health caused by regional imbalances.
304- We will reduce VAT in Health to less than 5%.
We will abolish "compulsory service" for health personnel and introduce an incentive system.
We will reduce VAT on health to below five percent, as in EU countries.
We will abolish "compulsory service" for health personnel and introduce an incentive system.
305- We will reorganize "Family Health Centers" and expand secondary health centers.
We will strengthen the "Family Health Centers" that provide better quality primary health care services to our citizens, where diagnostic technologies are available, outpatient treatments can be performed, preventive health services are provided, and time-saving primary health care services are provided. We will
We will establish secondary health centers with sufficient number of specialist doctors, including Internal Medicine, General Surgery, Gynecology and Obstetrics, Obstetrics and Gynecology, Pediatrics, Radiologists, Biochemistry Specialists, which will ensure that health services are provided together and in integrity.
We will only provide preventive health services at the Public Health Centers.
We will ensure that preventive health services are fully under the control of the state and are continuous.
306- We will reorganize Medical Specialization Education and establish a Health Academy.
We will reorganize medical specialty education.
We will encourage Family Medicine as a specialty and train the required number of Family Physicians.
We will establish a Health Academy.
We will ensure that the academy is autonomous and develops health policies and projects.
307-We will not take the "examination and medicine co-payment" from pensioners.
We will abolish the "Performance System" for health personnel.
We will double the bare salaries of health workers, including in retirement.
We will not charge our pensioners "medical examination and medicine co-payments".
We will abolish the performance system that has deeply shaken the health system.
We will double the bare salaries of health workers, including in retirement.
With a new remuneration system, we will ensure that physicians and other health personnel provide the most efficient service in the system.
In this system, we will realize an arrangement in which the wages received are not only for the duration of employment, but also reflected in the pensions of health workers.
We will limit the number of patients that a physician can examine and intervene in polyclinics and other health services.
We will incentivize quality and detailed service in patient examination and abolish bedside examination and surgical performance.
308- We will modernize public hospitals.
We will reorganize the City Hospitals that have started operating with the understanding of regional specialized hospitals and in line with the needs, together with the borrowing contracts.
We will transform the operational City Hospitals into regional specialized hospitals in line with the needs.
Instead of huge structures where patients, visitors and health personnel get lost, we will transform them into widespread structures with the understanding of much more functional boutique health centers and specialized hospitals.
309- We will realize the e-Health System.
We will enable our citizens to track their health history through their Turkish ID numbers.
We will establish an e-Health System integrated with the e-Government system.
Within the framework of the lifelong health approach, our citizens will be able to track their health history through their Turkish ID numbers.
We will prevent the sharing of personal health information, which is within the scope of data privacy, except in emergencies and authorized medical personnel.
We will establish a Decision Support System that provides input to health policies according to demographic, social, economic and regional classifications through data mining.
310- We will expand Geriatrics (Elderly-Care) Health Centers.
For all services and health needs, we will never charge any service fee or contribution from the pockets of pensioners in need.
We will open Geriatric Health Centers where preventive health services, early diagnosis and treatment services will be provided.
311- We will strengthen University Hospitals and immediately end the practice of "Affiliation".
We will transform university hospitals into efficient academic institutions with defined qualifications and targets, with authority and managerial levels.
We will immediately put an end to the practice of "Affiliation", which is the joint use of the Ministry of Health and university hospitals, which deeply undermines hospital structuring and health service delivery, institutional belonging and managerial levels, and does not produce any useful output other than personal rivalry.
312- We will encourage the domestic "Medical Industry".
We will implement an R&D Program for Cancer and Cardiovascular Diseases.
We will develop the "Medical Medical Industry" for the R&D and production of domestic pharmaceuticals, serum, medical supplies, medical devices and vaccines, and encourage domestic production.
We will implement an exclusive R&D support program for the development of drugs and treatments for cancer and cardiovascular diseases.
313- We will include the costs of devices used in the diagnosis and treatment of children with type-1 diabetes within the scope of SSI.
We will include the payments of all technological devices used in the diagnosis and treatment of children with type-1 diabetes within the scope of Social Security.
314- We will reorganize the income test practice.
We will reorganize the income test application within the scope of general health insurance, we will not charge health insurance premiums from those in need, we will raise the age limit for premium payment obligation, and we will not charge premiums from the elderly.
SOCIAL POLICY, EQUAL and FAIR LIVING
SOLIDARITY FUND OF TURKEY
315- We will establish the Turkey Solidarity Fund, we will erase the debts of our citizens in difficult situations who meet the criteria.
In the first 100 days of our government, we will establish the Turkey Solidarity Fund.
With this Fund, we will buy the debts arising from consumer loans, credit cards and overdraft accounts of 5 million citizens whose debts were under legal follow-up or close follow-up as of April 30, 2018 and whose debts were sold to collection companies.
We will erase the debts of the minimum wage earners, the unemployed, the retired and the families of martyrs and veterans.
We will write off 80 percent of the debt of citizens who are relatively well-off.
The remaining 20 percent will be divided into 10-year installments.
We will not allow new loans to be taken out until the debt is paid off.
SOCIAL AID 316- We will restructure the Social Assistance System We will stop
governments from using misery and poverty as a social assistance policy.
We will reorganize social assistance as a social policy tool to reduce income inequality and meet the basic needs of disadvantaged groups in a way that encourages finding a job, not unemployment.
We will restructure the Social Assistance System by bringing it under a single roof.
We will transform it into a transparent and accountable structure that produces policies based on information.
317- We will establish an "Individual and Household-based Income Test System".
We will refer to this new system in the Social Assistance and Social Security System. ".
We will establish an Individual and Household-based Income Test System.
We will use this new system as a reference for the Social Assistance and Social Security System.
We will develop an Individual and Household Income Test system to determine the welfare differences between income groups, and we will urgently implement practices that will reduce the social gap (education, health, social activities, etc.) between lower income groups and upper income groups and regions.
318- With İYİ Card, we will provide non-cash transportation and food support to families without regular income with a regular salary.
With the İYİ KART application, we will provide regular cash income amounting to half of the monthly net minimum wage to families without regular income.
With this card, we will provide transportation and food support to the unemployed and their families without time limitations.
319- We will give retirees a "GOOD Holidays Bonus" of 1,500 TL
We will give retirees a "GOOD Holidays Bonus" of 1500 TL each twice a year on holidays.
320- We will implement the "Babies Will Be Fine Program"
We will establish a system to meet the food and basic needs of newborn children of needy families for up to 36 months.
321- For mothers with children in need of care, "Both Family,
We will implement "Both Work
We will introduce flexible working hours and premium payments for mothers with children in need of care in order to prevent their disengagement from work life and loss of labor force, and to increase their labor force participation rates and income levels.
We will organize job-guaranteed vocational training programs for these mothers.
322- We will make our low-income citizens homeowners.
Within the scope of TOKİ's duty to provide affordable housing to low-income citizens, we will give low-income citizens who want to own a house the opportunity to own a house without down payment and installments through the lease with purchase option method.
323- We will strengthen treatment and care services for citizens in need of care.
Within the framework of a new Social Service Program, we will expand state-provided treatment and care services and support for the needy, chronically ill and elderly.
324- We will reduce electricity bills in favor of the consumer and abolish the TRT share.
We will reorganize additional payments to reduce electricity bills and abolish the TRT share.
We will introduce an energy opti'mization model to prevent the loss of distribution companies.
We will ensure efficiency-oriented renewal in infrastructure.
325- We will increase employment of disadvantaged groups.
We will provide insurance premium support to employers for the employment of disabled people, victims of terrorism, ex-convicts, families of martyrs and veterans.
We will increase the quota of these citizens to 4% in workplaces employing 50 or more workers.
326- We will implement a household-based "Inflation Protection Program" for lower income groups.
In lower income groups, household income is mostly spent on shelter, food and transportation.
We will take measures to reduce household spending in these three areas.
To ensure that lower-income groups are less affected by food inflation, we will allocate individual and per-household food subsidies to those in need in cooperation with the private sector.
FAMILY
327- We will activate family counseling services.
We will improve pre-marital education and family counseling services in order to increase faith and trust in the family institution, strengthen the family and protect its peace and welfare.
To bring solutions to the problems of families,
We will establish "Family Counseling Centers" with specialized staff in every neighborhood, where women and children can receive information and legal support when they are subjected to violence.
These centers provide parent education that addresses local needs and whose results and impact are regularly measured,
We will organize awareness and information programs on reducing juvenile delinquency, drugs, etc.
328- We will reunite working mothers with their children.
We will make it compulsory for all public and large private sector organizations to establish nurseries and childcare centers.
We will observe Work-Life Balance.
We will make nurseries and childcare centers compulsory in all public and large private sector organizations.
We will ensure that parents and children are close to each other in the workplace.
We will eliminate the problems in the economic and social spheres and ensure the harmonization of family and work life.
In our country, which ranks last in work-life balance among OECD countries, we will work on a strategy to achieve a more humane work-life balance, and we will include
measures for family integrity and for children to spend more time with their mothers and fathers.
We will improve legal regulations on parents' flexible working hours and overtime practices.
CHILD
329- We will ensure that children benefit from all public services free of charge.
We will implement the "Child Strategy and Action Plan".
Education and
We will provide children with free access to all public services, especially health, improve their quality of life and secure their future.
Under the International Convention on the Rights of the Child, every human being is a child up to the age of eighteen, except "if he or she attains majority at an earlier age according to the law applicable to the child".
We will prevent the abuse of children by family and society and prevent them from working on the streets.
We will prepare the proposals of the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of the Child in line with the commitments made.
We will implement these purges in full through laws and regulations.
We will prevent children from ending up on the streets and getting involved in drugs.
We will ensure that those who have fallen into the streets are reintegrated into the family and society by increasing their housing, education, rehabilitation, vocational training, health and care opportunities.
We will prevent children from working in jobs that prevent them from living their childhood, diminish their potential and dignity, and are harmful to their physical and mental development.
330- We will restructure Child and Youth Centers.
Diversification and enhancement of services for low-income children and youth will be realized through Child and Youth Centers.
We will restructure Child and Youth Centers to reduce the intergenerational gap and ensure equal opportunities.
We will establish youth sports centers, at least one in each district, in cooperation with municipalities so that young people can carry out sports, social and cultural activities free of charge.
331- We will effectively combat child abuse.
The risks of neglect and abuse that children may face will be identified in advance with the guidance support programs and reinforcement staff that our education policies foresee, and we will solve the problems at the source by making timely interventions on the spot, without the need for demand or application.
We will establish individualized rehabilitation programs for children who have been dragged into crime or are victims of crime, according to their age, gender, type of victimization or being dragged into crime, and we will specialize the institutions providing services.
We will prioritize efforts to increase social awareness to prevent violence and all forms of abuse against our children, and we will impose severe penalties on those who commit these crimes.
YOUTH
332- We will encourage youth entrepreneurship and employment.
For young entrepreneurs who plan to establish a company or have already established a company within 2 years, we will provide 0-interest loans up to 100 thousand liras with a 5-year deferral if their projects and companies meet the necessary qualifications.
We will apply tax exemption for a certain period of time to companies established by young people and we will apply income tax exemption for companies that employ new young people.
333- We will establish a "Technical Personnel Training, Internship and Exchange Platform" to facilitate the entry of young people into the labor market.
We will establish a "Technical Personnel Training, Internship and Exchange Platform" that will work integrated with the National Labor Decision Support System in order to facilitate the entry of young people into the labor market and to increase their competencies and competencies for the information and technology needed by enterprises.
334- We will establish Talent Development and Career Centers for University Students and Graduates, we will add graduate employment among the success criteria of universities.
We will establish "Talent Development and Career Centers" where universities will serve students and graduates in addition to their education units.
The main task of these units will be career development and life coaching for students.
We will contribute to the development of skills and talents for our university-age youth with these units.
These centers will work in close cooperation with national and international career and human resources institutions, particularly İşkur.
In these centers, we will prepare students for the labor market and strive for graduates to join the workforce.
We will add graduate employment among the success criteria of universities.
Students will obtain basic vocational knowledge and skills from academic education, and market-relevant vocational training from the trainings provided by the "Talent Development and Career Centers" from the private sector.
We will provide these trainings based on the level of success and without discrimination among students, with attendance compulsory for all students who request it.
335- We will make internships paid, we will prevent the abuse of young labor.
We will end the practice of unpaid internships and prevent the abuse of young labor.
We will offer paid internships for all young people between the ages of 15 and 18 in high school, enabling them to gain work experience.
YOUNG PEOPLE'S LABOR SECURED
336- We will encourage the employment of new graduates.
We will make it compulsory to employ new graduates in public institutions.
In the private sector, we will encourage the employment of new graduates.
We will prevent new graduates from being laid off for the first 6 months.
337- With the "Free Card", we will provide free mobile internet and talk minutes to all university students up to the age of 25.
We will provide discounted public transportation in all provinces of Turkey.
Until the age of 25, we will provide free mobile internet and talk minutes to all university students.
We will present books to our youth through the National Digital Library.
With the "Free Card", we will enable young people to benefit from public transportation in all provinces of Turkey with a discount by using the same card.
With the same card, young people will be entitled to a 25% discount on cinema, theater, ballet, opera and concerts.
338- Universities belong to young people.
We will reorganize the social and physical infrastructure of universities as "student-centered".
Universities belong to young people.
We will provide the priorities (Dining Hall, Parking, etc.) given to Administrative and Academic Staff to students as well.
We will reorganize the social and physical infrastructure of universities as "student-centered".
We will develop university campuses to include 25% green areas, sports complexes and social facilities adequate for student capacities.
339- We will establish a National Youth Fund.
We will establish a youth fund fed by national and international funds.
With this fund, we will ensure that high school and university students who meet the success qualifications benefit from international student exchange programs, internship programs abroad and vocational practice training free of charge.
340- We will not charge students exam fees.
We will not charge tuition fees for any exams for young people who are still students.
341- We will give citizenship pension to the young unemployed.
We will provide young unemployed people at risk of poverty with a citizenship pension of 600 TL until they get a job.
342- We will encourage the employment of young people who are not in education and employment.
We will reduce the dependency of young people who are not in education and employment on their families by providing them with a profession.
We will increase the employment rate.
343- We will provide free education scholarships to young people in higher education from low-income families.
We will provide free education scholarships for all children of low-income families in higher education.
344- We will encourage young farmers.
We will reorganize initiative-based grant supports to encourage young people to engage in high value-added agricultural production in the agricultural sector.
We will allocate treasury lands.
WOMEN AT THE CENTER OF DEVELOPMENT
WOMEN WILL BE THE ONES WHO IMPROVE AND DEVELOP OUR COUNTRY'S POLICIES.
345- Women will be at the center of politics and policy makers.
We will implement the Women's Empowerment Action Plan.
We will make women subjects in every sphere of life.
We will remove all obstacles for women to be present in decision-making mechanisms, politics, economy, cultural and social life.
We will increase the representation and participation of women in decision-making mechanisms by introducing quotas for women in politics, state institutions and local government positions.
We will increase the number of women managers at all levels of administration, especially in all organizations of the Ministry of National Education.
We will implement the Women's Empowerment Action Plan, which includes social and economic dimensions, in order to support women to improve their individual and social lives, to develop their talents, to create platforms where they can gain competence and to increase women's participation in the economic process.
346- We will establish a "Ministry of Women, Family and Social Policies".
We will restructure the "Ministry of Family and Social Policies" and transform it into the "Ministry of Women, Family and Social Policies".
With this new structure, in addition to the existing duties of the ministry, we will develop policies to strengthen the position of "Women" in social and economic life.
We will implement the Women's Empowerment Action Plan with determination.
We will eliminate "women's poverty" and the disadvantaged conditions in which women live.
We will fight against violence against women with zero tolerance.
347- We will solve the problems of women's pre-natal borrowing.
We will allow women who are insured for the first time after giving birth to borrow SSI premium as of the date of birth.
We will eliminate the grievances on this issue.
WOMEN WILL BE GOOD FOR TURKEY.
348- In order to increase the participation of women in the labor force, we will double the social assistance resources allocated for care services.
We will double the social assistance resources allocated for the care of children and family elders, which is one of the biggest obstacles to women's participation in the labor force.
349- We will protect women's labor, we will include unregistered working women in the scope of Social Security.
We will ensure that seasonal agricultural workers and home-based women benefit from all kinds of social security.
We will organize skill courses for women living in rural areas according to the needs of the region and provide the necessary spaces for the marketing of local products and direct women to production.
We will cover caregivers under social security.
350- We will provide nursery support for mothers when they return to work, so that they are not distracted from their work life.
We will provide nursery support for children when they start work so that working women are not distracted from work life.
We will provide these supports gradually according to individual and household income levels.
351- We will include uninsured women working in the agricultural sector within the scope of social security and cover their premiums.
We will include women aged 18-40 working in agriculture without insurance in the scope of social security, and we will cover their insurance premiums for the first 5 years.
352- We will reduce income tax rates for women entrepreneurs by 3 points for 3 years.
We will encourage women entrepreneurship.
We will apply a 3-point discount on the income tax rate for women entrepreneurs who will start new activities for 3 years.
353- We will increase the literacy rate among women to 100% within five years.
We will increase the schooling rate for girls.
We will increase the literacy rate among women under forty to 100% within five years.
We will implement an effective non-formal education program with an emphasis on women's education.
In this framework; we will use Public Education Centers more effectively.
We will implement policies to increase girls' school enrollment rates, remove obstacles to their education, and work to raise awareness among families, especially in rural areas.
354- Women's lifestyle is under our guarantee.
We will prevent all forms of violence and oppression against women.
We will immediately abolish the "Good Behavior Discount" in Femicide.
We will implement the practice for men who commit violence to receive treatment in the Therapy Houses to be established.
Preventing violence against women, sexual and economic abuse, supporting and protecting women in need will be among our priority policies.
We will increase administrative and legal measures to prevent interference in women's lifestyle and choice of clothing.
We will immediately abolish the "Good Behavior Discount" in Femicide.
We will carry out preventive and educational activities for women and their families in regions where female suicides, honor killings and honor killings are common.
We will encourage local governments to work on women's issues.
Istanbul Convention, Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women (CEDAW) and
related international conventions and the Law No. 6284 on the Protection of the Family and
We will effectively implement the provisions of the Law on the Prevention of Violence against Women.
We will provide awareness trainings to members of the judiciary on this issue.
We will prevent early and forced marriages.
Instead of placing women who are subjected to violence in shelters and thus being removed from home and punished a second time, we will implement a practice that will ensure that the man who commits violence receives treatment in the Therapy Houses to be established.
PENSIONERS and OUR ELders
355-We will enact an "adjustment law" for our pensioners, we will not crush their salaries against inflation.
We will solve the pension problem of our citizens living abroad.
We will end the segregation of our retirees.
For those who retired after 2000, we will enact an "adjustment law".
We will improve the salary attachments of pensioners, taking into account real inflation rates and especially basic food inflation.
We will solve the pension problem of our citizens living abroad.
356- We will solve the problem of those stuck in retirement age.
We will carry out the necessary legislative work to eliminate the grievances of our citizens who have completed the number of premiums and days and cannot be pensioned due to age.
357- We will improve Elderly Care Services.
We will establish "happy life centers" for the elderly who are poor or orphaned.
We will include home care and mobile health services within the scope of General Health Insurance.
We will establish "happy life centers" for the elderly who are poor or orphaned; we will periodically provide them with nutrition, shelter, health and cleaning services without separating them from their homes and social environment to the extent possible.
We will open departments where trained and equipped elderly care personnel will be trained, and we will ensure that caregivers are certified.
We will include home care and mobile health services within the scope of General Health Insurance.
LIFE WITHOUT DISABILITIES
358- Elimination of all kinds of discrimination and prejudices against the disabled will be our first priority.
We are aware of all our obligations under the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities.
Eliminating all forms of discrimination and prejudice against people with disabilities will be our first priority.
We will ensure that our disabled citizens have all human rights, from social rights to education, from employment to the right to independent living.
WE WILL MAKE DECISIONS ABOUT YOU TOGETHER WITH YOU.
359- We will establish an Equality Commission for Persons with Disabilities.
We will ensure the participation of people with disabilities in decision-making mechanisms.
We will establish an Equality Commission for Persons with Disabilities.
We will ensure the participation of disabled people in decision-making mechanisms and ensure that they have a say.
360- We will establish "Social Life, Guidance and Vocational Houses" for the integration of our disabled citizens into economic and social life.
We will establish "Social Life, Guidance and Vocational Houses" where our disabled citizens can spend time during the day, do sports and improve their skills, come together and increase their learning skills and participate in social activities.
With these centers, we will improve the sportive, economic, cultural and social skills of disabled people.
We will support the participation of disabled citizens in economic life by promoting information and internet technologies and other vocational trainings.
361- We will support disabled sports clubs.
We will provide disabled sports clubs with facilities and in-kind and cash support.
362- We will remove the price limitation on automobile purchases by disabled people.
We will abolish the price limitation on the purchase of automobiles by disabled citizens in cases of special needs.
We will make the exemption valid not only for SCT but also for VAT.
363- We will increase the employment of disabled people in public and private sector.
We will increase the employment of disabled people in the public and private sector.
We will encourage employers to employ disabled people in the private sector, we will make the penalties deterrent for those who do not employ disabled people.
364- We will establish "Barrier-Free Job and Vocational Training Centers" to increase the employment of the disabled.
In order to ensure the participation of our disabled citizens in the labor market, we will establish "Barrier-Free Job and Vocational Training Centers" arranged in accordance with their moral and physical conditions and opportunities.
We will ensure that disabled citizens are competent in the fields of coding and technology development and are included in social life and the economy by producing added value.
We will encourage the employment of people with disabilities in technology companies in the private sector, especially for jobs in the IT field.
365- We will promote the education of people with disabilities.
We will promote the education of people with disabilities.
We will provide schools with conditions in accordance with accessibility standards so that the orthopedically disabled can receive education together with other students.
366- We will expand schools and rehabilitation centers for the mentally and visually disabled and citizens with autism.
We will increase the number of schools and rehabilitation centers and the quality of education for the mentally and visually impaired and citizens with autism.
We will provide quality and free education in accordance with the conditions.
367- We will launch a "Mobilization for Accessibility", we will take the transportation rights of the disabled under legal guarantee.
We will launch a Mobilization for Accessibility.
We will harmonize the physical conditions of all living spaces for the disabled.
We will take the right to transportation of the disabled under legal guarantee.
We will make buses and all means of transportation seamless for the disabled.
We will increase inspections.
We will make disability alphabet and clear signage compulsory in public buildings.
368- We will give priority to disabled people in public housing programs.
We will give disabled people priority in public housing programs.
We will build accessible housing for disabled citizens with the contribution of TOKI.
369- We will provide state support for the purchase of equipment and orthotic prosthesis used by disabled people.
We will provide state support for the purchase of orthotic prosthesis and tools used by disabled people to facilitate their daily lives.
370- We will remove the obligation to obtain a tax discount certificate in the retirement procedures of disabled workers.
1 The obstacle before the retirement of disabled workers who were employed before October 2008 is the obligation to obtain a tax discount certificate.
We will remove this obligation.
371- We will improve the scope and increase the effectiveness of social assistance to the disabled.
We will improve the coverage and effectiveness of social assistance and ensure fairness in the distribution of aid.
We recognize people with disabilities as independent individuals.
In this direction, we will make the salaries given to the disabled more fair.
We will improve the quality of care services.
families of martyrs and veterans
372- We will put into force the "Law on Martyrs' Families and Veterans" and eliminate the existing disorganization and victimization.
We will provide equal rights to all our martyrs' relatives and veterans without any discrimination between our martyrs and veterans who sacrificed their lives for the sake of the salvation of the homeland and the nation.
There is no special legal regulation regulating the rights of our martyrs' relatives and veterans and the rights of our martyrs' relatives and veterans are scattered in different legal regulations.
This disorganization leads to many victimizations.
By putting the "Law on Martyrs' Relatives and Veterans" into force, we will both eliminate the existing disorganization and eliminate the grievances caused by the disorganization.
We will improve the employment status of our martyrs' relatives and veterans and ensure that they work more effectively.
We will intensify activities to express love, respect and gratitude to the relatives of martyrs and veterans, and we will teach the meaning of this issue to new generations during their education.
373- We will encourage the participation of our veterans in economic and social life.
We will prepare an action plan for the participation of our veterans in economic and social life.
We will encourage them to engage in economic, social, sports and cultural activities.
We will make positive discrimination for our veterans in entrepreneurship supports.
We will open rehabilitation centers for veterans in all metropolitan cities (30 provinces).
We will provide physical and psychological rehabilitation free of charge and without long waiting lists.
374- We will raise the salaries of martyr relatives to the minimum wage.
We will correct the low salaries allocated to martyrs' families and raise them to the minimum wage.
375- We will solve the housing problem of our martyr families or veterans in need.
We will allocate housing free of charge to the families of martyrs and veterans in need who have housing problems.
376- We will provide all health services of our veterans free of charge.
We will ensure that they are treated without paying co-payments or additional fees, including private hospitals.
377- We will cover all expenses of the children of our martyrs' families and veterans attending university by the state.
We will cover all the expenses of the children of our martyrs' families or veterans going to university by the state.
COMBATING SUBSTANCE ABUSE
378- We will effectively fight against substance addiction, we will establish substance addiction rehabilitation centers in metropolitan cities and we will not charge any fee from families.
We will fight against substance abuse.
We will conduct field surveys to determine the prevalence and quit rates of age and gender-specific tobacco and alcohol use and substance abuse.
We will increase the professional competence of health professionals in the treatment of tobacco, alcohol and other addictive substances, we will open new service centers in regions with problems in this regard in order to facilitate access to services for citizens who want to get rid of tobacco and alcohol addiction, we will improve the quality and quantity of treatment and rehabilitation services for drug addicts.
We will establish municipal substance abuse rehabilitation centers in metropolitan areas and will not charge any fees to families.
We will carry out comprehensive and wide-ranging efforts to revitalize the neighborhood culture, to activate the historical mission of foundations in the Turkish social system, to develop social and cultural spaces where our young people can interact with society, and to prevent drug use.
We will transform the institutions consisting of closed spaces in city centers under the name of youth centers into large and rich attraction centers where young people will be in touch with nature and spend their energy on sports and cultural activities.
We will include national and local non-governmental organizations that fight against substance abuse in the status of "associations operating in the public interest", ensure that they work in cooperation with YEŞİLAY, and provide in-kind and cash support,
SPORTS
WE WILL ABOLISH THE PASSOLIG APPLICATION, WHICH IS USED AS A THREAT AGAINST SPORTS FANS.
379- We will restructure Turkish sports and abolish Passolig, which prevents entry to sporting events.
We will restructure Turkish sports under a single law to manage it with need, specialization and merit.
We will depoliticize sports.
We will ensure the autonomy of sports.
We will abolish all Passolig-like applications that prevent entry to all sporting events, especially football.
We will create a system in which sports administrators and all licensed active athletes will participate and have a say in the election of all federations, especially the Turkish Football Federation.
We will pave the way for Turkish youth by introducing criteria and limitations on disproportionate and poor quality foreign player transfers, which are also practiced in Turkey.
380- We will support Amateur Sports Clubs.
We will support amateur sports clubs.
We will provide in-kind and cash incentives to these clubs according to the national and international achievements of their athletes.
381- We will end the longing for medals in the Olympics.
We will prepare an Olympic Strategy in order to raise the Turkish flag at the Olympics, and within the framework of this strategy, we will establish a separate organization under the Turkish National Olympic National Committee.
In the 2020 Olympics, we will urgently initiate efforts to bring Turkey at least 10 gold medals.
382- We will encourage children and young people to sports.
We will ensure the talent identification and orientation of young people in primary and secondary education to sports, as well as the training of athlete groups directed to branches, the assignment of trainers and the construction of related facilities.
We will establish sports facilities all over our country, where both the public and active athletes can practice all kinds of sports, and where graduates of BESYO and Faculty of Sports Sciences are employed.
ANIMAL RIGHTS
383- We will refer to the UNESCO Declaration on Animal Rights for the protection of animal rights.
We will adopt the text of the UNESCO Declaration on Animal Rights as state policy.
In addition to ensuring that wild animals live undisturbed in their natural habitats, we will take all kinds of measures by conducting scientific studies on endangered animals.
We will make legal arrangements in accordance with the age on animal rights and raise awareness of all our citizens on animal rights.
We will ensure that the actions and acts of violations of animal rights and the sanctions to be imposed in response to these actions and acts will be rearranged by law and that the sanctions to be imposed in response to animal rights violations will be deterrent.
384- We will regularly carry out all kinds of inspections and improvements regarding animal rights violations.
We will increase the number of animal shelters
We will regularly carry out all kinds of inspections and improvements in terms of the health status of animals in pet and animal care product stores, production farms, shelters, zoos and similar places and to prevent animal rights violations in these areas.
In cooperation with NGOs and Local Authorities, we will increase the number of animal shelters and improve the conditions of existing shelters, meet the vaccination, food, shelter and health needs of stray animals.
CIVIL SOCIETY
385- Registration Fees, Annual Dues and Additional Dues charged by the Chambers of Commerce and Industry, which burden industrialists and craftsmen, will be reduced by 2/3.
We will reorganize the structure and functions of professional organizations with the status of public institutions through a legislative amendment.
We will increase participation, transparency and accountability in good governance principles in chamber administrations.
Registration Fee, Annual Fee and Supplementary Fee charged by Chambers of Commerce and Industry, which are a burden on industrialists and tradesmen, will be reduced by 2/3.
386- We will support Civil Society Activities.
We will receive the opinions and suggestions of Civil Society Organizations regarding legislative activities and evaluate them in the commissions.
We will reorganize the Laws on Associations and Foundations in line with the requirements of the democratic social order and current needs.
We will set objective criteria for transition to the status of Public Benefit Associations and Foundations, and we will exclude those who do not meet these criteria.
We will eliminate the existing injustices by re-evaluating administrative fines, all kinds of financial burdens and accruals imposed in order to keep Civil Society Organizations under pressure.
We will make the necessary amendments to the Law on Associations and support it with legislation so that associations and their activities can reach European standards.
We will provide all kinds of project support to associations called "associations of fellow townspeople", which are composed of people from a certain region, for the protection and promotion of cultural and natural riches in their regions and for increasing employment.
387- We will revive the foundation culture and make it operational.
We will revive the foundation culture, which has a historical and indispensable mission in the Turkish Social Order, and make it operational.
We will increase the role of foundations in the solution of social problems and solidarity, and we will operationalize the mission of foundations to eliminate inequality in income distribution.
We will ensure that existing and newly established foundations in our country operate in accordance with their founding purposes.
To this end, we will support foundations by exempting their income from all kinds of taxes.
We will encourage the establishment of new foundations, minimize bureaucratic obstacles and facilitate the establishment process.
We will also operate an effective audit mechanism.
We will attach importance to projects and educational activities that raise historical awareness about foundation culture and foundation works.
CULTURE and ART
388- We will develop an "Arts and Culture" strategy and adopt a new institutional structuring model.
We will prepare a separate strategy for Arts and Culture.
We will establish a culture and arts council with broad participation and formulate our culture and arts policies in line with the recommendations of this council.
While exploring the aesthetic codes of our culture, we will create an aesthetic language that is not disconnected from Sufi philosophy and literature.
We will encourage all studies on our cultural codes and cultural historical images.
We will take an approach that takes art and culture to the streets and into life.
We will revive classic works of Turkish literature and history as cinema and television products, and we will establish an autonomous institute for this purpose.
We will strengthen cultural ties with the Turkic World and pay special attention to such projects.
We will introduce a new institutional structuring model in line with this strategy.
389- We will encourage free competition in the cinema sector.
We will take measures against the formation of distribution and production monopolies in the cinema sector and support the free development of cinema.
390- We will expand fine arts education.
We will expand fine arts education at high school and university level and make it a specialized education.
We will encourage private fine art workshops.
391- In each district, we will build a cultural center including a Library, Theater and Cinema Halls.
Within the available means, we will build cultural centers with libraries, theaters and movie theaters in all districts.
392- We will transform the State Theaters into an autonomous structure.
We will establish city theaters in all provinces.
We will transform the State Theaters into an autonomous structure.
We will ensure that these institutions are self-governing.
393- We will support works in performing arts such as theater, opera and ballet.
We will support works in performing arts such as theater, opera and ballet, and we will encourage special works that provide an east-west synthesis.
394- We will revise the Law on Intellectual and Artistic Works, taking into account the issues related to digital rights management, and we will establish an institutional structure for digital arts and rights.
We will revise the Law on Intellectual and Artistic Works, taking into account issues related to digital rights management, and fully guarantee intellectual property rights in line with the European Union acquis.
We will not allow the exploitation of authors' labor, taking into account their consultations with their professional associations.
We will create the necessary institutional structure specific to digital rights and digital arts, and support culture and arts production and aesthetics in technological media.
395- We will improve the physical conditions of all libraries.
We will establish sales offices in every province and district under the General Directorate of Libraries, affiliated to the Ministry of Culture.
We will establish a library connected to all sales offices.
We will improve the physical conditions of public libraries in provinces and districts, and we will eliminate the shortage of trained specialized personnel in order to provide more adequate service.
396- We will establish a National Digital Library and enable citizens to access it via e-Government.
We will establish a National Digital Library and provide access to citizens through e-government.
We will carry out the necessary work to digitize the works in libraries, and we will prepare the necessary technical infrastructure to enable hearing and visually impaired individuals to benefit from libraries.
We will publish books with this platform to be created on e-government.
We will publish the works of authors and publishers on this platform free of charge.
We will pay royalties to published works based on the number of readings and reader comments.
We will collect all the works representing the Turkish cultural treasure and present them to the public free of charge in e-book format.
We will make master's and doctoral theses available for publication via e-Government.
397-We will carry out Restoration and Renovation Projects by experts.
Restoration and Renovation projects will be carried out under the control of competent and artist experts.
We will cooperate with people and organizations specialized in their fields for the protection, restoration and transfer of our architectural works to future generations.
398- We will take art and artists under our guarantee.
We will solve the social security problems of people working in the field of culture and arts.
We will secure all kinds of works and artists in the field of culture and arts with international copyright standards.
We will provide state incentives to those who invest in culture and arts.
399- We will provide tax breaks to private theaters.
We will provide tax breaks for private theaters, making it easier for art lovers to access the arts.
400-We will ensure Turkey's internationalization in artistic activities.
We will host major world-class organizations and build halls suitable for performing arts and concerts.
We will provide unconditional and full support to internationally acclaimed artists for their next projects.
We will strengthen the ties of foreign cultural and artistic authorities with our country and introduce the practice of "cultural citizenship".
In order to ensure the survival, development and dissemination of Turkish culture, we will establish institutes to conduct scientific studies in coordination with universities.
401- We will protect the rights to Intellectual and Artistic Works in the best way.
We will provide support from the Ministry of Culture and Tourism three times a year for the production of cinema, short films and documentaries.
This support will be checked by an independent and impartial panel.
We will preserve the works of cinema, short films and documentaries in the state archive with the best technological standards of the age.
402- We will be free in art.
We will ensure the free living conditions necessary for the artist to produce and perform original and free works.
The state will be protective and encouraging in the field of culture and arts, and we will provide autonomy to the relevant institutions regarding the content and presentation of the arts.
We will respect the freedom of cultural and artistic activities and the autonomy of the relevant institutions.
We will aim to reach universal standards in the field of culture and arts.
403- We will encourage music education in basic education.
In basic education, we will encourage every student to learn an instrument.
We will ensure the upbringing of generations that live and keep alive their culture and blend it with contemporary western music.
404- We will strengthen the General Directorates of State Theaters and State Opera and Ballet, and improve the personal rights of artists and other personnel.
We will strengthen the General Directorates of State Theaters and State Opera and Ballet in terms of financial, administrative and personnel rights, and we will make the necessary legal arrangements including the staff and professional definitions for the artists and other support staff working here.
