As the AK Party, we set out with the claim of being the party of Turkey, we moved forward with this claim, and we solved many of Turkey's accumulated and chronic problems with this understanding.
We did this in line with the expectations and needs of our nation and by protecting the values of our nation.
While providing our services, we did not look at which belief system, sect, origin, culture and income level our citizens belonged to.
We have taken important steps towards making our country a strong rule of law.
We built the AK Party's understanding of politics on the principles of democracy, service and responsibility.
We ended politics, which had been battered for years, eroded trust, and lost its ability to represent the nation, and we rebuilt the political sphere by establishing a strong bond between politics and the nation.
In this journey, we have always aimed to take our democracy further.
One of the raison d'être of the AK Party has been to expand the fundamental rights and freedoms of our citizens.
We have expressed this goal in all our election manifestos and government programs so far.
On the other hand, we have improved the quality of our management and produced more services with fewer resources.
We have demonstrated with our concrete practices that democracy also empowers our development process.
Democratization in the new period
and we will continue to improve our management quality.
In countries where democracy is advanced and fundamental rights are guaranteed, the scientific mindset and innovative production flourish faster.
In the coming period, with the reforms we will make with the new constitution, the progress of our democracy
and the further improvement of our management quality;
On the one hand, it will accelerate economic development, it will accelerate our human development,
On the other hand, it will make Turkey a more respected and attractive country in the international arena.
As the Justice and Development Party, we will continue our democratization efforts after November 1st.
Where everyone can live as they believe,
where they can express their ideas freely,
contributes to prosperity
and its rightful share of prosperity,
as a society living in safety and peace
we will walk into the future together.
1.1. Fundamental Rights and Freedoms
The AK Party considers individual rights and freedoms and the elevation of human dignity as the fundamental moral reference of the new constitution.
With this reference, we continue to see it as a fundamental duty to guarantee the fundamental rights and freedoms of our citizens and to eliminate the obstacles that restrict their exercise.
With our understanding of standing at an equal distance to all social segments, we embrace our unity based on the fundamental values of our nation and the bond of citizenship.
We believe that relations between the state and citizens should be based on justice and democracy, and we continue to embrace all our citizens with a pluralistic approach.
Our historical experience, our accumulation of ancient civilization, our spiritual values that elevate human beings are the assurance that we build fundamental rights and freedoms on a solid ground in today's world.
In the new Turkey, our motto is to realize a stronger understanding that embraces everyone, regardless of their ethnic identity, sect and belief, and brings them to a democratic consciousness of coexistence on the basis of equal citizenship and universal principles and values.
a. What We Did
The removal of all obstacles to freedom of expression, belief and enterprise is a fundamental principle of the AK Party.
Within the framework of this understanding, there has been a "silent revolution" in the field of fundamental rights and freedoms, many steps have been taken and fundamental reforms have been realized.
With the steps we have taken, we have eliminated chronic problems in our country.
We normalized social and political life and removed the obstacles to a new social contract.
During our 13 years in power, we have reviewed a significant part of the legislation and changed many of the undemocratic ones.
We have renewed most of the basic laws that were imposed on society, especially during the coup periods.
We removed obstacles to the expression of thought and expanded freedom of the press.
We introduced the rule that "expressions of thought made for the purpose of criticism do not constitute a crime" to all offenses related to freedom of expression and guaranteed the freedom of criticism.
We have made it a constitutional rule that printing houses, their annexes and press vehicles cannot be seized and confiscated or prevented from operating on the grounds that they are instruments of crime.
We have lifted thousands of previous publication ban, collection and confiscation orders.
We liberated works that had been banned, collected and confiscated.
Our Party, which transforms every difference into Turkey's dynamism within its own historical and cultural depth, has also undertaken important projects to overcome many long-standing problems.
Among these; paving the way for our citizens to exercise their natural rights such as belief, sect and cultural identity
and the initiation of the solution process.
We have mobilized the most important dynamics of social restoration with the reforms we made in this field during our governments.
We have made important reforms in the field of human rights
and we changed Turkey's human rights record in a positive way.
During our ruling period, we realized the policy of zero tolerance to torture.
Turkey no longer has an agenda on torture.
We have increased the penalties for torture crimes and abolished the statute of limitations for those who commit these crimes.
We ratified the "Optional Protocol to the UN Convention against Torture" and incorporated it into domestic law.
We ended the era of unsolved murders,
We removed the mafia and gangs from the country's agenda.
We have made ECtHR violation judgments a ground for renewal of proceedings in civil, criminal and administrative jurisdictions.
By recognizing the right to information, we eliminated practices that made it impossible for citizens to obtain information.
We ratified the 1966 "UN International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights" and the "UN International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights", which are among the most important universal human rights instruments.
During the 28 February period, we ensured that those who were victimized could return to their professions.
We established the Human Rights Institution of Turkey with administrative and financial autonomy to protect and promote human rights.
We have established a compensation commission in our domestic law to resolve pending applications before the ECtHR arising from lengthy trials.
Since February 2013, the Human Rights Compensation Commission has taken a number of decisions to prevent the victimization of our citizens.
We prepared and implemented the "Action Plan for the Prevention of Human Rights Violations" within the framework of the case law of the ECtHR in order to address human rights issues one by one and to solve them within a certain timeframe.
We established the Ombudsman Institution to redress injustices suffered by our citizens against the administration and to finalize their complaints without going to court.
Regardless of conjunctural developments, we have taken important steps to achieve further democratization, as envisaged in our 2001 Party Program.
As soon as we came to power, we accelerated the normalization process by lifting the state of emergency.
Expansion of cultural rights
and we have taken steps to make the education system more democratic and pluralistic.
We made it possible to broadcast in different languages and dialects on official state channels.
We have made it possible for prisoners and convicts to meet with their relatives in their mother tongue, for our citizens to give their children the names they desire, for academic studies to be conducted in different languages and dialects at universities, for institutes to be established, for these to be taught as elective courses in secondary education institutions, and finally, for private schools to be opened that offer education in different languages and dialects.
We lifted bans on political propaganda, cinema, video and music in different languages and dialects.
We supported cultural activities within this framework.
We ensured that fears, taboos and prohibitions were overcome, that society and the state confronted their own problems, and that problems that had been growing for years because they could not be talked about could be openly discussed and debated.
We strengthened the sense of belonging of all our citizens, including our citizens of Kurdish origin, by demonstrating the will to overcome their problems in the field of fundamental rights and freedoms
and we have taken important steps for social restoration.
We restored the rights of those deprived of citizenship and the old names of settlements.
We have made all these and similar changes because we believe and see them as rights that our citizens should have, as we set out in our Party's founding documents.
We have taken bold steps on different languages as well as different faiths and sects.
By organizing "Alevi Workshops" for the first time, we prepared the ground for discussing different interpretations of the Islamic faith in a freer environment and overcoming their problems in a democratic environment.
We organized workshops to solve the social problems of Roma citizens that have accumulated throughout the history of the Republic.
With the new Settlement Law, we eliminated discriminatory provisions against Roma.
Encouraged by the steps taken by our government, there has been a great increase in the number of associations and federations established by Roma citizens.
A Parliamentary Investigation Commission to investigate coups within the Grand National Assembly of Turkey
and we established the "Dersim Sub-Commission" within the Petitions Commission.
We have made it a constitutional rule that in cases where international agreements on fundamental rights and freedoms duly put into force and laws contain different provisions on the same subject, the provisions of international agreements shall prevail.
As a requirement of an organized society, we enacted a liberal Law on Associations and a Law on Trade Unions and Collective Bargaining.
We expanded the possibilities to exercise the right to assembly and demonstration,
We have made fundamental changes to facilitate the acquisition of property by community foundations belonging to minorities and to expand their areas of freedom.
We improved freedom of association by abolishing the provision in our Constitution that one cannot be a member of more than one union at the same time and in the same line of work.
We improved the union rights of public employees by introducing the right to collective bargaining.
We introduced the right of individual application to the Constitutional Court.
We partially opened the decisions of the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors (YAŞ) and the High Council of Judges and Prosecutors (HSYK) to judicial review,
We ensured that the political institution, which had been under tutelage for years, was restored its dignity and self-confidence.
Taking into account the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, we have made fundamental changes to the legislation.
In the Constitution, we have adopted the principle of positive discrimination for children.
We made it a constitutional provision that women and men have equal rights.
At the UN, we ratified the "Protocol to Prevent, Suppress and Punish Trafficking in Persons, Especially Women and Children".
With the amendment we made to the Labor Law, we introduced provisions in favor of women.
We established the Commission for Equal Opportunities for Women and Men.
We made amendments to the penal code to strengthen women's rights.
We lifted restrictions on the dress code for female students, female public servants and members of parliament.
In this context, the headscarf and other restrictive regulations are now a thing of the past.
In this way, we have brought a fundamental solution to a problem that has been going on for years and that has created unnecessary tension in our society, in line with fundamental rights and the expectations of our nation.
On personal security, we have increased the penalties for disproportionate use of force.
We have improved detention conditions.
We closed prisons that failed to meet UN and Council of Europe standards.
We have made it possible for prisoners and detainees to attend the funerals of their relatives and to visit them in cases of serious illness,
We have recognized the possibility of defense in the mother tongue.
In order to put an end to personal concerns, we regulated the protection of our citizens' personal data as a constitutional right for the first time.
We have expanded the scope of state aid to political parties so that more political parties receive state aid.
During our governments, we have paid special attention to the development of an active civil society in Turkey.
By making important administrative and legal arrangements for Civil Society Organizations (CSOs), we created an environment more conducive to the right and freedom of association.
By improving the legislation concerning associations and foundations, we took steps to improve cooperation between the public sector and CSOs and increase their effectiveness.
We have consulted with civil society actors in the preparation of key reforms.
We launched EU-Turkey Civil Society Dialogue Programmes, contributing to the development of civil society and greater recognition of civil society organizations at local level.
We granted tax privileges and public funds to CSOs within the framework of public benefit and tax exemption.
We paved the way for the establishment of public-NGO collaborations.
In this context, we make resources available to CSOs and ensure the realization of joint projects through the Attraction Centers Support Program, Social Support Program (SODES), Development Agencies and grant programs carried out by various Ministries.
As of 2014, the total number of associations and foundations in Turkey reached 104,317 and 4,757, respectively.
b. What We Will Do
In the period ahead, AK Party will resolutely protect the gains we have made in the field of fundamental rights and freedoms in the past.
Our main priority for the upcoming period will be to make our regulations a part of life through a mindset transformation and effective implementation, and to improve the quality of our regulations.
As in the past, we will oppose the imposition of identity and lifestyle on society in the second breakthrough period.
Where all our citizens are treated as first class
and we will continue to build an environment where they live as free individuals.
We will continue to reinforce our unity and integrity within an understanding of citizenship based on inclusive and universal values.
It stands at an equal distance to all ethnic, sectarian and religious groups, to all our citizens, headscarved or uncovered, peasant or urban, male or female, poor or rich, of one political view or another;
We aim for a Turkey where every individual will enjoy the most advanced level of fundamental rights and freedoms.
Our unity in the historical journey where the fundamental values of our nation are kneaded before ethnic, religious and sectarian affiliations
and equal citizenship.
With this understanding, the state should work with all social segments on the basis of equality and fairness.
and develop a democratic relationship;
We will continue to embrace all elements of our social wealth with a pluralistic approach.
We will continue to respect the way of life of every individual in society.
In line with the goal of social reconciliation,
we will continue our policies to maintain all identities and lifestyles as a richness.
We will take the necessary steps on the basis of democratic consensus in dialogue with Alevi opinion leaders on various issues such as cemevis, healthy information in the education system, creating research and application centers in universities.
At this point, we will grant legal status to traditional wisdom centers and cemevis.
Likewise, we will make the necessary amendments to Municipal Law No. 5393, Zoning Law No. 3194 and Electricity Market Law No. 6446 to meet the needs of traditional wisdom centers and cemevis.
In the coming period, we will accelerate the solution of the problems of our Roma citizens, especially employment, housing and education problems, and eliminate all grounds for discrimination.
We will continue to take all necessary legal and practical measures to ensure that minorities who are citizens of the Republic of Turkey can lead a dignified life without any discrimination.
Our goal of pluralist, egalitarian and participatory democracy will take Turkey even higher in the league of world democracies.
International norms in the field of fundamental rights and freedoms will be the basis for all our policies in the future.
We will eliminate deficiencies in fundamental rights and freedoms.
We will organize the part of the new constitution on fundamental rights according to these principles.
We will design the political, administrative, judicial and economic order of the state in a way that puts human dignity and fundamental rights at the center.
In this framework, we will activate the Human Rights Inquiry Commission of the TGNA, the Ombudsman's Office and the Human Rights Institution of Turkey.
We will take the necessary measures to ensure that these institutions fulfill the responsibilities Turkey has assumed under the ECHR and the UN.
We will effectively monitor prisons and detention centers and resolutely address complaints against law enforcement.
We will define and implement rules for political ethics.
We will increase the level of legislative and practical harmonization with the ECtHR, Venice Commission and other international fundamental rights mechanisms.
We will continue to incorporate international conventions on fundamental rights and freedoms into domestic law and remove annotations that are incompatible with the logic of a libertarian democratic order.
In the coming period, we will prepare a framework legislation and regulate areas such as the legal status, institutional structures, activities, relations with public institutions and financial resources of civil society organizations with a holistic and democratic approach.
We will enact a framework law on the "Development and Strengthening of Civil Society" that regulates areas such as the legal status, institutional structures, activities, relations with public institutions and financial resources of civil society organizations.
We will introduce separate financial reporting standards for non-profit organizations.
We will provide training seminars and international exchange programs for CSOs and public authorities to better understand the mutual role of CSOs and public authorities.
We will make the Economic and Social Council work effectively.
The resolution process corresponds to a historic effort for the democratization, national unity, brotherhood and prosperity of our country.
From the first day we came to power, we have shaped our politics with the perspective of national unity and brotherhood.
We have adopted a political understanding that clearly states that understandings that undermine the belonging of our citizens to our state, that see the differences of our nation as a threat instead of a richness, do not befit our country and our state.
As AK Party, we have transformed the perspective of national unity and brotherhood from a passive approach to an active approach to problems that have become chronic due to the neglect of the past.
Throughout our recent history, we have tackled problems with courage and determination that no elected government has ever shown.
The turning point of the Kurdish question, one of the fundamental problems of the history of the Republic, was the speech of our Founding President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan, as Prime Minister, in Diyarbakir in 2005.
With this speech, taboos were broken and it was stated that a solution to the problem would be found within the democratic process.
For the first time, a government has had the courage to face the problem openly.
Various terrorist attacks and provocative actions tried to disrupt this courageous step of the AK Party, yet the determination to solve this fundamental and historic problem of our country was maintained.
We have implemented a series of administrative and legal reforms to end terrorism and anti-democratic practices.
Determined to carry out the processes of ending terrorism and democratization together, we announced the "Democratic Initiative" in 2009 in consultation with civil society organizations, academics and representatives of political parties.
With this work, also known as the National Unity and Brotherhood Project, we have set out the framework for the democratic steps to be taken, while working to eliminate the source of terrorism.
In 2013, we further matured the National Unity and Brotherhood Project and continued it in a multidimensional perspective under the name "Resolution Process".
During this time, we have repaired the problematic state-citizen relations that had cost us dearly in the old Turkey,
We eliminated many anti-democratic practices that created victimization.
As AK Party, we have deepened our democracy by openly confronting problems that in the old Turkey would have been hesitant to even mention.
We ended the policies of rejection, denial and assimilation.
In April 2013, the 63-member Wise People's Committee, appointed by the Government, carried out activities across Turkey, while the Commission established in the Turkish Grand National Assembly for the purpose of "Investigating the Pathways to Social Peace and Evaluating the Resolution Process" also carried out a separate study.
On December 2, 2013, the Parliamentary Commission released a 450-page report on the resolution process.
On October 1, 2013, Prime Minister Erdoğan announced the Democratization Package, and in 2014, progress continued in the solution process with amendments such as those allowing campaigning in languages other than Turkish in elections.
On July 10, 2014, the "Law on Ending Terrorism and Strengthening Social Integration", popularly known as the "Resolution Process Law", entered into force.
The law regulated the procedures and principles regarding the resolution process.
On October 1, 2014, we issued the Council of Ministers Decree on the "Establishment of the Resolution Process Board and Inter-Agency Monitoring and Coordination Commissions".
As AK Party, we have taken steps in democratization, mainly to establish an environment of freedom that all our citizens will benefit from.
As we took these steps, each time we openly invited our political parties to support our process of national unity and brotherhood.
Our party has underlined that constitutional change is essential for democratic steps and called for a new social contract under the roof of the Parliament.
Although the opposition parties turned a deaf ear to these calls, the AK Party did not hesitate to take the vast majority of democratization steps that did not require constitutional amendments.
Our citizens have shown great favoritism to these steps and have strongly embraced the Resolution Process.
With the 20th century Turkey's most costly problem, we clearly declared with the Resolution Process that we would not allow our nation to pay heavy bills by capturing Turkey's 21st century.
At this point, the Resolution Process has become a recipe for peace and tranquility not only in our country but also in our region.
At a time when 'bloody processes' were deepening in our region, we ensured that our country was known for 'peace processes'.
In this respect, the Resolution Process is a model of unity and brotherhood not only for the democratization of Turkey and the relief of suffering, but also for our region.
The Resolution Process is the well-being project of our nation.
The Resolution Process is the guarantee that our sufferings in World War I and the Balkan War, of which we realize the centennial, will not be experienced again.
The Resolution Process is the roadmap for Turkey's normalization.
The Resolution Process is the guarantee that the anti-democratic practices of the old Turkey will not repeat themselves again.
The Resolution Process is one of the important dynamics of the AK Party, which puts human dignity at the center, to achieve human development and 2023 goals.
The solution process is also a process of prosperity for our entire country, especially in the East and Southeast.
The Resolution Process is a move to disrupt the games of those who want to put shackles on the feet of our nation and our state, those who want to impose costs.
The Resolution Process is an indigenous initiative focused on human rights and democracy, implemented for the establishment of justice and the continuity of development.
As AK Party, after June 7, we will resolutely continue the Resolution Process, which aims to establish unity and brotherhood in the country and which we do not see as a periodic issue.
We will guarantee the protection of democratic rights and freedoms in the new constitution.
We will continue to improve and expand freedoms.
Simultaneously with democratization, we will accelerate and continue our efforts for the economic and social rehabilitation of our regions affected by terrorism, particularly the development of investment, production and employment opportunities.
With the "Law No. 6551 on Ending Terrorism and Strengthening Social Integration", which we enacted in order to secure and finalize the Resolution Process and to establish permanent peace, we will take all necessary measures to reach a point where the gun is completely off the agenda.
As AK Party, we will maintain our perspective on the Resolution Process, which aims to establish public order, unity and brotherhood and which we do not see as a periodic issue.
The addressee and owner of the solution process is the nation, and the carrier is everyone who wants peace, stability and peace in our country, especially the AK Party.
The terrorist organization, which tried to sabotage and disrupt the solution process as in previous processes, has returned to armed conflict by destroying the public order.
The terrorist organization turned to illegality, violence and oppression and declared war on the solution process.
The organization, which broke its promises made in 2013 and resorted to all kinds of pressure, violence and illegality instead of complete inaction, did not leave Turkey and resisted the commitment to 'lay down arms'.
Seeing the solution process as a threat to its existence, the organization started terrorist acts again.
The AK Party government maintains its principled stance and political position of the first day.
However, the terrorist organization's actions and sabotage have made the process unsustainable.
It is an absolute necessity to establish a balance between freedom and security by consolidating public order in order to protect the rights and laws of the people.
The government aims to ensure that citizens are not victimized in the fight against terrorism, but rather to establish a public order that guarantees the fundamental rights of citizens.
AK Party is about reforms,
services,
will never give up or step back from investments.
It is the primary duty of the state to eliminate the security risks that arise for various reasons during the process and to protect the people of the region from the oppression of the tyrannical and oppressive organization.
The architect, executor and locomotive of the solution process is the AK Party.
A strong AK Party is important for the process to reach a conclusion.
It is our moral, humanitarian and conscientious duty to bring this process to a conclusion.
Despite the structures that disrupt, poison and sabotage the process, we firmly believe that we will reach our goals by maintaining the balance between freedom and security.
Our fight against terrorism until public order is restored;
We will continue to protect our understanding of the Solution Process until law and brotherhood are fully established.
1.2. New Constitution
The Justice and Development Party is the representative of a political understanding that is based on people and freedoms and sees the state and its institutions as a means of serving people.
Since the day it was founded, our party has argued that Turkey needs a civilian constitution and that a new pluralist and libertarian constitution should be drafted for this purpose.
The new constitution should reflect the modern understanding of democracy, be drafted with the widest possible consensus and democratic methods, and be embraced by broad social segments.
We believe that the Constitution should be inclusive, embracing, integrative, advocating unity in diversity, pluralist and libertarian.
The new constitution should be based on individual freedoms, include institutional safeguards to ensure judicial independence and impartiality, and remove uncertainties in the functioning of the political system.
With this understanding, we see the new constitution as a vital stage in the second breakthrough period for the consolidation of democracy, human rights and the rule of law in Turkey.
a. What We Did
As AK Party, we liquidated the tutelage system institutionalized by the coups of the past and opened the doors to a politics based on social values and legitimacy.
In the past, uncivilian constitutions have taken the exercise of sovereignty away from the nation and given it to the bureaucratic institutions envisaged in the constitution.
The administrative structure was designed to be rigidly centralized so that these structures, which were not based on the approval of the people, could keep the country under control.
As a result, our people have become alienated from the state, the law and the judiciary.
People's trust in parliament and civilian politics has been shaken.
The culture of democracy has weakened.
The concentration of power in bureaucratic institutions and at the center, and the exclusion of society from central or local decision-making processes, fed the desire to usurp sovereignty by seizing these institutions instead of engaging in politics through democratic means.
Each coup d'état has caused Turkey to move further away from democracy institutionally.
Each coup has placed ideological and institutional barriers to the normalization of society.
With each intervention, it became more difficult for society to build democracy.
Despite everything, society continued to insist on democracy and protected the ballot box.
Despite all the impositions, it patiently demonstrated its democratic reaction.
In the 2002 elections, our people ended this period with the AK Party government.
The ruling AK Party has pioneered this democratic demand and fought for the construction of a democratic constitutional order so that our society would not pay any more price and continues to do so.
In our 13 years in power, we ended the tutelage structures and prohibitionist understanding caused by coups;
We have endeavored to repair and heal the damage it has done to our intellectual, cultural, social and political life.
We insisted on democratization and continued reforms.
We paved the way for civilian politics to have a say in Turkey's destiny and for the transformation of mentality necessary for the construction of a democratic constitutional order.
In the past 13 years, we have taken important steps to establish our democracy on a solid and permanent basis and to ensure that people from all walks of life enjoy fundamental rights and freedoms to the fullest extent.
These are steps that reduce the distance between the state and society, in other words, steps that restore and reinforce our nation's sense of belonging and trust in its state.
As AK Party governments, we listened to the voices of our citizens, whose demands, especially for rights and freedoms, were ignored due to the security perspective and tutelage institutions in the previous period.
By striking a balance between security and freedom, we have endeavored to meet the legitimate demands of our citizens to the fullest extent, without making any distinction between them.
Turkey has become civilized and the will of the people has become the dominant will.
In this process, our people directly elected the President with their own will, the National Security Council was civilianized, the jurisdiction of the military judiciary was narrowed, the Emasya Protocol was abolished, the practice of military members in some public institutions and organizations was ended, judicial remedies were opened against the decisions of the Supreme Military Council, and the obstacles to the trial of the September 12 coup plotters were removed.
Article 35 of the Turkish Armed Forces Internal Service Law, which has been used as a justification for coups since May 27, was reorganized in a democratic spirit.
We also established a parliamentary commission of inquiry on the fight against coups
and with the report prepared, we informed the public about the causes and consequences of coups.
The steps taken by the AK Party in this process indicate that we are passing through a historic turning point in achieving the great and powerful Turkey of the future.
While our country rises to the highest category in the world in terms of democratic standards
On the other hand, it is gradually increasing its prestige both in its region and on a global scale.
This is closely related to the AK Party's equal distance to all citizens, regardless of their ethnic, cultural, religious and political differences, and its view of all of them as "equal and free citizens" of our country.
As AK Party, we have made many amendments to the Constitution in 13 years in order to liquidate the tutelage, authoritarian and prohibitive understanding at the root of the 1982 Constitution.
We have made significant progress in the democratization process with these amendments, the most important of which were the ones implemented in 2004 and 2010 in terms of their results and scope.
Our Party, which continues to work relentlessly to erase the effects of military and bureaucratic tutelage in the Constitution, reiterated its call for a new constitution after the 2011 elections, with the awareness that the New Turkey cannot be built with a Constitution that is a product of the coup era.
The Constitutional Reconciliation Commission, which started its work with the participation of the other parties in the Parliament that accepted the AK Party's call, collected nearly 70,000 individual opinions and nearly 500 institutional opinions on the new constitution.
Then, after 25 months of work, they drafted a total of 172 articles and reached a consensus on 60 articles, more than 40 of which were in the field of fundamental rights and freedoms.
A healthy and legitimate constitutional order can only come to life in a society on the path to normalization and civilianization.
Previous attempts at constitution-making did not result in success because the necessary ground and conditions for a new constitution were not provided.
Recent efforts for a new constitution have not escaped this fate either.
Even the 60-article compromise package reached during the current legislative period could not be realized due to the resistance of opposition parties.
Even if the desired results were not fully achieved, all of this contributed to Turkey's constitution drafting experience.
Since we came to power in 2002, we have continued our determined struggle against all kinds of tutelage structures.
Immediately after 2002, we faced coup attempts in various forms.
Our nation and our governments representing the will of our nation did not give the opportunity to illegitimate structures that attempted to destroy this will and usurp its sovereignty, coup attempts such as the April 27 e-missile, the 2008 attempt to shut down our party, and the December 17-25, 2013 parallel state structuring.
We have successfully fought and continue to fight against these unconstitutional and undemocratic foci, which pose a threat to our national security, within constitutional limits and with the power we receive from our nation.
All these developments clearly demonstrate the need for a new constitution based on social participation, pluralism, decentralization and democratic checks and balances.
The Republic of Turkey must now leave behind this structure, which is not based on the democratic will of society and is incapable of meeting its needs and expectations for the future.
With the awareness of this fact, we, as the AK Party, identify the need for a new structural transformation and come before our beloved nation with the call to bring Turkey a new civil and democratic constitution based on a social contract and ask for authorization.
b. What We Will Do
The AK Party is determined to crown its second breakthrough period with the new constitution that our people have long been waiting for.
With the great transformations we have made, Turkey is on the threshold of a new social contract.
Convened on April 23rd, 1920 in Ankara, the First Parliament is an important reference in the history of democracy.
Turkey will move forward in the 21st century taking into account the positive experience of the past.
On the other hand, we are going through a very dynamic process on a regional and global scale.
We will not be prisoners of global change.
We will remain the subjects of history; we will shape change by being in change.
We will develop our legal, judicial and constitutional order in line with the expectations of our people and the processes of change we are going through.
The new constitution will carry the achievements of our Republic in human rights and democracy into the future and completely erase the traces of tutelage.
The new constitution will recognize human dignity, individual rights and freedoms and social legitimacy as the moral and democratic foundation of the system and will be designed to meet the expectations of the individual and society for the future.
The AK Party does not see the new constitution as a problem of a party, a group or a segment, but as a historical issue for Turkey.
The AK Party believes that the constitutional system should be transformed according to democratic procedures and the principles of individual and social participation.
We believe that the solution to our fundamental political and social problems lies in further democratization.
The new constitution will be built on freedom, equality and justice;
human dignity will be the fundamental moral reference of the new constitution.
The new constitution will be citizen and society-oriented and will aim to increase the happiness and welfare of our people with a civilian understanding.
With its new structure, our constitution will make it possible to formulate and effectively implement rational political programs in changing world and national conditions.
In the last 13 years, our government has improved the quality of our democracy and realized major reforms to make our country a more democratic country.
We are determined to continue our march towards democratization with rapid steps in this period.
The struggle for democracy that our governments are waging is an effort to make the nation sovereign and us, the elected, subservient.
Our basic principle is to repay the trust that our nation has placed on our shoulders with service to our nation.
The road to democracy is a never-ending marathon for us.
We are aware that there are always higher standards befitting our nation.
With this confidence, we will continue the democratic legacy we have built in the past 13 years by deepening it in the second breakthrough period ahead.
In this period, when the new Turkey will have more solid foundations, the word and the decision will once again belong to our great nation.
We will continue to attach importance to protecting the dignity of free and fair elections and institutionalizing representative democracy, which we see as a prerequisite for participatory democracy.
In the second breakthrough period, we will fight against all kinds of focal points that place themselves above the national will, while ensuring that social tendencies are reflected in politics through democratic processes.
We will ensure more active participation of civil society organizations in governance as a requirement of participatory democracy.
In the new constitution, we will effectively protect the work of political parties and regulate party closures in line with international standards.
Democracy and development go hand in hand.
Every step we take in the field of democracy will also breathe new life and momentum into our development.
In the light of our principles of human development and our ultimate goal of becoming a center of attraction worldwide, we will raise the standards of our democracy to a higher level.
During the first breakthrough period, our governments acted with an understanding that positioned democracy and development side by side and developed both simultaneously, and succeeded in giving Turkey the fastest period of economic development and democratic progress in the history of the Republic.
In the new period, we aim to institutionalize the gains made in our struggle for democracy and make our democracy robust, predictable and permanent.
In the second breakthrough period, we will ensure that the New Turkey is governed by a participatory, pluralist, libertarian, democratic and civilian constitution.
We see the 2004, 2007 and 2010 constitutional amendments led by our governments and the work of the Constitutional Reconciliation Commission in the Parliament as a strong basis for a new constitution.
In the new constitution of the new Turkey, fundamental rights and freedoms, democracy, the rule of law, freedom of thought and belief will be based on social legitimacy.
While our new constitution will be based on individual rights and freedoms, it will be built on Turkey's accumulated experience, and will be prepared with a democratic approach in line with international norms to which we are a party.
The new constitution will be based on a definition of citizenship that recognizes the cultural and social diversity of our nation and makes no reference to any ethnic or religious identity.
The new constitution will not contain value judgments and political preferences that would lead to the exclusion of any segment of society.
Our Constitution will be drafted in a manner that embraces the whole society, reflects our unity of destiny and is based on democratic checks and balances.
The new constitution will be based on shared values and an understanding of unity in diversity.
It will not regulate every area of social life and politics in detail, but will allow each area to develop its own dynamics.
The new constitution will contain the means and tools to solve problems.
Problems will be solved by individuals, society and the political institution in a democratic environment.
The AK Party is aware that a constitutional system is not established with the constitutional text alone.
Electoral laws, the law on political parties and other fundamental laws directly linked to the constitutional system will be renewed as a whole together with the text of the new constitution.
The electoral threshold will be reorganized to ensure a balance between justice in representation and stability in governance.
1.3. Governance Model and Presidential System
Turkey's commitment to participation and pluralism
and an effectively functioning model of government.
With the new constitution, we consider it essential for Turkey to have a government model that is based on participation and pluralism and that functions effectively.
As AK Party, we want a modern and effective government system that guarantees not only representation but also a government to emerge from the elections, that does not allow for instability, and that completely closes the way for the centers of tutelage to be implemented in our country.
The work on the new Constitution will also include the search for an effective and healthy governance model that will facilitate Turkey's achievement of its development goals for 2023 and beyond.
After the 1960 military coup, the current system, which was designed to institutionalize the bureaucracy's tutelage over politics, is far from meeting the minimum democratic requirements of a parliamentary system, even though it is presented as a parliamentary system.
This system has weakened the problem-solving capacity of politics, condemning Turkey to decades of coalition governments, forcing weak and unstable administrations and deepening many deep-rooted political and economic problems.
Contrary to the normative principles of the parliamentary system, the current system assigns the office of the President of the Republic the mission of overseeing the government on behalf of tutelary actors and deprives the relationship between the President and the Prime Minister of the legal and institutional foundations that would enable an effective and coordinated administration.
During the period of our governments, thanks to the democratic reforms implemented, the gains achieved in the fight against tutelage and the strong representation in the parliament, the weaknesses of the current system have been overcome periodically and a stable and effective administration has been achieved.
Following the 2007 constitutional crisis in the presidential elections, the constitutional amendments we pioneered ensured the direct election of the President by the people and the office of the President was freed from the tutelary mission.
However, the division of powers and duties within the political system between the President and the Prime Minister, who are directly elected by the people, necessitates a new arrangement.
Over the last eight years, thanks to the ethic of working together and the sense of service to the nation envisaged by the AK Party's political vision, the potential of the current system to generate crises has been kept under control by ensuring harmonious working between Presidents and Prime Ministers, and the political or economic crises of the past have not been allowed to occur.
However, the current system continues to carry the potential to generate crises if the President and the Prime Minister come from different political traditions.
As the AK Party, we believe that the presidential system will overcome the possible governance problems that may arise from this new situation created by the direct election of the President by the people, taking into account the tutelary fiction of the current system in our political history.
As a matter of fact, we have been advocating the presidential system for a long time, and we have submitted it as our party's proposal to the Constitutional Reconciliation Commission of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, which was established in 2011.
The opposition parties, on the other hand, preferred to discuss the issue in terms of individuals instead of making a positive contribution and conducting a principled and constructive debate to solve the potential problems that the direct election of the President by the people may cause in the functioning of the parliamentary system.
This attitude has had a negative impact on politics and public opinion in the pursuit of an effective and democratic political system.
Moreover, debates on the presidential system tend to overlook the fact that many democratic countries with strong economies are governed by this model.
In this framework, we have to continue the search for a system that fits our vision of a new Turkey and find a solution, without personalizing the debate, and by drawing on the experiences of our political tradition.
The ground on which government models will be discussed will undoubtedly be a democratic constitutional ground.
As the AK Party, we believe that there is no difference between the parliamentary system and the presidential system in terms of compatibility with democracy when structured from a democratic perspective.
As a matter of fact, both systems can have positive examples as well as negative ones.
However, we believe that the presidential system is a more appropriate model of governance due to the political instabilities caused by the parliamentary system, which has been detached from its democratic nature by being constructed in a tutelary manner, on the one hand, and the effective and dynamic governance required by our New Turkey vision, on the other.
In the new system, we will definitely not allow parallel structures that are not accountable to the legitimate political authority.
With the libertarian and human-oriented new Constitution that we will prepare with the kindness of our nation, elections will be able to produce stability,
where the legislature and the executive are independently effective,
democratic checks and balances are envisaged,
political representation of social diversity,
a decentralized administrative system is strengthened,
decision-making processes are accelerated,
We can move to a new political system where all kinds of tutelage are prevented.
In this framework, the presidential system we envision will finalize the democratic transformation Turkey has undergone under the AK Party's rule and will have a framework that will facilitate the achievement of its development goals for 2023 and beyond.
With these elements, we believe that the presidential system is better suited to Turkey's political experience and future vision.
1.4. Transformation in the Justice System
As AK Party, we see justice as the foundation of property and legitimacy and the basis of the rule of law.
For us, justice should be based on the rule of law, trusted by all, independent from all power centers, impartial and able to respond quickly to citizen demands.
The judiciary provides a guarantee of law,
It is our fundamental principle that it operates in accordance with international standards and democratic procedures.
We believe that the judicial power, which we see as a function required and produced by the social order, should be provided with a framework that inspires confidence, ensures predictability, does not dictate ideology, political imagination or belief, and is not influenced by these.
We do not see the judiciary only as an institution that ensures justice and guarantees the exercise of fundamental rights.
We believe that in the predictable environment provided by the law, uncertainty will decrease, production and investment decisions will be made in a healthier and more qualified manner, and thus our development process will accelerate.
a. What We Did
In the last 13 years, we have made fundamental improvements in the justice system and significantly reduced problems.
We abolished provisions in the Constitution that prevented citizens from seeking their rights, and we increased the ways for citizens to seek their rights.
We ended the trial of civilians in military courts.
We have made it a constitutional rule that the Military Court of Cassation and the Military High Administrative Court shall function in accordance with the requirements of the rule of law.
We removed from the Constitution provisions that prohibited the right to seek remedies before the courts against the dismissal decisions of the Supreme Military Council, the warning and reprimand penalties imposed on public officials, and the HSYK's dismissal decisions on judges and prosecutors.
We put an end to special trial procedures.
We abolished the State Security Courts, the Special Authorized Courts established under Article 250 of the Criminal Procedure Code, and the Special Authorized Courts established under Article 10 of the Anti-Terror Law.
We strengthened judicial independence and impartiality.
We restructured the High Council of Judges and Prosecutors (HSYK), which only consists of members from the Supreme Courts, on a broad-based basis.
For the first time, we enabled judges and prosecutors to elect members to the Council.
We have strengthened the judicial organization and introduced innovations for a more qualified justice service in a reasonable time.
We have increased the number of judges, prosecutors and personnel for fast and fair trials.
In 2002, we increased the number of judges and prosecutors from 9,349 to 14,782 as of September 2015.
Excluding those working in penal institutions, the number of our personnel increased from 26,274 in 2002 to 58,284 as of September 2015.
We have increased the number of first instance courts to ensure trial within a reasonable time.
In 2015, we increased the number of courts in the judicial judiciary from 3,581 in 2002 to 6,022, and the number of courts in the administrative judiciary from 146 to 206.
We initiated time management in the judiciary for trial in a reasonable time.
In order to provide more qualified services to our citizens, we increased the number of specialized personnel such as sociologists, psychologists, social workers and pedagogues working in the justice organization, especially in family and juvenile courts and penal execution institutions.
We strengthened training activities to improve the quality of judges, prosecutors and staff.
We established the Justice Academy of Turkey.
We strengthened the high courts and courts of first instance.
We increased the number of departments and members of the Court of Cassation and Council of State for faster trials.
We strengthened the Supreme Courts in terms of prosecutors, examining judges and personnel.
We introduced arbitration and mediation to strengthen pre-judicial remedies.
We abolished the criminal courts of peace and replaced them with criminal judgeships of peace, which are exclusively responsible for dealing with matters directly related to personal liberty and security.
Thus, we have secured individual freedoms by introducing the "liberty judgeship" in some EU countries.
We have improved our institutional structure for the resolution of disputes arising from family law.
We gave importance to specialization for more qualified judicial services.
We have enabled increased specialization in criminal and civil courts and administrative courts.
We have developed new remedies for the judicial review of decisions taken by first instance courts.
With the National Judicial Network Project (UYAP), we have eliminated many of the reasons delaying the trial.
In the period when UYAP did not exist, it took months of correspondence and replies for our citizens to access information and documents such as population, land registry, trade registry records, etc., but with the UYAP application, our citizens can access this information and records in seconds.
While services in the courthouses were carried out with typewriters, within the scope of UYAP, we equipped the courthouses with computers since 2002 and provided laptops to all judges and prosecutors, enabling them to carry out their work electronically.
Our citizens are instantly informed about judicial proceedings against them through the SMS Information System.
With the Audio and Video Information System (SEGBİS), we connected courts, prosecutor's offices and penal institutions with a separate video conferencing network.
Now, with the remote statement-taking method, the statements of our citizens can be taken from the penal institution or from a courthouse in another location.
With this practice, we have accelerated judicial services on the one hand and made life easier for our citizens on the other.
We renewed all the Basic Laws.
We carried out a comprehensive legislative reform.
We amended the Turkish Penal Code, the Code of Civil Procedure, the Code of Obligations, the Code of Criminal Procedure and the Turkish Commercial Code.
We removed the obstacles preventing those who cannot afford to benefit from justice services.
We ensured that anyone who does not have a lawyer in criminal investigations or trials will be assigned a lawyer upon request and will be exempt from legal costs.
For the first time, we introduced the practice of appointing lawyers for crime victims by the state.
We have made it easier for our citizens by changing the legislation on criminal records.
By introducing the practice of district governorships issuing criminal record certificates in addition to public prosecutor's offices, we prevented our citizens from waiting in line at the courthouse gates and facilitated the work of our citizens in places where there is no prosecutor's office.
Prisoners and convicts are entitled to compassionate leave in the event of serious illness or death of a relative.
We implemented a regulation that allows prisoners to have private family visits for certain periods of time.
We modernized the enforcement and bankruptcy offices and put an end to the victimization caused by enforcement and bankruptcy proceedings.
By prohibiting the seizure of items necessary for the debtor and family members living under the same roof, we have eliminated the grievances that have been experienced for years.
We prevented possible irregularities by ensuring that the payments to be made to the enforcement offices are made entirely through the bank.
We introduced a license requirement for trustee warehouses to ensure the healthy storage of our citizens' goods.
We have introduced the possibility of electronic bidding for auctions in order to prevent the sale of seized goods below their value and thus protect the rights of debtors and creditors.
We built modern justice palaces all over our country.
Until 2003, the total indoor area of justice services was 570 thousand square meters, while the total indoor area of the 212 justice palaces completed and put into service reached 3 million square meters.
We facilitated the work of our citizens in courthouses by establishing front offices and information desks in justice palaces with all kinds of technical equipment.
We have completed the modernization of the penal system.
We introduced "supervised release" for many convicts serving their sentences for simple crimes to serve their sentences outside.
We are closing prisons that do not meet international standards.
In this context, we closed 244 prisons in 13 years.
We increased the number of open penal institutions.
The ratio of detainees to prisoners, which is accepted as an important parameter of the criminal justice system worldwide, decreased from 54 percent in 2001 to 15 percent as of today.
In the European Union, this rate is more than 20 percent.
b. What We Will Do
In the period ahead, one of our main priorities will be to make fundamental reforms in our justice system to create a structure at advanced standards.
We see the judiciary not as a political power, but as a function required and produced by the social order.
We will restructure our judicial system according to this understanding and within the framework of a well-prepared strategy.
Recognizing that our country has suffered greatly from political and ideological judiciary, the AK Party sees the independence and impartiality of the judiciary as a means of securing the ability to respond to the demands for justice.
In this context, we will strengthen participation, democratic legitimacy and transparency as fundamental principles.
A well-functioning legal system is indispensable for a healthy democratic politics as well as for the promotion and enforcement of fundamental rights.
The rule of law is also a fundamental condition for quality and sustainable development.
Legal safeguards and predictability are vital for improving the business and investment climate.
As a democratic country, Turkey is committed to protecting the freedoms of its citizens through the rule of law,
to reassure the international community,
will continue to be a safe haven for domestic and foreign investors.
In order for legislation to have these qualities, we will ensure that it is developed through democratic procedures and that the "freedom-security balance" is respected.
We will take European standards into account for this.
We will remove the details that can be created by secondary regulations from the laws and put an end to the inflation of legislation.
We will effectively implement and realize the new Judicial Reform Strategy Document.
We will ensure efficiency, speed, accountability, economy and transparency in the judiciary.
In line with constitutional amendments, we will eliminate the disorganization at the level of jurisprudence in the higher judiciary.
In this framework, the military judiciary will operate within the framework of disciplinary courts.
We will reduce the influence of appellate courts over lower courts beyond judicial review and limit appeals to judicial review.
We will strengthen the role of Parliament in the formation of the judiciary's top management and appellate courts,
thereby increasing the social legitimacy of the judiciary.
We will ensure that the Supreme Courts, regional and administrative courts and courts of first instance prepare and publicize annual reports.
We will limit high court membership to reasonable terms, similar to European examples.
We will increase the number of specialized courts.
We will ensure that some specialized courts, such as the commercial and labor courts, will also include lay judges.
We will restructure the HSYK and establish the High Council of Judges and the High Council of Prosecutors.
We will determine the rules of professional ethics and behavior of members of the judiciary according to international criteria.
We will make arrangements for the implementation of legal services for the benefit of society within the framework of certain rules.
We will strengthen legal education.
In this context, entrance requirements for law faculties will be designed to ensure adequate knowledge, and legal education will be reorganized in a way to ensure the harmony between theoretical knowledge and practice in terms of content, taking into account comparative examples.
We will organize vocational training in the field of justice in a way that will enable measurement and evaluation throughout the professional life.
We will further increase efforts to ensure that members of the judiciary closely follow international developments in their fields.
We will restructure the institution of expert witness.
We will set standards for the selection and appointment of expert witnesses and introduce a certification system.
We will remove the institution of expert witness from being a profession that is a means of livelihood and take the necessary measures to ensure that it functions in accordance with its real function.
We will limit judges' recourse to experts to clarifying a purely technical issue, outside the legal nature of the dispute.
It will emphasize alternative dispute resolution methods in all branches of law,
We will strengthen the right to defense and legal aid to facilitate access to justice.
We will mainstream the protective and preventive legal approach.
We will review this practice in view of the possibility that the excessive workload brought to the Constitutional Court by the individual application may harm the functionality of the court.
We will implement facilitating practices for women, children and persons with disabilities in the justice system.
We will develop practices for victims, vulnerable groups and access to justice.
We will ensure the determination of ideal trial times across the country and the implementation of time management in the judiciary.
In order for our citizens to receive justice services more easily, we will develop a Legal Aid (Protection) Insurance System, which is applied in many developed countries.
We will increase the opportunities and improve the quality of the legal aid system for those who cannot afford it.
We will restructure the notary system and utilize notaries to reduce the workload of the administration and judicial bodies.
We will strengthen the capacity of the justice system to address domestic violence crimes.
We will ensure that courts of appeal become operational in the judicial and administrative judiciary.
We will continue to build courthouses, especially in big cities.
We will make the penal system effective to prevent repeat offenders.
We will continue to raise the standards of penal institutions.
We will make the probation system more effective and increase public-civil society cooperation.
We will improve the capacity for justice statistics, ensure that statistics are harmonized with international practices, and develop policies based on sound statistics.
We will ensure the further activation of information services in the judiciary, particularly UYAP.
We will expand the Audio and Video Information System (SEGBİS), which we have launched as a step forward in this field, throughout the country.
We will improve the capacity of the Forensic Medicine Institution.
We will expand services in this area across the country and ensure that waiting times for files and reports are shortened even further.
We will also establish the Academy of Forensic Sciences to facilitate advanced research and training in this field.
We will activate international judicial cooperation activities and enhance judicial cooperation at regional and bilateral levels.
1.5. Security
Our understanding of politics puts human beings and human dignity at the center.
The guarantee of this dignity is the balance between freedom and security.
These are not mutually exclusive but complementary concepts.
We have reconsidered the state's approach to security, which was shaped by concerns and fears in the past, on the basis of citizen trust, and emphasized an approach that will strengthen the state-society-individual relationship.
As AK Party, we define security services as a basic public service needed to guarantee and fully exercise fundamental rights and freedoms in order to achieve the goal of an advanced democracy.
With the freedom-security balance that we take as the basis of our actions, we are realizing our principle of living freedoms in security and within the framework of the rule of law.
a. What We Did
With our AK Party governments, the understanding of security has changed.
In our actions, we have seen security as a means of securing freedoms and protecting the democratic will of the nation and public order.
From public order incidents to the fight against terrorism, we have endeavored to establish the security of our country at the highest level and to improve social peace and tranquility by implementing more effective and result-oriented security policies.
We redesigned the security service with a mindset that includes community support and adopted a people-oriented approach in the delivery of services.
We have revised our legislation according to this approach.
We restructured security institutions accordingly.
According to the results of the "Life Satisfaction Survey" conducted by TurkStat, public order services ranked first in the ranking of public services with the highest level of citizen satisfaction.
We established the Undersecretariat for Public Order and Security to coordinate policies and strategies in the fight against terrorism.
We enacted the Law on Prevention of Financing of Terrorism to combat terrorism and its financing.
As AK Party governments, we have fought and continue to fight against elements that threaten our national security and public order.
Recently, our democracy has faced attacks by parallel organizations within the state.
In this process, the law was instrumentalized and used for ideological purposes.
With the great support of our people, we did not allow these attempts, which can also be called the new tutelage structure.
We will never allow any activity aimed at disintegrating the state authority, no matter from whom it originates or with what intentions.
We will not leave the will, sovereignty and future of our nation to anyone.
AK Party cadres will continue to stand resolutely against those who want to stop this blessed march, whether under the name of parallel structure or other names.
Just as we fought against the old tutelage, we will continue our struggle against the new tutelage attempts with the common sense and support of our nation.
Considering their international connections, these elements are not only a threat to our government, but have turned into a national security problem that threatens the existence of the state and aims to collapse its structure.
No citizen should doubt that we will stand firm and resolute in the face of this threat.
Similar to the practices in developed democracies, we established the Security and Intelligence Commission for intelligence services, which are important for our national security, and opened them to parliamentary scrutiny.
We have improved the capabilities of our security units and met their needs at the maximum level.
We have completed Urban Security Management Systems in provincial centers and 225 district centers outside metropolitan municipalities.
We have provided 81 provinces and large districts, especially in tourism regions, with MOBESE systems that make a great contribution to crime prevention and enlightenment.
We have established modern criminal laboratories with the most advanced technological facilities in crime and incident investigation.
We launched the Emergency Call Centers Project, which aims to bring together multiple emergency call numbers under a single number (112), and have already put it into operation in 12 provinces.
We have given great importance and priority to preventive law enforcement services in order to prevent crimes before they are committed.
Thanks to the advanced technology and expertise developed, we have become one of the most successful countries in solving crimes and incidents.
In the past, Turkey was one of the countries accused of "unidentified perpetrators", but during our period in power, we have brought Turkey to a record that is praised, not criticized.
We have prepared an action plan to combat cybercrime and established a special unit within the General Directorate of Security.
By implementing the Community Supported Policing practice, we ensured that our police have closer relations with our citizens, increased trust in the police, and police-public cooperation.
We have formed special teams to combat public order crimes, which are among the leading crimes that disturb the peace of society and cause fear and anxiety.
We have made significant progress in the fight against terrorism, drugs, smuggling and organized crime.
We established the Department of Narcotics within the General Directorate of Security in order to fight drugs more effectively.
We established NARKOTIMs especially around schools.
We focused on trainings that will ensure the specialization of security officers.
We implemented projects to increase the administrative and technical capacity of our border security units.
With the policies we have implemented and the actions we have taken, we have made Turkey one of the countries with the lowest crime rate in Europe in terms of security and public order.
Today, our country is among the leading countries in Europe in terms of crime clearance rates.
b. What We Will Do
As the AK Party, we will continue to decisively and without compromise to crack down on all structures that may disrupt the security and public order environment and create pressure and threats for our citizens to exercise their constitutional right to freedoms.
We will fight with determination against the environment and focal points that support international and regional terrorism, as we have done so far.
We will maintain our principled stance against terrorism in our geography, no matter where it originates and from whom it comes.
This stance and struggle will be based on the rule of law;
will further support security services with mechanisms to increase transparency, participation and accountability,
We will further strengthen the trust of our citizens in the security services.
In this context, we will continue to implement policies that embrace all segments of society and facilitate access to security services, especially for women, children, disabled and elderly citizens.
In the coming period, the national fight against terrorism, organized crime, cybercrime, narcotic crimes and smuggling
and strengthen cooperation between international organizations,
We will continue our determined fight against these crimes as we have done until today.
We will increase security measures to combat drugs and continue to crack down on criminal organizations in this field with determination.
In this context, we will strengthen our personnel and technical capacity in combating the illicit production, trade and use of narcotics.
We will improve coordination among organizations active in the fight against drugs and increase cooperation with neighboring countries and in the international arena.
We will prioritize preventive and protective security services and move towards risk management.
In the coming period, the relationship between citizens and law enforcement will be based on trust. We will strengthen the community supported law enforcement approach.
We will review the functions of law enforcement agencies and restructure them with a civilian approach.
In this context, we will strengthen the connection of the Gendarmerie Organization with the Ministry of Interior and ensure that law enforcement services are carried out with a holistic understanding.
With the awareness that security is a public service, we will create the necessary environment for our security personnel to treat our citizens well and we will emphasize in-service training for this purpose.
We will establish a new, professional border police organization responsible for the protection of our borders.
We are determined to take all measures to improve the quality and quantity of our personnel in the field of security services and to ensure their professionalization.
We will restructure the institutions that train personnel for the police force and reorganize the training method.
We will improve the training of private security personnel, raise their quality, review their duties and powers, and place more emphasis on their supervision.
Missing Alert on finding a missing child,
International Police Training Center (UPEM),
Demining of Turkey's Eastern Borders
and Construction of Removal Centers projects.
We will expand Emergency Call Centers across the country.
1.6. Governance
As AK Party, we have always opposed a sharp distinction between the rulers and the ruled.
Instead, we have endeavored to define problems together and seek solutions together.
Instead of imposing rules on our people, we have taken steps to make life easier on the way to serving the people.
We acted on the principle of producing more services at less cost.
We tried to meet the needs and demands of our people without wasting our resources.
We have adopted a service approach that looks at the problems from the people and produces solutions, based on the demands of the people with the authority and power it receives from the people.
With this understanding, we see public services as the main mission of public administration to facilitate the lives of our citizens and provide them with easy access to basic public services.
As AK Party governments, which have adopted a people-oriented management style, we know that we owe it to our citizens to continue our understanding of service race and to provide better quality services to our citizens by continuing to raise the bar continuously.
With this understanding, we continuously improve our public administration and public employees with modern methods and increase their effectiveness through innovative practices.
As AK Party, we see public administration as an area that requires continuous improvement.
We adopt an innovative approach based on human dignity in the face of changing conditions and understandings.
We are reviewing our management approach, structure and practices in a participatory approach against bureaucratic inertia and routinization.
We are committed to continuously improving our quality of work and life with political ownership under the watchful eye of our citizens.
Public administration is critical to the overall quality of our country.
A well-functioning, transparent and accountable public administration also facilitates the development of the economy and civil society in an enabling environment.
The period ahead will be one in which quality will be at the forefront in the field of governance, as it is in every field.
The restructuring of public administration in terms of mindset, strategy and organization will also support the establishment and development of quality standards in key areas.
a. What We Did
In our 13 years in power, we have implemented democratic governance practices based on the principle that "the state exists to serve the nation".
We ensured that strategic plans, performance programs and annual reports, the three main elements of strategic management, are disseminated across public institutions and shared with the public.
We expanded the audit area of the Court of Accounts and eliminated the double-headedness in auditing by transferring the Prime Ministry High Auditing Board to the Court of Accounts.
With the Ombudsman Institution, we have taken an important step towards better functioning of the administration and reducing the workload of the administrative judiciary.
We are expanding the employment of internal auditors to improve the quality of management in public institutions.
We regulated the relations between the center and local governments in order to ensure effectiveness and efficiency in the public sector and to make life easier for our citizens.
In this context, we implemented the Laws on Municipalities, Metropolitan Municipalities, Special Provincial Administration and Local Administration Unions.
We strengthened local governments.
We changed the rates and distribution principles of the shares to be allocated to local governments.
In addition to the population criterion, we have developed new criteria for special administrations, such as the area of the provinces, the number of villages and the population of rural areas, as well as the development index, making it possible to allocate more resources to regions with high service areas and high needs.
We reduced the number of municipalities by terminating the legal personality of first-tier municipalities within metropolitan municipalities.
We established 14 new metropolitan municipalities and expanded the boundaries of existing metropolitan municipalities to provincial borders.
By centralizing services, we achieved economies of scale.
We paved the way for increased efficiency, coordination and quality in services.
We simplified the documents required by public administrations for service delivery and introduced the declaration principle for many information.
With e-Government services, we reduced the financial and administrative burden on citizens and entrepreneurs by providing many public services frequently used by them in electronic environment.
We have made significant progress in building a transparent, accountable and participatory public administration.
By launching the National Judicial Network Project (UYAP), we connected many institutions such as courthouses, civil registry, land registry and law enforcement agencies with electronic networks.
We accelerated the proceedings with this practice, which resulted in significant savings;
We have enabled our citizens and lawyers to carry out transactions such as filing lawsuits, submitting petitions and depositing fees electronically.
By launching the Central Population Administration System (MERNİS), we made it possible for our citizens to instantly obtain civil registration samples and identity cards from the civil registry offices where they reside.
With the Address Registration System (ARS), we ensured that the address information of our citizens is kept up-to-date electronically.
We put an end to the disorganization of addresses.
We have transformed the censuses, which were conducted in the past in an unhealthy way, at high costs and by restricting the freedoms of our citizens, with a modern understanding.
We are now able to measure the size and some basic parameters of our population at the end of each year through an address-based system.
By establishing the Identity Sharing System to share the information on MERNIS and AKS with relevant institutions, we ensured that many public services can be carried out without requesting documents.
We established the Central Registry Registration System (MERSIS), which allows new company registration and trade registry transactions to be carried out electronically.
We ensured that trade registry records are transferred to the electronic environment.
Providing reliable land information through the Land Registry and Cadastre Information System (TAKBIS);
We ensured the digitalization of land registries and cadastral maps.
We made the database available to the relevant public institutions.
We have brought our Republic of Turkey Identity Card Project, which will be used for authentication and authorization in accessing public services, to the final stage of card distribution.
We launched the e-Government Gateway, which aims to provide integrated public services from a single point and through different channels, with 22 public services.
As of September 2015, 1,300 services of 197 public institutions had been integrated into the Gateway and the number of registered users reached approximately 24.2 million.
We made it possible for young people under 18 to benefit from e-government services.
We are expanding electronic document management system applications in order to save time and resources by standardizing internal and external correspondence processes in public institutions.
Within the framework of preparations for the e-Correspondence Project, which will enable official correspondence between public institutions to be conducted electronically, we completed the pilot implementation and started the process of extending e-Correspondence to all public institutions.
Thanks to the Electronic Public Procurement Platform (EKAP), we enabled real and legal persons registered in the system to download tender documents using e-signatures, and contracting authorities to prepare tender documents electronically and to make certain queries for information purposes.
We launched the Sağlık.NET system in order to provide health services more effectively and efficiently.
We launched the Central Hospital Appointment System, which allows our citizens to make appointments with the hospitals and physicians of their choice via the Alo182 line or on the web.
In Turkey, we established the MEDULA system to collect billing information electronically between the general health insurance and health facilities and to realize the payment of service fees.
We implemented the e-School Project, which provides information to parents and students through alternative channels.
We ensured that scholarship, loan and dormitory applications can be received online from a single point and the results are announced.
We launched the Electronic Invoice Registration System, which enables companies operating in Turkey to transfer their invoices to the Revenue Administration in a virtual environment.
We have brought the Electronic Ledger Application to the stage of use.
As a result of all these practices, in the e-Government Benchmarking Report published by the EU in 2013, Turkey was ranked above the EU27+ average in the indicators of "maturity of e-government services" and "ease of use in the provision of online services".
According to the results of the TurkStat Life Satisfaction Survey, the satisfaction rate with our e-government services is 95.7 percent.
b. What We Will Do
In the period ahead, we will transform central units into a smaller but more effective structure and improve their performance in order to ensure fair, effective, efficient, swift and quality delivery of public services.
We will establish a "reform task force" under the coordination of a Deputy Prime Minister to effectively implement the public administration reform and strengthen coordination.
New arrangements will be made in the Public Financial Management and Control System based on the EU Acquis and International norms.
In this framework;
Strengthening the public financial management system by redefining the duties, authorities and responsibilities related to the internal control and internal audit system;
Ensuring effective control of expenditures by redefining the preliminary financial control; Ensuring
uniformity in the public financial management system by assigning authority and responsibility to all public institutions regarding the strategic plan, performance program, activity report, internal control, internal audit, expenditure authority and accounting system.
We will shorten the processes such as obtaining permission from our public institutions and organizations and asking for opinions.
We will take measures to ensure that public institutions and organizations conclude their work and transactions among themselves more efficiently and quickly.
We will set out the basic principles that public institutions must comply with as a whole.
We will increase the effectiveness of the implementation of principles such as participation, transparency, accountability, effectiveness, focus on the results of services, simplicity in bureaucratic procedures, and utilization of information technologies.
We will further strengthen the strategic thinking dimension in public institutions and emphasize the approach based on strategic plans in resource utilization.
We will make the public administration focused on the services our citizens need, open to the external environment, and in line with the requirements of competition and the information society.
We will continue to review the current structure of public administrations in terms of their duties, powers and functions by following developments in our country and globally and innovations within the framework of modern public administration understanding.
We will make institutional arrangements to eliminate duplication in this area.
We will strengthen the policy-making, standard development and audit units of the central administration and increase their effectiveness at the strategic level.
In parallel with improving the human resources of provincial organizations and local administrations, we will continue to expand their operational flexibility and financial resources.
We will reorganize the relations between the central administration and local governments in line with the European Charter of Local Governments.
We will also implement a legal arrangement based on decentralization, empowerment of local governments and effective supervision to prevent abuses.
Taking into account the importance of economies of scale in ensuring efficiency in the delivery of services, we will work towards organizing our service units in appropriate scales.
We will set nationwide minimum service standards for the services provided by the Central Government and Local Administrations, and we will audit compliance with these standards by the central administration.
We will activate our state personnel regime and make manpower planning in the public sector.
We will develop measures to employ sufficient and qualified personnel in relatively underdeveloped regions.
We will strengthen citizen oversight through existing and new mechanisms.
We will strengthen internal audit and performance-based external audit in public administrations.
We will vigorously implement and follow up the Regulatory Impact Analysis in the public sector.
We will strengthen coordination between ministries on strategic management.
In order not to ignore the managerial dimension of strategic management, we will include strategic management expertise in the process, which is usually implemented by financial management experts in administrations.
We will work on rationalizing the foreign representation of public institutions.
We will implement effective training programs for the development of public personnel, especially senior managers.
We will establish a management and organizational structure to ensure that e-Government activities are carried out in a strong and effective coordination at the supra-agency and inter-agency levels.
By implementing the Digital Turkey Project, we will ensure that all works and transactions of our citizens are concluded virtually without going to public institutions and organizations.
In early 2015, within the framework of our Information Society Strategy, we will prepare the e-Government Strategy and Action Plan and establish the necessary mechanism for monitoring and evaluating the implementation.
We will ensure that local government services are provided electronically, in common norms and standards, and increase the number of local government services integrated into the e-Government Gateway.
We will realize the Spatial Address Registration System (MAKS), National Geographic Information System Infrastructure, Public Secure Network, Public Integrated Data Center projects, which are among the basic information systems and common infrastructures needed in e-Government service delivery.
We will ensure that public institutions, including local governments, prepare periodic IT strategies for the provision of e-government services.
We will ensure that the data collected and produced by public institutions and organizations are shared by taking information security measures in order to create new initiatives, contribute to the understanding of transparent public administration and enable more scientific studies.
We will continue to develop e-Government applications and services and migrate them to the e-Government Gateway.
We will ensure that our citizens apply to public institutions and organizations through e-government as much as possible.
We will prepare Turkey Geographic Information Strategy and Action Plan.
We will complete the distribution of the Turkish ID Card to all citizens and ensure its widespread use in e-government services.
We will establish an integrated city management information system to provide urban services in a fast, healthy and economically sustainable manner.
We will create smart cities.
We will ensure that electronic public services are provided to users from different platforms in an interoperable and integrated structure and that our citizens are not asked for duplicate information.
We will implement the Public Cloud Project to integrate public data centers and provide efficient service.
We will implement big data applications in the public sector.
We will develop ICT-supported participation practices in public administration and restructure Prime Ministry BIMER as an element of participatory governance mechanism.
Improving the quality of policy-making and implementation processes in public administrations is closely linked to sound statistics.
We will continue to take further steps in the field of statistics, which not only forms the basis for economic and social policies, but also the basis for accountability in a democratic society.
We aim to increase the quality and number of shared and reliable statistics, expand the range of statistics that should be produced in line with national and international needs, and keep administrative records in a healthy way with our "Program for Improving Statistical Information Infrastructure", which we have prepared as a priority transformation program.
With the program, we will determine the statistics that can be produced in accordance with international standards, taking into account the needs and priorities of national and international users.
We will establish an internet portal that gathers all statistics published by TurkStat and other institutions and organizations under a single roof and ensure its functionality.
We will establish an international data submission system and ensure that data submissions are made through this system.
We will inventory the administrative records kept by institutions and identify the administrative records to be included in the National Registry System (NRS).
We will ensure that the administrative records of institutions and organizations involved in the official statistics production process are made available to TURKSTAT for use in statistics production.
We will establish units in institutions that can conduct statistical analysis.
We will standardize the variables used in the statistical production process.
We will ensure the use of the national registry system standard in the data infrastructures of institutions.
1.7. Transparency
As the Justice and Development Party, we see transparency as indispensable for the accountability of governments in a democratic environment.
Transparency is as necessary for efficiency as it is for justice.
Transparency also has an important function in preventing the use of public resources, facilities and practices for personal benefit and preventing unfair competition.
Transparency is a key determinant of improving quality in governance.
As AK Party, our basic motto is that all the work we carry out on behalf of our citizens, whom we see as the true and sole owners of the state, should be carried out in a transparent, participatory and accountable manner.
With this motto, we know that the basis of a successful and transparent administration based on the needs and demands of our citizens is justice-based.
This is the basis of our determination to fight corruption in our public administration policies and practices.
We see it as part of our understanding of the democratic rule of law to keep our people informed and accountable to them at the highest political and bureaucratic level when necessary.
a. What We Did
Since the day we were founded as AK Party, we have adopted the struggle in 3 main areas as our motto.
These are prohibitions, poverty and corruption, which we also call the 3Ys.
We said that the fight against corruption starts with an accountable budget.
We have not only increased the budget, but we have also held our people accountable for the budget and the resources we have used.
By starting transparency from our Party, we shared all our revenues and expenses with our citizens in an exemplary way.
We enacted and implemented the Public Financial Management and Control Law.
We have assigned responsibility for each expenditure to the government departments where it is incurred, and we have enabled audits of expenditures.
We strengthened fiscal transparency by ensuring the production of reliable and periodic financial data.
Within the framework of the principles of accountability and financial transparency in the public sector, we enacted the Law on Court of Accounts to ensure that public administrations operate effectively, economically, efficiently and in accordance with the law, by expanding the scope of audit and including performance audit.
We enacted the Banking Law to ensure confidence, stability and transparency in financial markets, the effective functioning of the credit system and the protection of the rights and interests of savers.
In 13 years, we have taken great steps towards transparency in public administration.
Public tenders that were held behind closed doors before us are now broadcast live on TV.
We launched the Strategy for Increasing Transparency and Strengthening the Fight against Corruption.
We amended the Laws on Municipalities, Metropolitan Municipalities, Special Provincial Administrations and Local Administration Unions in order to increase the institutional capacity of local governments and strengthen decentralization and democracy by ensuring participation and transparency.
With the Right to Information Law we put into practice, we paved the way for our citizens to access all kinds of information and documents they need, except for the exceptions specified in the law.
We established BIMER, which monitors citizen complaints through e-government applications.
Through the Ombudsman Institution, we have provided our citizens with the right to accountability.
We established the Ethics Committee for Public Officials to determine ethical rules and standards for public officials and to investigate complaints against senior public officials who violate these principles.
By enacting the Press Law, we ensured the most widespread and rapid circulation of ideas and news and the informing of the public.
By implementing the Law on Prevention of Laundering Proceeds of Crime and the Anti-Smuggling Law, we aimed to strengthen cooperation with the financial sector in the fight against crime, establish a strong data system and ensure harmonization with international developments.
In order to fight against corruption more effectively, penal regulations for individuals were first introduced under our government.
We enacted the Law on Misdemeanors, which allows administrative fines to be imposed on private legal entities.
We have amended the Turkish Penal Code on corruption crimes such as bribery, extortion, embezzlement and laundering of assets derived from crime, which can be committed by Turkish or foreign public officials.
In order to establish an effective system in the fight against corruption, we introduced new measures and regulations with the amendment we made to the Criminal Procedure Law.
With the amendment made to the Foreign Direct Investment Law, we created a clear, comprehensible and transparent direct investment legislation that takes into account the needs and expectations of investors.
We launched the "national marker" practice, which was put into effect as part of the fight against fuel smuggling.
We worked on the prevention of laundering proceeds of crime.
Internationally, the UN Convention on the Criminalization of Bribery,
The Council of Europe Civil Law Convention against Corruption,
OECD Convention on Combating Bribery of Foreign Public Officials in International Business Transactions,
United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime,
The Council of Europe Convention on Laundering, Search, Seizure and Confiscation of the Proceeds from Crime,
Criminal Law Convention against Corruption,
Convention on the Taking of Evidence in Foreign Countries in Civil and Commercial Matters,
We signed the United Nations Convention against Corruption.
Furthermore, Turkey became a member of the Council of Europe's Group of States against Corruption (GRECO) in 2004.
b. What We Will Do
As the AK Party, we are committed to being transparent, participatory and accountable in the new period as we were in the previous period, while managing the public sector on their behalf, with the awareness that the real owner of the public sector is our citizens.
Systematic measurement and sharing of implementation and post-implementation impacts, as well as during the preparation phase, will be emphasized more in the coming period as a requirement of transparency.
In the second breakthrough period, we will strengthen our participatory democracy with a more transparent and accountable governance approach, and we will continue our fight against all forms of corruption with determination.
Recognizing that the establishment of transparency and the fight against corruption requires a mindset and cultural transformation, we aim to advance in all areas, starting with the individual.
Based on the principle that the fight against corruption requires a holistic approach, we will ensure a healthy government-citizen-civil society and media dialogue.
We will rapidly implement the Transparency Package we shared with the public.
We will introduce the obligation for political parties to declare their resources before the elections.
We will amend the Law on Basic Provisions on Elections and Voter Registers and the Law on Political Parties to make the financing of political parties and election campaigns transparent.
We will ensure transparency and ensure that cash contributions to parliamentary and mayoral candidates are deposited into election accounts opened in their names.
We will introduce some restrictions on in-kind and cash aid to candidates and political parties.
We will ensure that the amount of donations made to political parties is announced electronically and that the audit of election accounts and expenditures is carried out and the results are announced electronically.
After the announcement of the election results, we will ensure that the election balance sheets of political parties are announced electronically.
We will ensure that it is clear where parties use the aid they receive.
We will ensure that asset declarations are transparent.
We will establish information infrastructures that will enable electronic submission and comparison of property declarations.
These will be reported electronically and anyone who wants to will be able to see who has what income and what income.
We will reduce the renewal period for the declaration of assets from 5 years to 2 years and abolish interim declarations.
We will ensure that the President and members of the Supreme Court and the heads of departments declare their assets to the Presidency of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey.
We will make it effective that public officials and senior bureaucrats who leave their posts cannot do business with their former workplace for up to 2 years and cannot work in companies related to their duties after leaving office.
We will ensure that the rent arising from value increases in zoning plans will be transferred to municipalities and ministries for use in urban transformation.
We will renew zoning practices from top to bottom.
We will ensure that a value increase share is paid before the first sale of the immovable property after the plan change or before the building license stage.
Policies and practices directly targeting people and society have been among the main priorities of the AK Party governments.
Our party has adopted the principle of let the people live so that the state can live.
The concept of the social state has been strongly implemented in all areas of life.
Social policies are not only valuable in themselves, but are also taken as a fundamental touchstone for all other policy areas.
This approach has been a concrete reflection of our human-centered approach.
As the Justice and Development Party, we see human beings as the very purpose of development and we know that qualified, healthy and well-equipped people are the greatest tool in achieving this goal.
We believe that we will achieve the goals we desire in the fields of science and technology, which we see as a prerequisite for making a breakthrough in the economy, with our well-trained and well-equipped people.
We are aware that improvements in our social and human capital trigger economic development, increase democratization and raise our country's visibility in the world.
With this approach, improving the quality of education,
delivering effective health care,
preserving and developing the dynamism of the population and the family structure,
women, youth, children
and we will continue to be a government that gives its employees the place, importance and support they deserve.
While we see our children as potential youth and our youth as the guarantee of our future, we will continue our human-centered development approach by providing them with the physical, cultural and artistic environment they deserve in a better quality.
With this understanding, we aim for Turkey to move from the "high human development" category to the "very high human development" category.
2.1. Quality Education
Education forms the basis of our human development goal.
As AK Party, we consider education as an investment in our future with a long-term perspective, as a lifelong process that improves the quality of life of our people, equips the human resources of our country to compete with the modern world.
We consider education processes as an important opportunity to improve the quality of the knowledge and skills of our people, as well as to shape their manners and behaviors in a positive way, to increase their culture and to be a useful member of society.
We adopt an approach based on the interaction between knowledge and consciousness.
With this approach, we are committed to the development of a knowledge-based economy that trains the manpower needed by the knowledge-based economy,
Our main priority continues to be the creation of a liberal, productive and competitive education system, the training of teachers suitable for this system, the development of curricula and the establishment of appropriate environments.
a. What We Did
As AK Party, we consider education as the main tool for development and we have spared no sacrifice in this area.
On the one hand, we made significant investments in the infrastructure of education, and on the other hand, we realized radical reforms and regulations regarding our education system.
We restructured the central organization of the Ministry of National Education by envisaging a more flexible and dynamic structure to meet the requirements of today's world and the needs of our economic and social life.
During the AK Party governments, we have improved and developed the physical and technological infrastructure of education at a rate incomparable to the past.
We have taken great steps and achieved significant results in ensuring access to education for all individuals, achieving equal opportunities, modernizing curricula and the quality, quantity and regional distribution of human resources in education.
We increased compulsory education to 12 years with 3 stages and renewed the curriculum accordingly.
We have increased school enrollment rates and average length of schooling for all levels of education, especially for girls, through practices such as transportation, conditional education aids, free textbooks and special projects for schooling.
In the last 13 years, we have taken important steps to create a flexible, civil and democratic education system based on a libertarian education philosophy and to ensure that the field of education is free from all kinds of tutelage, prohibitive practices that violate the principle of equality.
We introduced free dress code for all students.
We liberalized the headscarf for academic staff, teachers and higher and secondary education students.
We abolished the coefficient injustice applied to vocational and imam hatip high schools.
We democratized the curriculum.
By increasing the number of elective courses, we gave our students the opportunity to choose according to their interests and abilities.
We made it possible to teach different languages and dialects as elective courses in primary and secondary education, and opened graduate programs in higher education.
We included the Life of the Prophet Muhammad, the Holy Quran and Basic Religious Knowledge as optional elective courses in the curriculum.
In addition to the steps we have taken towards freedoms in our education system, we have also made significant improvements in terms of physical infrastructure.
The average duration of education for adults increased from 5.5 years in the early 2000s to 7.6 years in 2013.
The expected schooling rate for the new generation has increased to 14.4 years.
Thus, we will double the current schooling rate in the new generation.
While the number of students in preschool education was 320 thousand in the 2002-2003 academic year, it more than tripled to 1.1 million in the 2014-2015 academic year.
In the same period, the enrollment rate increased from 12.5 percent to 46.8 percent.
While the number of students in primary education was around 10 million in the 2002-2003 academic year, it reached 10.7 million in the 2014-2015 academic year.
In the same period, the schooling rate increased from 96 percent to 103.9 percent.
While the number of students in secondary education was 3 million in the 2002-2003 academic year, this number increased to 5.6 million in the 2014-2015 academic year.
In the same period, the enrollment rate rose from 80 to 107.3 percent.
We increased the total budget of the Ministry of National Education by 8 times, from 7.4 billion TL in 2002 to 62 billion TL in 2015.
With the 558 thousand teachers we employed in the previous period, we increased the total number of teachers to 957 thousand; with the
234 thousand classrooms we built, we increased the total number of classrooms to 570 thousand.
Within the framework of our goal of preparing students for the information society, we launched the FATİH (Movement for Increasing Opportunities and Improving Technology) Project.
In the 2014-2015 academic year, we ensured that 850 thousand students were transported and 97 percent of the transported students were provided with lunch at the same time.
We started the transportation of students in need of special education in the 2004-2005 academic year and ensured the transportation of 6,900 students.
In the 2014-2015 academic year, the number of students transported free of charge exceeded 63 thousand.
Since 2003, we have distributed a total of 1.9 billion free books to primary and secondary school students.
Launched in 2005, the number of students benefiting from conditional cash assistance reached 2.4 million in 2014.
Between 2002 and 2014, we increased the number of students benefiting from scholarships provided by the Ministry of National Education from 95 thousand to 243 thousand.
We increased the amount of scholarships given to primary and secondary school students to 146 TL in 2014.
Thus, we have doubled the amount of scholarships approximately 12 times in the last 13 years.
In 2015, we will provide scholarships to approximately 320 thousand students.
We increased the number of schools opened by our Ministry of National Education for the children of our citizens and compatriots living abroad from 23 to 66 between 2002 and 2014.
We started to implement the Transition Examination from Basic Education to Secondary Education (TEOG) in order to strengthen the relationship between students, teachers and schools and to reduce exam anxiety by spreading the success evaluation process throughout the year.
Thus, we saved our students from the anxiety of a single exam and gave them the opportunity to take the exam in their own schools.
In order to increase the share of the private sector in financing education, we provided support ranging from 2,680 to 3,750 TL to students studying in private schools in 2015.
While the number of formal students in higher education was 1.2 million in the 2002-2003 academic year, this number increased to 2.6 million in the 2013-2014 academic year.
As a result, the gross formal schooling rate in higher education increased from 19 percent to 50 percent.
When students attending open education are included, the gross total enrollment rate increased from 29 percent to 97 percent over the same period.
In the same period, the number of academic staff at universities increased by nearly 100 percent, from 74 thousand to approximately 142 thousand.
We increased the number of universities from 76 in 2002 to 193.
During our term, we established 117 new universities, 62 foundation universities and 51 public universities.
We provided all 81 provinces with universities.
In line with the expansion in higher education, we have also realized significant increases in the public resources allocated to universities.
In 2002, the total allocation to universities was 2.5 billion TL; in 2015, it reached 18.3 billion TL.
In 2015, we allocated 33 percent of the 3.8 billion TL allocation to universities in the GAP, DAP, DOKAP and KOP regions, which are priority regions for development.
While in 2002 there was sufficient capacity for only 21 out of every 100 people who wanted to study at university, this capacity increased by 81 percent to 38 in 2014.
We have significantly increased Yurt-Kur's investments in new dormitories and increased the bed capacity by 130 percent compared to 2002, from 183,000 to 417,000.
We have also made significant increases in the amount of loans and scholarships we provide to university students.
We started to provide student loans to every student who requested one.
We increased the amount of loans and scholarships from 45 TL in 2002 to 330 TL in 2015.
We abolished university fees.
b. What We Will Do
In the second breakthrough period, education will once again be the top priority of the AK Party government, as it has always been.
During our governments, we have significantly solved the basic infrastructure and access problems in the field of education.
In the coming period, we are aiming for much greater breakthroughs, especially to improve the quality of education.
We see education and training as a whole and consider physical and spiritual development as valuable as intellectual development.
In line with this holistic approach, our main goal in education is to develop the ability and competence of thinking, understanding, realizing, problem solving, analysis and synthesis;
equipped with the basic knowledge and skills required by the information society;
have internalized the responsibility of rights and justice, national culture and values;
internalized the universal values of humanity and democracy;
open to communication and sharing;
To provide an environment and opportunity for individuals with developed aesthetic and artistic skills to grow up.
We will improve the institutional organization of the Ministry of National Education so that it is responsible for policy-making, coordination and supervision of the education system at the national level.
We will devolve authority from the center to the local level based on the principle of solving student-related problems at the school level.
In the coming period, "Quality in Education" will be one of our top priorities.
In this context, we will launch the 'Quality Mobilization in Education'.
For this purpose, we will first prepare an 'Education Quality Index'.
Through this index, we will create a map of Turkey's education quality at the level of class, school type, district, province and region.
We will reduce the achievement gaps between school types and regions, and we will bring equality of opportunity in education to life in all its dimensions.
In line with this process, we will also realize important transformations in the fields of teacher training and education management.
We will determine the General and Field Qualifications for Teachers and prepare and put into effect the National Teacher Strategy Document associated with these qualifications.
We will launch the "Teacher Academy" system that will enable our teachers to update their knowledge and skills.
We will restructure faculties of education according to the new structure in the national education system in a way that is associated with departments, divisions and general and field competencies for teaching.
We will renew the curriculum of education faculties.
We will provide the opportunity for students or graduates of education faculties to double major or minor in faculties other than education faculties.
We will determine the student quotas of faculties of education and other higher education institutions where teacher candidates are trained and formation programs by taking into account teacher need analysis and projections.
In the Public Personnel Selection Examination, we will conduct a field exam for teacher candidates in all fields.
We will make the necessary arrangements to recruit teachers in February.
We will ensure that the curriculum is reviewed at regular intervals, its impact on the quality of education is monitored and its contribution to achieving the ultimate goal of human quality that produces knowledge and transforms it into added value is measured.
We will continue our efforts to make the curriculum at all levels of education content that prepares students for life, teaches them to learn, reveals their talents, gives them basic skills, reinforces self-confidence and conveys universal values rather than overloading them with information.
We will ensure the expansion and further development of educational e-content by aligning the curriculum to IT-enabled teaching.
We will expand an interactive education and training system enriched with digital content in every field.
We will expand the use of enriched educational content using a combination of visual, audio, moving, interactive and dynamic elements for the curriculum and outcomes of the courses.
We will disseminate teaching materials consisting of video footage prepared for the learning outcomes, which will serve as an example of practice for teachers and support student learning.
We will enable game-based learning.
Develop mobile learning systems;
We will ensure that social media is used more effectively as a learning tool.
We will increase the quality of the education system by expanding the use of information systems that identify the situation on the basis of subjects and achievements.
We will prioritize teaching foreign languages to our students at a level that enables them to communicate both orally and in writing.
To this end, we will review the teaching system and curriculum, and make language learning more effective.
Together, we will promote educational technologies that encourage problem-solving and project-based learning.
We will ensure equal opportunity in education for all students through the FATIH project.
We will ensure that distance education methods are used as an effective tool for disadvantaged groups and those out of the education age to access quality education opportunities.
We will ensure that the necessary guidance and psychological counseling services are provided effectively to guide students in various fields, ensure effective learning, develop their skills and prepare them for the future.
We will continue to improve the environments and facilities needed by the education system, taking quality standards into account.
We will design educational spaces to encourage innovation, to be accessible, functional and in line with local architecture, with adequate play, sports and cultural spaces.
We will work towards school-based budget management in primary and secondary education.
We will evaluate schools according to academic, social, cultural, artistic and sporting performance and ensure that the results are shared with the public.
We will continue to take measures to improve the quality of vocational education to ensure the training of qualified personnel in the professions and fields needed by the business world.
Within the framework of our short- and medium-term goals to ensure that every citizen receives a fair and quality education with equal opportunities in primary, secondary and high schools, including pre-school education; we will continue to build enough classrooms to transition to full-day education in all our schools in line with the goal of ending dual education in schools.
In pre-school education, we will create incentives to support children from families without access to pre-school education.
We will increase equality of opportunity in education by expanding pre-school education and ensure that the mental and emotional development of each child is guaranteed within the framework of fundamental human rights and freedoms, taking into account the principles of social equality and justice.
Primary school education lays the foundation for the following years.
Our priority will be to ensure that this foundation is solid and that each of our students, regardless of the wealth level of their families, receives a quality education and fully acquires the basic skills, values and attitudes that are intended to be acquired at primary school level.
We will organize educational environments, teaching materials and educational practices with an understanding that takes into account individual differences and puts the student at the center.
We will take measures and implement compensatory programs to support the learning of students whose learning and development levels are behind their peers.
We will continue to update the curriculum to ensure that all students acquire basic competencies at the secondary school level, and we will improve the elective course practice in secondary schools.
We will improve the centralized common exams administered in the eighth grade of secondary school and use them to monitor and evaluate the performance of the education system.
We will organize the 9th and 10th grades of all types of high schools as common programs for the acquisition of basic competencies.
We will organize the 11th and 12th grades into modules consisting of courses that will prepare students for the transition to the higher education program they want to pursue or prepare them for a profession.
We will take measures to minimize quality differences between schools in secondary education.
Simultaneously with the reduction of disparities between schools, we will create the infrastructure for students in secondary education to study in one of the schools closest to their residence.
It will be ensured that every student who completes secondary education is educated at a level that enables him/her to obtain a license in a sports branch or to use a musical instrument at a certain level of proficiency.
The principle of "the best school is the school closest to home" will be realized and a significant burden will be lifted from families.
We will develop special programs and new practices to support the development of gifted students.
We will make the necessary arrangements for the financing of these programs, the provision of human resources and the creation of the necessary infrastructure.
In order to improve the quality of education of gifted students, we will encourage private enterprises to implement alternative school and teaching models in addition to public schools.
We will encourage the development of original teaching models in areas such as science, social sciences, business, technology, sports and arts.
We will prioritize policies that improve the quality of education provided to students attending vocational and technical high schools, close the gap in basic competencies between students in these schools and students in other high schools, and plan the employment processes of their graduates.
We will encourage the employment of vocational and technical high school graduates.
We will make it easier for graduates of Vocational Schools of Higher Education to find jobs in the public and private sectors by eliminating the differences in the program names and occupational definitions in their diplomas.
We will expand the practice we have started to establish vocational high schools in Organized Industrial Zones.
We will implement higher education reform.
In this framework, we will prepare a new "Framework Law on Higher Education" that focuses on university autonomy.
We will ensure that university administration is reorganized on the basis of autonomy and accountability.
We will categorize universities based on their faculty training and research infrastructure.
Categories will be differentiated in terms of their level of autonomy, and we will ensure that these levels serve as the basis for the specialization of universities and the transfer of public resources.
We will review the university entrance system and reformulate it with an approach that takes into account the actual performance of our students and minimizes exam stress.
We will ensure that exams in the transition to higher education are held more than once a year in order to reduce exam pressure on our students.
In addition to the existing universities, we will develop a mechanism for new universities and faculties to be established in the future based on objective rules such as the number of students and academic staff and the occupancy rates of established faculties.
We will support the specialization of universities, taking into account regional needs, capacities, and levels of development and competence.
We will allow the establishment of private universities and allow universities abroad to operate in Turkey and universities in Turkey to operate abroad.
We will create new support mechanisms for the establishment of independent advanced research centers within higher education institutions or in cooperation with higher education institutions.
In order to increase the international competitiveness of universities, we will enable them to accept more foreign students and employ more academic staff.
We will support our higher education institutions to cooperate with developed universities in different parts of the world.
We will encourage new regional exchange programs tailored for both faculty and students.
In addition to higher education students, we will also allow graduates to pursue minor and double majors.
The number of postgraduate scholarships provided by the Ministry of National Education and TUBITAK will be increased, and new theme-oriented postgraduate scholarship programs will be established within YÖK in order to meet the need for teaching staff in our universities, which are constantly increasing in number.
We will increase the number of academic staff allocated to public universities in line with the needs.
Dormitory construction will continue to meet the needs of higher education students,
will encourage the private sector to invest in this area,
We will improve the quality of existing dormitories.
We will develop new policies to accelerate the return of trained manpower from abroad, primarily from universities or research and development centers.
We will increase the number of postgraduate education scholarships provided by the Ministry of National Education and TÜBİTAK.
We will ensure that Social Sciences also benefit adequately from these scholarships.
We will make the necessary arrangements for the establishment of private universities in addition to the existing state and foundation universities.
We will diversify and increase the sources of financing for education.
In this context, we will ensure the use of new supply and operation models such as public-private partnerships to increase the share of the private sector in financing education.
We will strengthen the education-employment nexus.
Within the scope of our "Basic and Vocational Skills Development Priority Transformation Program", we will ensure the harmony between the demand for manpower in the labor market and the supply that our education system, including higher education, can provide in those fields.
We will plan flexibly to respond to rapid changes in the labor market and the economy.
We will develop programs with high employability rates within formal education institutions and non-formal education to meet skill needs in new fields.
We will identify priority areas and provide the necessary incentives and support for adequate capacity building in these areas.
We will ensure the training of entrepreneurial individuals by strengthening the entrepreneurship and innovation ecosystem.
We will identify the basic skills needed by the labor market.
We will strengthen the cooperation between schools and the business world by expanding applied trainings.
We will strengthen the role of the private sector, especially in vocational training, and give more responsibility to chambers and stock exchanges.
We will plan vocational trainings according to the needs of the labor market by activating labor market needs analysis.
We will expand three-semester practices in universities, including 1 semester of practical education and 2 semesters of academic education.
We will make arrangements for factories to open private vocational and technical education schools for their sectors.
We will improve workshop environments in vocational and technical schools and institutions on a sectoral basis.
We will improve the vocational and technical education school management model and ensure the participation of local administrations and sector representatives.
We will update the curriculum at all levels of education to include basic skills.
We will measure basic skills in transition exams from basic education to secondary education and university entrance exams.
We will create a guidance system in middle and high schools that can guide students according to their individual talents.
2.2. Healthy Generations
As AK Party, as a requirement of its human-centered approach, we prioritize the upbringing of physically and spiritually healthy generations.
We see the raising of healthy generations as a necessity for the formation of human capital for development.
Our main goal is to ensure the sustainability of the service standard in the field of health, to increase the quality of service with new reforms, and to bring service to the doorsteps of our citizens, especially the poor.
To this end, we aim to continuously improve the quality of our human resources and services in the field of health.
On the one hand, we will improve primary health care services, and on the other hand, we will give more importance to preventive health services.
In addition, we aim for our country, which has become a global brand in health, to become one of the leading countries in the world in the field of health tourism in the coming period.
a. What We Did
We have transformed the health sector from an ordeal for our people.
We have made a health revolution that takes care of the poor.
Since the implementation of the Health Transformation Program, which was launched to realize structural transformation in this field, we have made significant progress in basic health indicators, health service delivery infrastructure and human resources.
We implemented the "General Health Insurance" system, where all citizens benefit from health services at the same standard, the premiums of the poor are covered by the state, and all individuals under the age of 18 are under health insurance.
We expanded the rights of Green Card holders; Green Card holders' health services and medication costs within the scope of "outpatient treatment" started to be covered by the state.
We increased accessibility to health services and quality in service delivery.
We launched the family medicine practice and made it widespread across the country.
We increased the number of family physicians to 21,384 in 2014.
We allocated 4.8 billion TL in the 2015 budget for family medicine.
We increased the budget for preventive health services by nearly 9 times, and ensured that all citizens have free access to primary health care facilities.
We put an end to queues in front of hospitals and pharmacies and ensured patient access to doctors, medical technology and medicines.
We transferred the hospitals of other public institutions, especially SSK hospitals, to the Ministry of Health and gathered them under one roof.
We integrated private hospitals into the system.
We freed our citizens from being condemned to high fees in private practices and made them able to receive services in private health facilities.
With the Full Day Law, we have greatly reduced the obligation of our citizens to go to private practices.
We launched the Central Hospital Appointment System (MHRS) and made it widespread throughout the country.
We increased the number of health personnel working in public sector from 299 thousand to 612 thousand.
We have improved existing physical spaces.
We built 1,737 primary health care institutions and more than 760 new health facilities, including hospitals and annexes, and increased the qualified bed ratio from 11 percent to 48 percent.
In emergency health services, the world's most ideal service delivery has been achieved with land ambulances, ambulance helicopters and airplanes, and sea boat ambulances.
Launched in 2010, home health care services ensure that bedridden patients receive quality, effective, accessible and safe health care services at home.
At this point, we have expanded home care services all over the country.
The progress we have made in maternal and child health and vaccination services has also been reflected in infant and maternal mortality rates, and the decline in maternal and infant mortality rates in the last decade has been exemplary worldwide.
In 2015, we allocated 81 billion TL for total public health expenditures, including those of the Social Security Institution.
Thus, we doubled the resources we allocated for health expenditures compared to 2002.
In 2014, we increased prenatal care services from 70 percent in 2002 to 97 percent, the rate of hospital births from 69 percent to 98 percent and the vaccination rate from 77 percent to 97 percent.
As a result of these developments, the infant mortality rate (per thousand live births), which was 31.5 in 2002, was reduced to 7.8 in 2014, the under-five mortality rate (per thousand live births), which was 40, to 10.3, and the maternal mortality rate (per hundred thousand live births), which was 64, to 15.9.
Life expectancy at birth increased from 71.8 to 76.9 years.
We increased the number of physicians per 100 thousand people from 138 in 2002 to 174, and the number of nurses and midwives from 171 to 252.
As of 2013, the total number of physicians and nurses reached 133,775 and 139,544, respectively.
The number of visits to physicians per capita increased from 3.2 in 2002 to 8.2 in 2013.
We established the Pharmaceutical Tracking System (ITS), which monitors medicines at every stage of their journey.
Within the scope of ensuring access to safe products and combating the informal economy, we have started to work on the establishment of the Product Tracking System (ÜTS) in order to ensure the placing on the market, inspection, monitoring and surveillance of medical devices and cosmetic products produced or imported in our country.
As a result of these developments, we increased the satisfaction rate with health services from 39.5 percent in 2003 to over 70 percent.
b. What We Will Do
Our Party puts the goal of becoming a country that produces as much as it consumes in health at the center of all its visionary projects in the new period.
Medical technology,
in the pharmaceutical industry
and increasing our capacity in health tourism will be the main motivation for new projects.
Our goal is to make our country the leading country of our region in the field of health.
In the coming period, we will increase the rate of qualified beds in our hospitals to over 90 percent.
We will reduce the number of population per family doctor below 3 thousand.
We will continue our efforts to improve the conditions of our devoted health personnel.
Preventive Medicine yaygınlaştıracağızve We will promote a culture of healthy living.
We will scale up ICT-enabled integrated remote health and care applications.
We will improve self-care services at home by integrating home health services with the Ministry of Family and Social Policies and municipalities.
We will ensure that oral and dental health is followed up with regular checks.
We will increase domestic production of biotechnological products.
Thus, we will become a producing country in health.
We will produce domestic plasma products by plasma fractionation.
In this context, we will use domestic plasma and make our country one of the few countries that can produce and use this technology.
We will realize our ONCOGEN project, which envisages personalized cancer treatment.
With the project, personalized medicine and cancer-specific treatment will be possible, and our country will become one of the world's leading countries in the competition for biotechnological products in health, and will be one step closer to its goal of becoming a leading country in health.
We will produce our own vaccine with our national vaccine project.
We will expand city hospitals that we will build with the Public-Private Partnership (PPP) model.
We will establish a more advanced service infrastructure by putting into service hospitals with a total capacity of 56,000 beds across the country.
We will establish the Presidency of Health Institutes of Turkey (TÜSEB), the Cancer Institute and the Quality and Accreditation Institutes in order for Turkey to continue its recent successes in the field of health services in the field of R&D.
With the Quality and Accreditation Institute, we will provide world-class healthcare services, while we will steadily and permanently move towards our goals in health tourism.
With the Biotechnology Institute of Turkey, we will ensure the development of bioequivalent medicines in the field of health in our country.
Within the scope of our University of Health Sciences project; as a country aiming for role model practices in the health system, we attach importance to structuring our work under the roof of a university.
Effective fight against tobacco use, alcohol and drug addiction with our "Healthy Life and Mobility Priority Transformation Program";
healthy eating, active life,
food safety
and the promotion of mental health.
Within the scope of the program, we will increase the number and quality of controls in agricultural enterprises and food and feed enterprises.
We will strengthen the information and communication infrastructure of food control laboratories.
We will improve and develop veterinary border checkpoints.
We will take measures against misleading and misleading promotional activities of food products that are harmful to health, especially for children.
We will regulate labels and packaging to inform consumers more accurately.
We will carry out healthy nutrition programs for individuals in childhood and adolescence.
We will fight obesity.
We will increase the rate of early diagnosis of diabetes and improve care services for people with diabetes.
We will facilitate access to services for citizens who want to recover from tobacco and alcohol addiction.
We will strengthen treatment and rehabilitation services for drug addicts.
We will meticulously execute the action plan we have put in place.
We will expand palliative care services, which means services provided to patients and their relatives who face problems arising from life-threatening diseases, to prevent or eliminate all physical, psychosocial and spiritual problems, especially pain.
We will expand screening for early detection, especially for some types of cancer.
We will map important risk factors for cancer such as asbestos and radon.
We will establish an active cancer registration system covering all provinces.
We will increase the number and capacity of Community Mental Health Centers (CMHCs) across the country.
We will increase the number of psychiatric beds across the country.
We will implement multi-purpose, cost-effective sports facility projects in suitable locations close to living areas.
We will raise awareness of local governments on areas such as walking and jogging paths.
We will determine the principles of use of public sports facilities and make them available to citizens.
We will develop a sports-friendly school program and encourage the establishment of school sports clubs.
We will make physical education and sports classes more active.
We will launch the "Healthy Life with 1 Million Bicycles" program.
2.3. Family, Children and Dynamic Population
As AK Party, we aim to strengthen the family institution,
to increase the number of our children and ensure that they grow up in a qualified manner
as the main axis of our people-centered development policies.
We see our strong family structure as an important difference and advantage over other societies.
We owe our social solidarity and our survival against all odds to our strong family structure.
We consider our families as carriers of the values that make us who we are and as important bridges that connect the individual to society and society to the individual.
In modern societies, the moral support, human and social capital infrastructure provided by the family is eroding.
As AK Party, we have seen these threats since the day we were founded and we have considered the protection and strengthening of the family as a priority issue for the survival of our nation.
As AK Party, we know that the basis of a strong society, which is our ideal for the future, is a strong and happy family.
We see the family as the first and most important educational institution that ensures the healthy transfer of principles and values between generations.
In our view, our children, the guarantee of our future, will grow up in a quality family environment, grow up mentally and physically healthy, and become generations that bring dynamism to society.
a. What We Did
From the first day we came to power, we said that family is the building block of society.
We have emphasized that this is where we differ significantly from other developed societies and we have developed policies to ensure that we have a strong family structure.
In 2011, we established the Ministry of Family and Social Policies.
We made the necessary arrangements to increase the effectiveness of special counseling services for families.
Within this framework, we continue to provide the necessary guidance and consultancy services for the opening and functioning of family counseling centers opened outside the Ministry.
The "Law on the Protection of the Family and Prevention of Violence against Women" was put into practice during our period in power.
The Council of Europe Convention on Preventing and Combating Violence against Women and Domestic Violence, the Istanbul Convention, was adopted and entered into force.
We have prepared the Family Education Program (FEP) so that family members can comprehensively acquire the knowledge, skills and attitudes towards basic family life skills required by the age.
We have prepared the Pre-Marriage Education Program in order for couples to get to know each other in the pre-marriage process, to create realistic expectations about marriage, to know how to communicate effectively and how to deal with possible problems, and we are implementing it across the country.
We developed new programs with a holistic perspective, focusing on the family in our social support.
In this context, we launched the Family Social Support Program (ASDEP).
With this program, we aimed to ensure that services are accessible to all groups in need, that individuals in need of social services first become self-sufficient in the environment they live in, and that families in need of social services and assistance are provided with on-site, effective and widespread services.
We conducted pilot studies in Kırıkkale and Karabük provinces.
We extended leave rights for adoption, death of a working mother and premature births.
We regulated paternity leave for workers whose spouse gives birth.
We have developed support models to encourage marriage among young people.
In order to expand day care centers, we granted these institutions tax exemptions for 5 years, allowing them to benefit from the tax incentives granted to pre-school education institutions.
We give special priority to our children in our family-oriented policies.
Based on the rights and needs of our children, we aimed to increase their opportunities and possibilities to develop their potential and facilitate their access to basic public services.
During our 13 years in power, we have accomplished important works for our children.
We expanded early childhood education and increased schooling rates.
We have implemented conditional education and health aids, free books, school milk and transported education.
We provided regular cash support to mothers for an average of 3 million children annually.
As of October 2015, the number of people who stayed in orphanages and were employed in public institutions and organizations within the scope of Law No. 2828 exceeded 40 thousand.
In 2015, we appointed 1,876 people.
We expanded health insurance coverage to increase equal opportunities for children.
We set up special courts for our children.
By establishing child support centers, we secured children who are victims of crime, dragged into crime and at risk on the streets.
We run social support programs for children in need of special attention.
Our first priority has been the care of our children with their families instead of their care in homes and dormitories.
We support children who live with their families but need support without disrupting the integrity of the family.
While 12 thousand people received social and economic support in 2002, this number reached approximately 63 thousand people as of May 2015.
In 2015, the average monthly amount of social and economic support provided was 582 TL.
The number of children returned from institutional care to family care, which was 268 in 2002, reached 10,762 by the end of May 2015.
While in 2002, the number of children in foster care was 520, this number exceeded 4,000 as of May 2015.
We pay an average monthly payment of 908 TL per child to foster families, including allowance.
While approximately 7 thousand children were adopted until 2002, as of May 2015, approximately 14 thousand children were adopted.
Within the scope of service transformation, we placed 90 percent of our children in dormitories and kindergartens in home-type care units (love homes, children's homes).
In 2002, we provided services to 250 children in 3 love homes; as of May 2015, we provide services to a total of 4,610 children in 77 love home sites.
We started the children's homes program in 2005.
While the number of children served in the 4 children's homes opened in 2005 was 21; in 2015, the number of children's homes reached 1,015 and the number of children served reached 5,251.
We established Child Support Centers for children between the ages of 11-18 who are victims of crime, dragged into crime, and at risk on the streets.
These centers serve to meet the basic needs of these children and ensure that they return to their families and close environments.
We implemented the ANKA Psychosocial Support Program for the treatment of risks and traumas experienced by children.
Population and its characteristics play an important role in the AK Party's people-oriented policies.
We recognize and embrace that development and prosperity can only be possible with a young, dynamic and high quality population structure.
We believe that we should grow rich without growing old.
We have taken measures to delay population ageing and slow down the fertility rate as late as possible.
Since 2006, the total fertility rate has stagnated at the replacement level of 2.1 children per woman.
According to long-term population projections by TurkStat, if no measures are taken, the fertility rate is projected to decline to 1.65 children by 2050.
In this context, we changed our population policy and shifted from the fertility-reducing policies implemented until the 2000s to fertility-increasing policies.
In this framework, we introduced the possibility for working women to borrow for births up to the third child, facilitated access to in vitro fertilization and provided 5th region incentives for nurseries and day care centers to be established by the private sector.
b. What We Will Do
In the coming period, we will continue to expand family education programs aimed at protecting and strengthening the integrity of the family and increasing its social welfare.
We will increase the participation of family members in economic and social life through services provided in social service units.
We will complete the infrastructure of the Family Social Support Program (ASDEP), which will reach all disadvantaged citizens in need of social assistance or social services, establish an IT infrastructure and gradually implement ASDEP by employing sufficient number of qualified personnel.
We will create a family-based social risk map that includes areas such as education, health, employment and income.
We will create family, baby and child-friendly cultural environments and spaces.
We will implement housing, education, social security and income distribution policies, and policies for the protection and strengthening of family unity in a complementary manner.
We will prioritize activities aimed at developing, protecting and sustaining social values in general and family values in particular;
We will encourage cultural, artistic, educational and TV programs that emphasize family values.
We will ensure the development of services to prevent domestic violence, neglect and abuse, and to reduce bad habits and addictions.
We will establish psychological and social support programs for children living, working, employed and at risk on the streets, as well as for children under protection who have completed treatment for drug addiction and their families.
We will oblige municipalities to open daycare centers.
We will create an environment where all segments of society participate and assume responsibility in child services, where social sensitivity and awareness are created, and where there is no neglect, violence and abuse against children.
We aim for a Turkey where children's rights are adopted as a national strategy and implemented by all public institutions and organizations.
In the coming period, we will minimize the scope of institutional care by placing children under protection and care with their families, if appropriate, if this is not possible, with a relative family, and if this is not possible, with a foster family.
With the structural transformation in child services, we will ensure the transition from institutional care to family care, from ward system to home environment.
Within the scope of service transformation, existing dormitories and day-care centers will be closed down and child care services will be provided only through home-based institutions.
We will implement institutional structures for the treatment and psycho-social rehabilitation of drug addicted children.
We will introduce a specialized rehabilitation system for our children and ensure that children who are victims of crime or dragged into crime are reintegrated into society in the fastest way possible.
We will ensure that our children are raised as conscious, well-educated, respectful and self-confident individuals with humanitarian and moral values.
We will ensure that each and every child has equal opportunity to receive education.
In order to support Turkey's economic and social development, we have prepared our "Priority Transformation Program for the Protection of the Family and Dynamic Population Structure" with the aim of protecting the dynamic population structure, strengthening the family institution and thus increasing social welfare and social capital.
Within the scope of the program, we will make the necessary amendments to the Civil Servants Law and Labor Law to strengthen the maternity leave and rights of employees.
Within the scope of the "Birth Gift" program, we will implement the legal and institutional arrangements that will allow all mothers to be paid 300 TL for the first child, 400 TL for the second child and 600 TL for three or more children.
We will make arrangements to harmonize the maternity leave and rights of civil servants with those of employees subject to the Labor Law.
We will implement regulations to encourage daycare centers in order to expand quality, affordable and easily accessible daycare facilities.
We will develop support models (Dowry Account) to encourage marriage among young people.
We will build on existing child- and mother-friendly health practices.
We will create and popularize child-friendly cities model in local governments.
We will prepare support programs for the creation of a child-friendly social and cultural environment.
We will raise awareness to strengthen the harmony between family and work life.
We will align school hours with working hours.
We will improve the population registration system.
We will ensure that our National Implementation Program on Ageing is implemented more effectively to enable our elderly to participate more actively in economic and social life.
We will create a reliable data system on migration.
We will complete the gaps in legal and institutional arrangements in the field of migration and international protection.
We will plan adaptation policies and practices to address the health, housing and education problems of beneficiaries of international protection and prepare special programs for voluntary returns.
2.4. Social Protection and Fight against Poverty
As AK Party, we come from an understanding that sees human beings as the most honorable of all creatures.
Every single person is valuable to us and we are responsible for every single person.
With this awareness, we put people at the center of all our policies.
We determine our economic and social policies within the framework of our human development approach that prioritizes social justice.
We see eradicating poverty, providing social support to everyone in need and reducing the need for social support as among our main tasks.
Sustaining our achievements in the fight against poverty and further improving income distribution are among our main goals.
Under our governments, Turkey has become one of the rare countries that has been able to grow its economy while simultaneously improving social balances.
While income distribution deteriorated in many countries amid the global crisis, Turkey continued to generate employment and strengthen social policies.
As a result of our policies, according to World Bank data, the share of the middle class in Turkey doubled between 2002 and 2011.
Turkey was the only OECD country to improve income distribution in this period.
In the Human Development Index ranking announced by UNDP, Turkey ranked 80th among 158 countries in 2000 and 69th among 187 countries in 2014.
With this ranking, Turkey is in the "high human development" category.
In the coming period, we aim to be in the "very high human development" group.
a. What We Did
As the Justice and Development Party, we have reached out to all citizens in need of social protection since the first day we came to power and we will continue to do so.
When we came to power, the first thing we did was to eliminate the disorganization in the field of social services and assistance and unify the organizations and policies in this field under the roof of a single ministry.
We reduced poverty.
There are no people in Turkey whose per capita expenditure is below $1 and $2.15 per day.
The population with per capita expenditures below USD 4.3 per day decreased from 30.3 percent in 2002 to 2.1 percent in 2013.
During our government, we did not crush our public employees and pensioners against inflation, on the contrary, we increased their incomes in real terms.
From the end of 2002 to the end of January 2015, while inflation increased by 185 percent, the lowest civil servant salary, including family allowance, increased by 435 percent to 2,097 TL and increased by 88 percent in real terms.
The average civil servant salary, including family allowance, increased by 329 percent to 2,481 TL, an increase of 51 percent in real terms.
In the first half of 2015, the net minimum wage increased by 415 percent to 949 TL.
In the second half of 2015, it exceeded TL 1,000.
The lowest SSK pension increased by 317 percent to TL 1,072, an increase of 46 percent in real terms.
We increased the ratio of social assistance expenditures to GDP by about 2.5 times.
While 825 million TL was allocated for social assistance expenditures in 2002, this amount reached 33 billion TL in 2015.
In this context, 4.5 billion TL for home care for the disabled, which we implemented in 2015 to improve the quality of life of our disabled citizens,
3.9 billion TL for the pensions we provide to the elderly over 65 whose income is less than one-third of the minimum wage, disabled citizens in need of care, and relatives of disabled citizens,
52 million TL for the foster family model we have implemented,
We allocated 457 million TL for economic assistance and other social service practices to enable children to live together with their families.
We diversified social assistance programs; we started to implement regular social assistance programs for the disabled and elderly, women whose spouses have passed away, and military families in need.
We launched the Aid Program for Needy Soldiers' Families; we ensure that the families of our soldiers who are performing their patriotic duty, who do not have social security and are in need, are supported with a regular monthly aid of 250 TL.
In 2012, we launched the Regular Cash Assistance Program for Deceased Women.
As of 2014, we provided approximately 301 thousand women with regular cash support of 250 TL per month, totaling 814 million TL.
Between June 2003 and June 2015, we provided TL 4 billion in conditional education aids to 2 million students on condition that they attend school.
Within the scope of Conditional Health Assistance, we transferred 1.4 billion TL to the families of 1 million children on condition that they have regular health checks.
We are about to complete the "Integrated Social Assistance Services Project" to establish an institutionalized social assistance system by eliminating the lack of a well-functioning common database in the field of social assistance.
We completed the "Scoring Formula Project" to increase the effectiveness of social assistance programs and established objective criteria for identifying individuals and groups who will benefit from social services and assistance.
We distributed 2 million Social Assistance Cards.
In 2014, we covered TL 6.13 billion of General Health Insurance premiums for 9.4 million citizens.
We ensured that poor people with social security also benefit from social assistance.
In order to establish the link between social assistance and employment, İŞKUR registrations of employable persons receiving social assistance were started to be made through the Integrated Social Assistance System.
In the field of social services, while home care is a priority, we have ensured the transition from the ward-type care model to the home-type care model in institutional care.
We increased the pensions paid to the disabled by 200 percent to 300 percent, depending on their disability, and ensured that disabled people under the age of 18 can also benefit.
We launched the home care pension for disabled people in need and we also started to make monthly payments of two net minimum wages for disabled people who benefit from private care centers.
In order to remove barriers to the participation of persons with disabilities in social life, we made arrangements to make public areas, buildings and public transportation services accessible.
We signed the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities in 2007.
In 2009, it was approved by the Turkish Grand National Assembly and entered into force.
We introduced the practice of holding a separate and centralized exam for disabled people who will be appointed as civil servants for the first time.
As of 2002, the number of disabled people working as civil servants in the disabled quota was 5,777, while this figure reached 37,031 as of May 2015.
In 2007, the number of disabled people benefiting from home care services was 30,368, while as of September 2015, we provide home care services to 466,427 disabled people.
We provided two employment rights for the relatives of the deceased members of the Turkish Armed Forces and security officers within the scope of duty and war disability, and one employment right for those who are disabled.
We have provided an employment right to the relatives of those who lost their lives and to those who are disabled among other public officials within the scope of duty disability.
We have introduced a right to employment for civilian victims of terrorism who lost their lives or became disabled due to terrorist acts.
We provided employment opportunities for many people.
b. What We Will Do
In the period ahead, we will continue our rapid fight against poverty and our social protection policies.
We will increase coordination and cooperation among social service and assistance organizations merged under the Ministry of Family and Social Policies.
In this context, we will establish the Family Information System.
We will maintain our approach that favors the poorest in social transfers and tax regulations.
We will enact a Social Assistance Law to increase efficiency in the field of social assistance with a rights-based approach.
We will strengthen the mechanisms we have developed for the participation of social assistance beneficiaries in employment to establish the social assistance-employment nexus.
We will also increase İŞKUR's institutional capacity in this area.
We will improve standards in institutional care services and activate our inspection system.
We will implement a model that will take family size as the basis for social assistance and protect the integrity of the family.
We will establish a social support system where social support and services are provided in an integrated rights-based manner.
We will increase the diversity and effectiveness of the services provided at Social Service Centers.
We will strengthen enforcement on accessibility and organize campaigns to raise public awareness.
We will ensure that home care services are redesigned to include social services.
We will establish "Disabled Living Centers" where young people and children with disabilities can be safely left for short-term day and residential care.
We will create an environment in youth centers that will allow young people and children with disabilities to engage in social activities during the day.
We will continue to take stronger steps to increase the participation of the elderly in economic and social life and to improve their quality of life.
We will provide more support to nursing homes.
2.5. Women
The rights and welfare of women and the elimination of the obstacles they face in social life are indispensable for our goal of a strong society and our development.
Our women are the pillars of our families as well as social life.
As AK Party, we want women to become more empowered individually and socially,
to have better quality education opportunities,
Increasing their effectiveness in decision-making mechanisms,
Increasing their employment by facilitating their entry into the labor market,
ensuring their social security
and increasing the number of women entrepreneurs are our main goals.
a. What We Did
As in the rest of the world, many regulations that turn the disadvantaged position of women from the past into an advantage in our country were realized for the first time during the AK Party governments.
Our women have shown how productive they are in society, business life and civil society activities with these arrangements we have made.
The high increase in the labor force participation rate of women in recent years is one of the most important indicators of this.
As AK Party, we have given our women the value they deserve and strengthened their role in the development process of our country.
We realized many reforms for women during this period.
First of all, we constitutionally guaranteed positive discrimination for women.
We have strengthened the principle of equal opportunities for women and men through amendments to Article 10 of the Constitution.
Our women are now more strongly represented in parliament.
The number of women in parliament increased from 24 in 2002 to 98 in the 2015 elections.
We pioneered the establishment of the Commission for Equal Opportunities for Women and Men within the Turkish Grand National Assembly.
We have been running this Commission effectively.
We made it possible for women who were discriminated against because of their religious beliefs, whose freedom of education was restricted and discriminated against because of their headscarf, to exercise their right to education and work.
We observed the principle of zero tolerance in the fight against violence against women.
We made legal arrangements to prevent domestic violence, honor killings and honor killings.
Again for this purpose, we became the first country to sign the "Council of Europe Convention (Istanbul Convention)" without reservations.
In line with our basic understanding that no woman should be left defenseless and unclaimed, we provide protection and shelter services to women and their children who apply to state institutions.
We updated the "National Action Plan on Combating Domestic Violence against Women" with the participation of relevant parties.
Established in 14 pilot provinces, the number of Violence Prevention and Monitoring Centers (ŞÖNİM) has increased to 36 as of today.
We also achieved a significant increase in the number of women's guesthouses to 133.
During our AK Party governments, there have been significant improvements in basic indicators regarding women.
We have realized significant increases in schooling rates in primary, secondary and higher education in the last decade.
In this context, we have increased the enrollment rates of especially female students and ensured convergence with the enrollment rates of male students.
While the net enrollment rate in primary education was 90.2 percent in 2003-2004, it was 93.4 percent and 86.9 percent for boys and girls, respectively. In 2014-2015, the net enrollment rate was 96 percent and 96.6 percent for boys and girls, respectively.
Net enrollment rates in secondary education have also increased significantly in recent years, reaching 94.4 percent in total and 94.4 percent and 94.3 percent for boys and girls, respectively.
The net enrollment rate in higher education, which was 14.7 percent in the 2002-2003 academic year, increased to 39.5 percent in the 2014-2015 academic year.
For women, this rate increased from 13.5 percent in the 2002-2003 education period to 41.1 percent in the 2014-2015 education period.
We launched Conditional Education Assistance to increase the schooling rates of our children.
We have continuously increased these aids, and we have also increased the amount of aid given to girls.
We make payments only to mothers.
Through campaigns such as "Haydi Kızlar Okula", "Baba Beni Okula Send Me to School", "Kardelenler" and projects such as "Support to Basic Education Project" and "Increasing Schooling of Girls Project", which we carry out in cooperation with the private sector and non-governmental organizations, we aim to reduce the dropout rates of female students.
We organize education programs for women and girls who leave school early.
We strengthened the position of women in society by making important arrangements in employment opportunities, social security rights, entrepreneurship support and maternity leave.
As AK Party, we supported the employment of our women.
In order to encourage the employment of women, we covered the employer's share of insurance premiums at certain rates.
While the labor force participation rate of women was 27.9 percent in 2002, we increased this rate to 33.6 percent in 2014 thanks to the policies we have pursued in the field of women's employment and the projects we have implemented in recent years.
As a result of the policies we pursued in the 2010-2014 period, we provided new job opportunities for approximately 1.5 million women.
b. What We Will Do
We will continue to resolutely implement the policies we have implemented and the work we have initiated to further empower women individually and socially.
In the coming period, we will further increase the effectiveness of women in decision-making mechanisms.
We will strengthen the participation and role of women in politics, bureaucracy, cultural and artistic life and civil society activities.
In order to further strengthen the position of women and increase the effectiveness of our practices, we will review the legislation on women in consultation with relevant stakeholders.
We will take the necessary measures and implement additional incentive mechanisms to ensure that girls continue their education, in particular by improving early childhood education.
We will expand basic education, non-formal education and extension services provided by mobile education and training teams for seasonal agricultural workers and nomads and semi-nomads.
We will ensure that effective utilization of these services is mandatory, especially for girls and women.
We will increase the prevalence and effectiveness of family education services to prevent early marriages.
We will make the home visit system widespread and functional to ensure that our women receive services in the environment where they live for easier access to health services.
We will create working models that will facilitate women's entry into the labor market to increase women's employment.
We will make it easier for seasonal agricultural workers and home-based women to benefit from social security.
We will ensure the continuation of the employment incentives we have introduced for women's employment.
To further encourage women entrepreneurship, we will establish institutional mechanisms to provide consultancy services on market trends, legislation, exports and similar issues.
We will prepare and implement a Women Entrepreneurship Program and make it easier for women to enter business life.
With the regulation we made to facilitate women entrepreneurs' access to finance and thus increase women's employment, we provide 85% guarantee through the Credit Guarantee Fund for loans to be used by women entrepreneurs up to 100 thousand TL with a maturity of 5 years.
We will increase awareness-raising programs to strengthen employees' and employers' awareness of equal opportunities for women and men.
We will implement policies to reconcile work and family life for our women.
We will expand quality and affordable daycare facilities to facilitate the retention of our women in business life.
We will introduce children's playrooms for women participating in vocational courses.
We will ensure that the time spent on unpaid leave due to maternity leave is evaluated in civil service seniority.
We will grant all working women, both civil servants and workers, the right to work part-time, full-paid work for 2 months for the first child, 4 months for the second child, and 6 months for the third and more children, and the right to part-time work until the child starts school.
We will ensure that all forms of legal protection against violence in general and violence against women and children in particular are provided and effectively enforced.
We will also make more functional and accessible the centers where women and children can apply for information and support when they are subjected to violence.
We will ensure the establishment of a database for the production of regular statistical information on violence against women and children, based on the registration data of public services such as justice, law enforcement and emergency services.
2.6. Youth
The AK Party, which favors change and transformation and produces future-oriented policies, is the party of the youth.
We trust our youth; we see our youth as the energy of today and the guarantee of tomorrow.
In this direction, we aim to raise a healthy and strong youth who think, question, express themselves, are open to innovation and development, respect differences, have moral values, participate in decision-making processes, are sensitive to the issues of our country and the environment.
Our Party attaches utmost importance to ensuring that young people take a more active role in politics, economy and social life, and become responsible, knowledgeable and self-confident.
a. What We Did
During our governments, we have taken many important steps to ensure that our youth are raised well in the family, in the environment they live in, in schools and social spaces, that they become conscious individuals, and that they are strengthened mentally and physically through culture and sports.
We established the Ministry of Youth and Sports to provide and expand services for young people with a holistic approach.
We launched the National Youth and Sports Policy Document.
During our AK Party governments, we took over the university tuition fees as the public, relieving our students from a great burden.
Ensuring equality of opportunity in education was among our priorities as AK Party.
We put an end to the injustice of the coefficient applied in university entrance.
We enabled approximately 800 thousand students who were dismissed from universities to continue their education with a general amnesty arrangement.
We lowered the voting age to 25.
We reduced the duration of compulsory military service from 18 to 12 months, reserve officer military service from 15 to 12 months, and short-term military service from 8 to 6 months.
We have improved the housing, nutrition, scholarship and loan opportunities of our young people in higher education to much better levels compared to 2002 when we came to power.
Since 2003, we have provided scholarships or loans to every university student who applied.
We increased the budget of YURTKUR from 494 million TL in 2002 to 7 billion TL in 2015, nearly 14 times.
When we came to power, while 450 thousand young people were given loans, we tripled this figure and started to give scholarships or loans to 1 million 265 thousand students, of which 340 thousand were scholarships and 925 thousand were loans.
In 2002, we increased the monthly scholarship of 45 TL for undergraduate students to 330 TL.
We increased the monthly scholarship of 90 TL for master's students to 660 TL, and the monthly scholarship of 135 TL for doctoral students to 990 TL.
Since 2002, the increase in scholarships/tuition loans for higher education students has been 567 percent.
In 2002, students received a monthly nutrition allowance of 11 TL, whereas in 2015, with a 22-fold increase, we are providing a monthly nutrition allowance of 240 TL.
By building 361 new dormitories, we increased the number of dormitories for higher education students from 190 to 551 and the bed capacity from 182,000 to 417,000, an increase of 130 percent.
In 2002, dormitory services were provided to students in 75 provinces and 57 districts; today, dormitory services are provided in 81 provinces, 161 districts and abroad.
We introduced the possibility for local governments to build higher education dormitories for university students.
We encouraged and accelerated the construction of dormitories through public-private partnerships.
We raised the standards of our dormitories.
We switched from ward-type rooms to modern rooms.
We renewed the technological infrastructure of our dormitories.
We launched free Internet access in all dormitories and kindergartens.
Leadership and Personal Development Seminars, Awareness Conferences, Career Talks, Religion and Values Education, Language and Design, Music and Visual Arts Courses are organized to provide our youth with the knowledge and skills to prepare them for the future.
We increased the number of students benefiting from study abroad and exchange programs.
We enabled young people between the ages of 15-18 to establish associations.
The number of associations registered with the General Directorate of Youth and Sports to engage in youth activities increased from 125 in 2002 to 758 in 2015.
We expanded youth centers and camps and mobility programs.
In 2002, we increased the number of youth centers from 74 to 207 in 81 provinces.
From 20 thousand, the number of members of culture and youth centers increased more than 45 times, reaching 1,201 thousand in 2015.
We built Youth Camps to enable our youth to spend their free time with various social, cultural and sportive activities.
To date, 53 thousand young people have benefited from the 27 youth camps we have put into service.
We supported projects that contribute to the personal and social development of youth.
We also facilitated the lives of young people with the Electronic Inquiry, My Home, My Free Internet and Electronic Exchange Transformation Projects.
We launched the Youth Leadership Project.
827 youth leaders were assigned in 193 Youth Centers.
Projects of NGOs and other institutions and organizations are supported.
To date, 478 thousand young people have benefited from these supports in 1,001 projects.
We carry out various social programs, especially the Social Support Program (SODES) for young people who need special attention.
We built 48 stadiums, 343 sports halls, 568 football fields, 24 athletics tracks, 205 multi-purpose sports facilities for our youth.
We organized an "Anti-Drug Council" on the fight against drugs, which poses an important threat to our youth.
We established the High Council for Combating Drugs, shared a comprehensive Action Plan with the public and started to implement it.
In this context, we are continuing to prepare the "Anti-Drug Strategy Document" and the "Anti-Drug Action Plan".
For the first time, we provided incentives for youth employment.
To encourage the employment of those over 18 and under 29, we covered the SSI premiums of young people at certain rates for 5 years.
For the first time, we provided tax exemption for the capital companies of young entrepreneurs.
We launched the "100 Thousand Lira Grant Support for 100 Young Entrepreneurs" program.
Young entrepreneurs have started to receive 100 thousand TL of venture capital, including a 30 thousand TL grant for company establishment costs and other expenses.
We cover the 15-day SSI premiums of trainees attending courses offered by İŞKUR.
We also pay a fee of 600 TL per trainee.
b. What We Will Do
In the coming period, young people will continue to benefit from education
employment,
decision-making processes
social policies
cultural activities
will continue to be the priority target group in all areas, including innovation.
It will further strengthen the grounds for democratic and scientific education for our youth at all levels of education and universities,
We will continue to improve freedoms.
The AK Party, the government that has established the most universities in the history of the Republic, will leave no young person without an education.
A qualified learning and research and development process will be realized by increasing the quality and scientific-technological facilities of higher education institutions.
Turkey will become a center of attraction for qualified young people such as young scientists, artists and athletes.
We will increase the number of students sent abroad for master's and doctoral programs.
We will further increase the capacity of our university dormitories, which we have brought to a significant level during our government, and continue to improve their standards.
Our ultimate goal is to provide accommodation to all students applying for higher education.
We will provide scholarships to needy and successful students and loans to all other students who apply.
We will diversify our children's, public and university libraries in terms of collection and enrich their content.
We will ensure that young people take a more active role in social life and decision-making mechanisms.
We will expand and diversify mobility programs to increase the participation of disadvantaged youth in particular.
We will lower the voting age to 18.
In order to prevent our youth from turning to violence and harmful habits, we will continue to implement programs that support their development in areas such as sports, culture and arts.
We will create the necessary conditions for our youth to benefit more widely from sports and artistic activities and we will make the number of youth and cultural centers sufficient in all provinces.
We will establish "Art Houses" that will enable young people to be nourished with culture and art and to perform art.
We will create modern art institutions that contribute to culture at an international level where we can reflect the energy of youth.
We will establish "Youth Studios" where young people can get acquainted with modern art branches.
We will continue to strengthen the necessary physical and social infrastructures to facilitate the lives of young people with disabilities and ensure their integration into society.
We will organize social spaces and services to enable the participation of young people with disabilities.
We will improve the physical conditions of youth camps and diversify activities in line with the preferences of young people.
We will prepare a "National Youth Employment Strategy Document" to prevent youth unemployment.
We will establish "Career Centers" to help young people plan their education and career in the transition from secondary to higher education.
We will provide job and career guidance to young people who have graduated from high school or university.
To make it easier for high school and university graduates to find jobs, we will implement free skills and personal development programs after graduation.
We will ensure the widespread participation of our students in study abroad, knowledge and skill enhancement programs.
We will organize programs on topics such as financing, technology, business and marketing to strengthen young entrepreneurship.
We will provide up to 50 thousand liras in cash support to young people who want to start their own business in return for a project.
We will provide interest-free loans up to 100 thousand liras to young people who want to start or develop their own business.
We will provide 85 percent guarantees through the Credit Guarantee Fund for 100 thousand lira loans to be used by our young people.
We will provide income tax exemption for three years to young people who start new businesses.
We will ensure that the salary of every young person who finds a job for the first time is covered by the state for one year.
In this period, we will also provide on-the-job training for our young people to gain skills and reduce the personnel costs of employers.
We will make arrangements to enable university students to participate in employment through part-time work without interrupting their loans and scholarships.
We will provide young people with basic and vocational skills by expanding lifelong learning programs.
We will pave the way for the participation of young people in employment by developing flexible working styles.
We will contribute to school-industry cooperation by taking measures to encourage vocational high school and university students to do internships.
We are launching the GENÇDES program.
We will provide project-based gratuitous support for our youth's artistic activities such as short films, first films, books, magazines, etc. and sports activities.
In cooperation with civil society; we will establish multi-purpose integrated youth centers where activities such as culture, art, sports, etc. can be carried out.
We will establish a Youth Academy.
We will ensure that the General Health Insurance (GHI) expenses of young high school or university graduates will be covered by the state for two years without a means test and without a premium.
Thus, we will provide free health services to our young people.
We will provide free internet access to our youth.
We will abolish passport fees for young people in education.
Turkish Airlines has initiated a 20 percent discount on domestic flights and 25 percent discount on international flights for students and this practice will continue.
We will launch a dowry account scheme to encourage young people to get married.
We will provide support at the rate of 20 percent of the money saved in the dowry account.
We will increase the number and quality of studies and research on youth.
2.7. Culture and Art
The Republic of Turkey is the last link of a deep-rooted and ancient civilization that goes back to the Ottoman Empire, Seljuks and before.
As AK Party, we are committed to preserving, reproducing and transferring our civilization, culture and art values to future generations in a quality manner,
see cultural differences as richness,
where everyone contributes to and has access to cultural and artistic activities,
We strive for a cultured society with a strong sense of aesthetics.
In our view, culture should accumulate, mature, diversify, multiply and become widespread by meeting richness.
During our governments, we have paid special attention to strengthening our social identity by preserving the values at the core of our founding philosophy.
We have shaped our cultural policies within this understanding.
We saw social cohesion as our main goal by establishing strong ties between our past experience and our vision for the future.
We have accepted the human-centered understanding of justice, moral values, the spirit of social solidarity, aesthetic sensitivities and the aim of contributing to humanity at the core of our culture as the basis of our political understanding.
a. What We Did
In the past, the first thing that came to mind when culture was mentioned was "the activities of the state", but with the AK Party governments, this judgment started to change; cultural production started to shift more towards society and the civilian sphere.
During the AK Party rule since 2002, the national income tripled, the ten thousand dollar threshold was crossed, and wealth was shared by wider social segments, which has led to a great popular-based vitality in the field of culture and arts.
Thanks to the cultural initiatives and activities we plan on an international scale, our cultural heritage continues to be promoted and supported not only as our heritage, but as the heritage of all humanity.
During our ruling period, we have made significant progress in almost every field of culture, from literature to cinema, from theater to museology, from the restoration of cultural artifacts to archaeological excavations.
The number of books with international standard number (ISBN) increased from 16 thousand in 2002 to 51 thousand in 2014.
We increased the number of books in our libraries from approximately 20 million to 31 million.
We are also rehabilitating public and children's libraries.
We renovated 24 libraries and put them into service.
We are also working in 50 libraries.
We opened a total of 6 Literature Museum Libraries with a new approach.
In order to support the internationalization of Turkish Literature, we have been carrying out the 'Internationalization of Turkish Literature' (TEDA) Project since 2005.
Within the scope of this program, we have supported 438 publishing houses from 64 countries with a total of 13 million TL and ensured the publication of 1251 works.
We supported original works of literature that would contribute to the development of Turkish literature.
We established the Yunus Emre Institute and effectively started teaching Turkish language abroad.
During our period in power, there have been very important developments in the field of cinema.
In 2002, the number of domestic movie audiences increased 18-fold to 35.5 million, up from 1.9 million in 13 years.
While the number of moviegoers was 23.5 million in 2002, it reached 61.4 million in 2014.
The rate of domestic movie viewership, which was around 8 percent in 2002, reached 58 percent this year.
The role of the state's support to the sector by setting certain standards cannot be denied in the success of Turkish cinema in the box office and international arena in recent years.
While the support given to private theaters was 850 thousand TL when we came to power, we increased this amount to 4.3 million TL in the 2013-2014 season.
The number of private theaters we support increased from 59 to 221.
We took inventory of our foundation cultural assets and digitized them.
We continue our efforts to digitize other immovable cultural assets.
While 46 foundation cultural assets were restored and repaired before 2002, we increased this number to 4 thousand in the 2003-2014 period.
We also protected our ancestral heritage of civilization abroad.
We utilized 313 immovable properties with the "lease for construction" model.
We leased 263 assets in return for their restoration or proportion.
Selimiye Mosque and Complex, Çatalhöyük Neolithic City, Bursa and Cumalıkızık and Bergama Multilayered Cultural Landscape were included in the World Heritage List during our government.
The number of properties on the tentative list of world heritage increased to 52.
Our art of marbling was registered as Turkey's 12th item on the 'Representative List of the Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity'.
We ensured the return of 85 artifacts from foreign countries to our country.
We more than doubled the number of archaeological excavations during our government.
While the support provided for excavations was 1.9 million TL in 2002, we increased this figure to 38.8 million TL in 2014.
In 2002, the number of visitors to museums and archaeological sites was 7.4 million, while in 2013 it reached 29.5 million.
We have renovated many of our museums according to modern museum standards.
We increased the number of private museums from 93 in 2002 to 206 in 2014.
As of 2014, the number of museums and archaeological sites under the Ministry of Culture and Tourism was 326.
We renovated Gaziantep Zeugma Mosaic Museum, Hatay Archeology Museum, Şanlıurfa Edessa Archeopark and Mosaic Museums and brought them into our cultural life.
In 2002, there were 42 cultural centers built by the Ministry in Turkey, while this number reached 98 by the end of 2014.
Another step we have taken in the name of contemporary museum practices is the museum card application.
This is a first in Europe in terms of scope and cost.
We carried out activities to commemorate the 100th anniversary of the Gallipoli Wars with symposiums, panels, conferences, exhibitions, concerts, theater plays and cultural events and to reveal the place of this historical event in our world of history and culture.
b. What We Will Do
In the coming period, we will revisit the administrative organization of the field of culture and arts.
We will increase the share of the general budget allocated to culture and arts.
Recognizing that culture is essentially nourished and reproduced through civil society initiatives, we will increase the mechanisms through which civil society can actively participate in culture and arts activities.
Turkey has a rich and multi-layered cultural heritage.
We will ensure that the opportunities offered by Turkey's civilizational accumulation are introduced to the international community and actively contribute to universal culture, thought and art production.
In this context, we will increase the quantity and quality of our cultural activities.
As we aim for 2023 and beyond, we will ensure the upbringing of people of culture and art who are familiar with the world, who are aware of Turkey's issues, and who are at peace with their own society and history.
In this context, we will benefit from our own cultural accumulation as well as universal accumulation in the fields of performing arts, music, cinema, painting, animation, advertising, design and aesthetics.
We will develop the legal infrastructure that will pave the way for the free production of cultural and artistic works.
We will continue our efforts to institutionalize intellectual property rights.
We will attach importance to the promotion of our cultural and artistic people at home and abroad, and we will take all kinds of measures to encourage these people.
We will pay attention to the protection of cultural assets that have symbolic value and sacredness in our society.
We will continue to develop, maintain and expand our foundation tradition, which is the institutional carrier of our civilization values.
We will ensure that our language is developed in harmony with our civilization.
We will continue our efforts to make Turkish one of the official languages of the United Nations.
Translation of basic works of thought and science of different cultures into Turkish
We will ensure the teaching of Turkish to foreigners through distance education.
We will ensure that Ottoman language, one of the most important elements of our civilization, is taught effectively and the connection with our history and culture is strengthened.
We will actively continue Yunus Emre Enstitüsü's cultural and artistic activities as well as the education and training of the Turkish language in its centers abroad and increase its support for scientific research.
We will support the promotion of important personalities and events of our history and fairy tale heroes by turning them into documentaries, series and cartoons.
We will encourage the production of computer games and animations with content that our children can enjoy and that will help them grow up as responsible individuals.
We will continue to encourage domestic production in theater, cinema, opera, ballet and music at universal standards.
On the one hand, we will make institutional arrangements to revitalize these areas, while on the other, we will increase civilian contribution through support and incentives.
We will support theaters and cinemas established by municipalities, NGOs and private entrepreneurs in cities in need.
We will take measures to ensure that the Turkish film industry becomes one of the leading industries in the world.
We will establish an effective incentive mechanism for the processing of national, religious, moral and folkloric values, which are the basic elements of our culture.
We will support foreign films to be produced in Turkey.
We will ensure that the fabric of historic urban areas is revealed and protected in a holistic manner.
Architectural synthesis in accordance with our culture, especially in public buildings
and we will ensure that an urban architecture strategy and design and implementation principles are established.
We will support our cities' strategies and projects for the cultural economy.
We will encourage the creation of cultural activity areas in commercial activity areas such as shopping malls in cities.
We will provide space support to book centers, bookstore bazaars and bookshops.
We will create Digital Photo Archives to track the changes of our cities, cultural and artistic assets and segments of society over time.
Thus, we will contribute to the transfer of our civilization to future generations.
Our "City-Human" project, which will attract the attention of young people, be a role model, and contribute to reminding and explaining our values, will enable us to create a bridge between our values and young people and to place the keystones of civilization in their places.
We will ensure that ornamentation and handicrafts such as marbling, calligraphy, illumination, miniature, wood carving, tile, carpet making, coppersmithing and filigree, which are unique to us or the best examples of which are produced in our country, are transformed into commercial products in different presentations and compositions.
We will improve the mobility of local governments in the field of culture and arts and ensure the transfer of existing cultural centers to local governments.
We will transfer cultural facilities such as libraries, cultural centers and museums to local governments.
We will support the increase of theaters established by municipalities, NGOs and private entrepreneurs.
In order to strengthen social cohesion, identity and a sense of belonging, we will give importance to emphasizing our cultural and artistic values in educational institutions.
We will ensure the creation and implementation of curricula that develop a sense of art and aesthetics in primary, secondary and higher education.
We will encourage an increase in the reading rate in our country.
To this end, we will increase the number and quality of public and school libraries.
We aim to make the National Library one of the world's leading libraries in terms of books, periodicals, digital visual materials and archives.
We will continue to open new libraries with user-oriented, qualified library services within the framework of contemporary librarianship understanding.
We will digitize library and archive materials.
We will eliminate the lack of internet access and computer infrastructure in all our Public Libraries and increase their book and document holdings.
We will increase the number and quality of cultural centers in the places where they are needed.
For the cultural centers to be built, we will develop new models that are more reflective of local needs, multifunctional and responsive to the requirements of the age.
We will ensure that cultural centers are places where amateur and professional artists receive continuous training and education as drama, theater, painting and music workshops.
The cultural centers will organize literacy and literary courses in all fields of literature to improve literacy and literary taste;
We will introduce our children and young people to the classics of Turkish and world literature.
We will ensure that traditional culture and world classics are taught at all levels of education and further support the cultural accumulation of our children and youth.
We will ensure that architectural drawings and projects of all our cultural assets such as mosques, libraries, madrasas, palaces, historical public buildings are created and that these designs and projects are archived so that they can be rebuilt in case of damage.
By establishing a Research and Application Center for Restoration Techniques, we will improve our infrastructure at international standards in this field and increase the quality of our domestic and international studies.
In addition to the restoration or preservation of their physical assets, we will show utmost sensitivity to ensure that the spaces are used in accordance with their architectural identity and original function.
We will encourage private museums and ensure that the savings of our citizens are utilized and put to use.
We will complete the establishment of city museums in all our provinces and ensure that the cultural and artistic assets of our provinces are protected and passed on to future generations.
We will ensure the establishment of national thematic museums such as natural history, modern arts, Islamic arts, architecture, historical folk heroes in selected cities.
We will encourage the business world to allocate more budget to culture and arts, especially private museums and cultural centers.
In this way, we aim to accelerate the development of local art directors, curators and editors.
In Topkapı Palace, which is the most visited museum in our country, we will ensure that the architecture, art history, education, state and lifestyle of our civilization are presented in a certain integrity.
We will ensure that students visit museums and libraries more often as part of the curriculum in schools by providing free museum passes.
We will ensure the inventory of our traditional and contemporary artists, the collection of their works within a program and the creation of museums where these works are exhibited.
We will ensure the establishment of national museum complexes in Ankara and Istanbul and the display of all valuable artifacts remaining in storage.
We will ensure that our National Archive is organized with all its documents and made available to researchers in electronic environment.
We will accelerate our efforts to transmit our cultural resources to future generations with the means of modern technology through facsimiles, simplification and digitization.
We will create and develop compilation archives of scripts and images of cultural works such as theater, film, etc.
We will attach importance to archaeology education and develop departments of Seljuk, Ottoman and Central Asian archaeology, including the ancient civilizations of Anatolia.
We will organize archaeology and art history departments as departments that feed and support each other.
2.8. Sport
We see sports as an important means of being a healthy society and socialization.
In addition to improving the quality of life of our generations away from bad habits through sports, we believe that we can create new job opportunities in an important service area.
In addition, sports have important effects such as increasing the self-confidence of our people and ensuring that our country is better represented in the international arena.
With this approach, AK Party aims to establish a culture of doing sports in our society as a requirement for a healthy and active life, to increase the quality and diversity of sports services, to expand sports to the masses, and to create more job and income opportunities in every branch of sports.
We prioritize transforming our nation's relationship with sports from a spectator to an active and participatory one.
a. What We Did
During our AK Party governments, we have given much more importance to sports than the previous governments, and we have achieved significant developments in the number of athletes and clubs, various sports infrastructures and sports organizations.
In 2015, we increased the number of licensed athletes from 278 thousand in 2002 to 5.9 million.
We increased the number of sports clubs from 6,035 in 2002 to 13,280 in 2015.
We started to implement the Turkey Olympic Preparatory Center (TOHM) Project in 19 provinces and 17 branches in order to prepare athletes for the Olympics, where our people expect higher achievements, in the light of scientific data.
We increased the resources allocated to sports investments from the 2002 level of 63 million TL to 967 million TL.
With these resources, we put a total of 813 sports facilities into service.
In this context, we increased the number of athletics tracks from 1 to 36, swimming pools from 46 to 134, stadiums from 277 to 602, sports halls from 372 to 1,087, football fields from 578 to 1,146, and multi-purpose sports facilities from 264 to 469 between 2002 and 2015.
In 28 provinces, we ensured the construction of Olympic and semi-Olympic swimming pools.
48 swimming pools are also under construction.
We provide 50 million TL aid every year to amateur sports branches, which we consider important for our people to engage in widespread sports activities.
We have provided 1.9 billion TL to 58 sports federations, including 28 summer Olympic, 4 winter Olympic, 3 Paralympic and 23 non-Olympic sports federations.
In 2004, we took sports federations out of the political debate and gave them independence.
In the last 13 years, we have hosted 659 international sports organizations that have made significant contributions to the promotion of our country.
Among these, Erzurum World Universiade Winter Games, Trabzon European Youth Olympic Games, World Senior Wrestling Championships, World Women's Tennis Championships, World Indoor Athletics Championships, FIS Snowboard Junior World Championships, Antalya ITU Triathlon European Cup, Mersin Mediterranean Olympics, World Women's Basketball Championships are some of the notable ones at the international level.
b. What We Will Do
It will continue to invest in human resources and infrastructure in the field of sports,
In the new period, we will ensure the effective use of our existing infrastructures with more qualified organizations with high added value on top of the accumulated experience we have built up to date.
We aim to achieve more successful results in international events with the sports infrastructure and sports culture we will develop.
In the new period, our first priority will be to increase the number of our athletes and our sporting qualifications.
We will diversify sports education at all levels of education and strengthen the physical and human infrastructure that will allow different sports branches to be practiced in schools with a modular approach.
We will continue our efforts to ensure that our people benefit from the sports infrastructure of educational institutions at the maximum level.
We will realize multi-purpose, cost-effective sports facility projects in suitable locations close to living areas.
We will work on identifying sports talents at an early age.
We will increase our support for student athletes.
In order to train successful athletes at the international level, we will develop athlete selection and guidance systems, create the appropriate physical infrastructure and provide adequately equipped coaches.
With the awareness that sports is also an important field of employment, we will define and certify traditional and new sports professions and create the necessary programs to increase qualified training opportunities in these fields.
We will ensure that athletes who can represent our country in national and international competitions are trained in more than 40 Athlete Camp Training Centers in our country.
We will increase the number of Turkish Olympic Preparation Centers (TOHM) in 19 provinces, where we train talented and successful athletes between the ages of 17-21 in 17 branches.
Through these centers, we will create scientifically based training programs under the supervision of academic coordinators and experienced coaches.
We aim to participate in the 2016 Rio Summer Olympic and Paralympic Games with more athletes and achieve more successful results.
We will develop city infrastructures that will enable people to get into the habit of playing sports.
We will design living spaces in a way that enables sports and mobility, and improve spaces for cultural and sports activities.
In 2015, we will complete the construction of 178 sports facilities worth 2.3 billion TL and put them into service.
We will continue to invest in new sports facilities where needed, especially in areas with relatively poor sports infrastructure.
Improve the physical conditions of existing facilities,
We will ensure the access and effective use of both professional athletes and the general public.
We will focus on promotional activities of our existing sports facilities, especially in provinces where we have invested significant amounts through international organizations, and we will ensure more effective use of these facilities at national and international level.
We will implement new business models led by the private sector to ensure that the facilities created by large investments do not remain idle and operate efficiently to generate employment and added value.
Taking into account the regional development perspective, we will take new steps to develop sports tourism and improve the facilities and human infrastructure in these regions in an income-generating manner.
We will increase the responsibilities of local governments in the field of sports and support the development of cooperation between different sectors such as public, private and universities in the field of sports.
We will focus more on awareness-raising and information activities, especially on sports ethics, to prevent violence and doping in sports.
We will complete our efforts to make a quantitative and qualitative inventory of sports facilities built by different sectors such as central administration, local administrations, universities and the private sector; we will take this inventory as a basis for our future planning.
2.9. Working Life
As the Justice and Development Party, we are committed to establishing labor peace, fairness in working life and working environments worthy of human dignity.
In our second breakthrough period, we aim to fully establish a quality and secure working life in line with universal standards and international commitments.
Our motto in working life is to give the right to the employee before the sweat dries.
With this motto, as in other areas, we put people at the center of working life.
The occupational health and safety of our workers is a value in itself and a prerequisite for an efficient and high value-added production structure.
a. What We Did
The first thing we have emphasized during our governments is employee participation.
In this framework, we have strengthened social dialog mechanisms.
We have made arrangements to ensure labor peace.
We also achieved significant wage improvements during this period.
The net minimum wage increased by 61.6 percent in real terms between 2002 and 2014.
In the same period, we increased the average net salary of civil servants by 48.3 percent in real terms.
Between 2010 and 2013, we provided services to approximately 326 thousand citizens by transferring approximately 96 million TL resources in 38 provinces within the scope of our Project for Improving the Working and Social Lives of Seasonal Mobile Agricultural Workers.
While the number of beneficiaries of courses and programs within the scope of active labor force programs was 1,497 people in 2002, we increased this number to 416,878 people in 2014.
Between 2002 and 2014, we ensured that 2 million 71 thousand people benefited from active labor force programs.
We used a total of 4.7 billion TL.
The resources accumulated in the unemployment insurance fund reached TL 81 billion by the end of 2014.
Since 2002, we have made unemployment insurance payments of approximately 8.5 billion TL to 3.7 million people.
We enacted the Labor Law and the Law on Work Permits for Foreigners, which meet the needs of our working life and are in line with EU and ILO norms.
We introduced incentives for the employment of disabled people and expanded the scope of these incentives in 2014.
We enacted the Law on Occupational Health and Safety and the Law on Trade Unions and Collective Bargaining.
We renewed the trade union legislation through the Law on Trade Unions and Collective Bargaining Agreements and other legal arrangements, in line with EU norms and ILO Conventions, and with the effective operation of social dialogue mechanisms.
We facilitated union organizing by abolishing the notary requirement for membership.
We switched to the e-government system in union transactions, making membership procedures faster and more reliable.
Since 2002, the rate of increase in the minimum wage has been above inflation.
In 2014, we abolished the 16-year age discrimination in the minimum wage.
We recognized May 1st as "Labor and Solidarity Day" and declared it a public holiday.
By merging the Regional Directorates of Labor and İŞKUR Provincial Directorates, we expanded our services to 81 provinces.
We established an Anti-Psychological Harassment Committee and provided trainings in public and private sector workplaces.
We started to implement the National Employment Strategy in 2014, which was prepared in line with the principles of equal opportunity in the field of employment, protecting people, not jobs, and not imposing additional burdens on employers.
We have made important arrangements to ensure occupational health and safety.
In 2014, we provided subcontractor workers working in public workplaces with the opportunity to benefit from the collective bargaining agreement to which they are party and to receive severance pay directly from the relevant public institution.
We have guaranteed that all subcontracted workers will be paid their wages and use their annual paid leave.
In 2014, we implemented the Project on Activating Local Resources in the Prevention of Child Labour in five pilot provinces.
As a result of the change in the visa regime we put into effect, we ensured the registration of approximately 40 thousand foreigners known to work in the care of the sick, elderly and children.
b. What We Will Do
As AK Party, we will continue our reforms on working life in the coming period with a people-centered mentality.
We will increase the competitiveness of our enterprises while creating a healthy basis for the development of employment by reducing the rigidities in working life, which is also an important cause of informality.
In order to solve the problems in the severance pay system, we will conduct a current situation assessment and legislative work in dialog with social partners.
We will make a legislative amendment to impose administrative fines on employers in case of exceeding overtime working hours.
We will encourage the establishment of training units in private sector enterprises.
We will encourage the private sector, professional organizations and organizations of workers and employers to provide vocational training.
National Occupational Standards required for the business and education world will be prepared and put into force in line with the demands from the sector, and the standards in force will be updated at least every 5 years.
We will continue to give the utmost importance and priority to the effective implementation of the Occupational Health and Safety Legislation that we have established in line with the European Union and ILO standards, to ensure the transformation of the mentality of all relevant parties in this vital field and to develop the necessary capacities.
In this context, we will resolutely implement the Occupational Health and Safety Action Plan that we shared with the public.
We will create a working environment that will increase the employment of young people and women through tools such as part-time work, internships, premium support and new jobs developed in the conditions of the information society.
We will implement the "Project for the Development of Social Dialogue in Working Life" and the "Operation for the Social Integration of Disadvantaged Persons and Improvement of Their Employability Project" to contribute to the development of social dialogue at all levels.
We will make the necessary amendments to the relevant legislation on paternity leave, taking into account EU standards to ensure equal treatment and equal opportunities for women and men in working life.
We will establish a new automation system that is integrated with all relevant institutions and will completely eliminate the paperwork related to work permits for foreigners.
2.10. Social Security
As AK Party, we have made the social state effective and pursued social justice.
In this framework, we have adopted as a fundamental policy the development of a social security umbrella that covers the whole society, which is one of the most important indicators of development.
We aim to create a sustainable and efficient social security system while covering all our citizens under social security and general health insurance.
In developing our social security system, we are committed to ensuring fairness among employees, employers and pensioners.
and creating a sustainable balance is our fundamental principle.
a. What We Did
During our governments, we have realized important reforms in this field as we consider social security as a fundamental right.
Covering the entire population and all risks, which we promised as AK Party in November 2002
and sustainable social security system to a large extent.
We gathered three separate social security institutions (SSK, BAG-KUR and Pension Fund) under one roof.
We expanded social security coverage.
We have made it easily accessible to the entire population.
With the impact of the regulations, we increased the insured population ratio from 77.9 percent in 2006 to 81.5 percent in 2014.
By establishing a general health insurance system targeting quality health services, we covered almost all of our population under the General Health Insurance (GHI).
As a result of employment incentives and the fight against informality, the number of active insured persons increased from 12 million in 2002 to 19.9 million in 2014.
While the working age population has increased by 18 percent in the last 13 years, the number of active insured persons has increased by 66 percent as an indicator of the expansion of social security coverage.
As AK Party, we have provided pensioners with increases well above inflation.
We increased pensions in real terms by 23 percent for civil servants, 43 percent for workers, 100 percent for tradesmen with Bağ-Kur, and 238 percent for farmers with Bağ-Kur.
We facilitated access to health.
While the number of visits to a physician for one person in a year was 3.2 in 2002, we increased this rate to 8.3 in 2013 with the coverage of general health insurance for all citizens and the opportunity to apply to any hospital.
We expanded Social Security Centers (SSCs) across the country to increase access to social security services.
We put our unmanned SSIs and Mobile SSIs into service in 514 districts.
We intensified inspection activities to combat unregistered employment in order to prevent people from working without social security.
As a result of effective inspections and the regulations we implemented, we reduced the rate of unregistered employment from 47 percent to 36.3 percent in 2014.
We introduced reference prices and public rebate for medicines for human use.
We transferred SSK hospitals to the Ministry of Health, closed down SSK pharmacies so that SSK insured people could buy medicines from private pharmacies.
We established the Social Security Institution (SSI) by merging SSK, Bağ-Kur and Emekli Sandığı.
In addition to the transferred Pension Fund insured, we also enabled the transferred SSK and transferred Bağ-Kur insured to apply directly to university hospitals and private health facilities contracted with the SSI.
We made arrangements to ensure norm and standard unity in social security practices.
We gradually raised the retirement age and the number of days of premium payments required to qualify for retirement, and made changes to the parameters used in the calculation of pensions.
We ensured a state contribution to SSI revenues at the rate of one-fourth of collected premium revenues.
From TL 15.8 billion in 2002, premium and restructuring revenues including additional provisions reached approximately TL 137 billion in 2014.
We started to implement premium incentives and 5 points, R&D, disabled and young-women incentives in regional investments.
We expanded regional employment incentives, and in addition to the 5-point incentive, we provided an additional 6-point social security premium employer share discount in 51 provinces determined by taking socio-economic development indices into account.
In 2006, 2008, 2011 and 2014, we restructured SSI's premium receivables within the scope of premium restructuring practices.
We introduced a global budget to ensure sustainability and predictability in pharmaceutical expenditures.
We transferred the health expenditures of the transferred Pension Fund insured and their dependents to the SSI.
We transferred the health expenditures of green card holders to the SSI under general health insurance.
We started to carry out income determination procedures for those who are unable to pay premiums for compulsory universal health insurance and for other persons excluded from universal health insurance, and we ensured that almost the entire population is registered as universal health insured.
We ensured that the state started to pay the health premiums of those who were found to be unable to pay their premiums.
In 2002 and 2014, SSI total revenues were 5.6 percent and 10.2 percent of GDP, respectively, and SSI total expenditures were 8.0 percent and 11.4 percent of GDP, respectively.
Accordingly, we reduced the income-expenditure deficit in social security from 2.4 percent of GDP in 2002 to 1.2 percent in 2014.
Total budget transfers to the SSI increased from 2.9 percent of GDP in 2002 to 4.4 percent in 2014.
As a percentage of GDP, we increased SSI premium collections from 4.5 percent in 2002 to 7.8 percent in 2014, and insurance expenditures from 5.1 percent in 2002 to 7.8 percent in 2014.
We increased SSI health expenditures as a percentage of GDP from 2.0 percent in 2002 to 3.1 percent in 2014.
As AK Party rulers, we have realized important actions for our citizens in the field of social security in the past period.
In this framework, we have introduced the opportunity for women who work at home and do not engage in income-generating activities to be insured on demand.
We gave mothers with disabled children the right to additional days.
For 900 days, we introduced the possibility of a death pension.
We made it easier for Bağ-Kur and SSK members to access health services.
We introduced the possibility of insurance for those employed in domestic services for less than 10 days.
We fixed short-term premium rates.
We extended the actual service increase periods of our underground workers.
We lowered the retirement age for miners.
Under current conditions, a miner who retires at the age of 48.5 with attrition will be able to retire at the age of 43.5.
By making new special arrangements, we granted death pensions to the beneficiaries of our miners who lost their lives in the Soma disaster.
We introduced the opportunity for our citizens abroad to be insured on demand.
We granted borrowing rights to those who renounced their citizenship with permission (blue card holders).
We made it easier for taxi and minibus drivers to be covered by social security.
We also made it possible for Bağ-Kur members to receive work accident income.
We started to provide breastfeeding allowance for insured and pensioners covered by Bağ-Kur for each birth.
For 2014, we allocated 103 TL per person as breastfeeding allowance.
We introduced the right to early retirement for Bağ-Kur insured.
We introduced marriage assistance for orphaned girls.
We made it easier to retire on credit.
We provided premium support to employers who employ workers abroad.
We made it easier for Bağ-Kur members to access health services.
We made it easier for Bağ-Kur members to borrow for military service.
We have introduced the possibility for self-employed workers to make maternity borrowing.
We introduced health insurance for civil servants on leave without pay.
We provided an easy retirement opportunity for disabled civil servants.
Law No. 5510 Article 4 (c) subparagraph of those who are subject to Law No. 5510, we ensured that the periods they borrowed are counted towards their service.
We restored dignity to the victims of the military service.
We have expanded the scope of incidents covered by the Anti-Terror Law.
We reduced the 10-year service period required for a pension to be granted to the widows and orphans of deceased civil servants to 5 years.
We revised the rights provided to the families of martyrs, invalids, widows and orphans.
We have increased and expanded the scope of education and training assistance.
We expanded the health rights of our veterans of terrorism and war disability.
We have also introduced the possibility for civil servants to make birth borrowing.
We shortened the pension binding periods.
By reducing the monthly binding periods, which previously exceeded 3 months, to less than 30 days, we have prevented the victimization caused by the inability of our retired citizens to obtain the pension, which is the only source of income.
We started paying pensions to pensioners at home.
In this context, we made payments to 7,885 people in April 2014 and 8,085 people in November 2014.
We stopped collecting receipts and invoices.
We made it possible to receive income and pension with the T.R. Identity Number.
We granted pensions to insured earthquake victims who became disabled as a result of the earthquakes in Kütahya/Simav and Van.
We enacted the Adjustment Law, which enabled 65.3 percent of those covered to benefit from the adjustment.
We have introduced the right to a pension for the deceased insured's needy parents over the age of 65.
We paved the way for every citizen to go to the hospital of their choice.
We saved our citizens from medicine queues.
We introduced home health care services.
We increased the right to birth borrowing to 3.
We have introduced innovations in IVF treatment for the benefit of our citizens.
We abolished the time limit for receiving treatment abroad.
Treatments related to traffic accidents are now covered by the SSI.
We increased both the quality and quantity of health services provided for the elderly.
We provided health privileges to our veterans.
We have increased the services we provide to patients undergoing cancer treatment.
We provided services for dental treatments, physical therapy and rehabilitation treatments for our disabled patients.
We provided privileges for heart, lung and cornea transplants.
We ensured that those who did not take the income test took the income test and their debts were paid in installments.
We increased the pension of our 65-year-old citizens from 145 liras to 200 liras.
b. What We Will Do
As AK Party, we will continue the progress we have achieved in the field of social security in the coming period, and we will update our system by closely following the changing conditions and developing standards in the world.
We will continue to take measures to ensure the long-term financial sustainability of our social security system.
Within the scope of automation of insurance transactions, we have carried out activities to enable the registration-termination transactions of various professionals to be carried out electronically and we will continue our activities within the scope of transition to full automation.
We will activate pension services.
As in the past, we will continue to increase the income level of our pensioners with the measures we will take in the coming period.
In this context, after the routine increase we routinely made to pensions in July, we made a 100 lira increase for SSK and Bağ-Kur pensioners whose salaries were below 1,000 liras.
We also supplemented the salaries of pensioners whose salaries were between 1,000 liras and 1,100 liras to 1,100 liras.
We ensured that about 55 percent of our pensioners benefited from this increase.
We reduced the monthly Social Security Support Premium of 15 percent to 10 percent, which is deducted from our pensioners engaged in commercial activities. With
this arrangement, which more than 630 thousand pensioners benefited from, we provided an additional increase of at least 50 liras on average to the pensions of our pensioners.
In the coming period, we will give an additional 1,200 TL per year to all our workers and Bağkur pensioners.
As our opportunities increase, we will further increase our support to our pensioners and other social groups.
We will propose to the Minimum Wage Determination Commission to raise the minimum wage to 1300 TL for next year.
We will also differentiate the minimum wage according to the hazard class of the work.
In 51 provinces, we will abolish the requirement of employing 10 workers, which is the basis for the 6 percent Employer Insurance Premium discount.
We will ensure that 251 thousand small businesses benefit from this opportunity.
We will increase the additional indicators of our police officers from 2200 to 3000.
We will increase the efficiency and effectiveness of the system by reviewing the income test system and related general health insurance premium payments.
If they are employed, we will cover the employer support for insurance premiums of citizens receiving social support.
In our community benefit programs, we will give priority to those who do not have a working family member.
We will completely abolish the Social Security Support Premium deduction from the pensions of our tradesmen who are Bagkur Insured, which we reduced from 15 percent to 10 percent.
We will make pensioners homeowners with favorable conditions through TOKI.
In this context, we provide our pensioners with the opportunity to own a house in 240 installments at a monthly cost of 250 TL.
We will support formal female employment through home-based childcare services.
We will ensure that insured persons and their dependents who are entitled to health benefits under social security agreements are included in the health activation and provisioning system.
We will increase the number of registered employees and expand the premium base by combating unregistered employment and unregistered wages.
We will not apply premium restructuring except in exceptional cases such as economic crisis and natural disasters.
We will rationalize medicine and treatment expenditures, taking into account sustainability in health services and expenditures.
We will work towards resource efficiency in the health budget.
In particular, we will accelerate efforts to follow up patients and procedures, prevent abuses, and prevent unnecessary and duplicate examinations.
We will support active and healthy ageing, taking into account our increasing average age.
We will support long working lives by providing better access to lifelong learning programs and improve employment opportunities in old age.
We will support complementary pension savings, which we anticipate will strengthen the savings trend in our country as well as its sectoral contribution.
We will raise awareness on social security and premium payments.
We will increase current period premium accrual and collection.
We will contribute to the development and dissemination of preventive and protective health services.
We will raise public awareness and create awareness on the correct use of health services.
We will develop health insurance.
We will increase access to social security.
With the e-appointment project, we will make the appointment system more efficient and easier.
Our economic achievements increase the welfare of our people,
triggering demands for better quality spaces and environments,
strengthening our human capital,
and help us allocate more resources to science and innovation,
By increasing the prestige of our country, it significantly strengthens the steps we will take in foreign policy.
As AK Party, for sustainable economic development, we have taken advanced democratic standards and a fair judicial system that operates on the basis of universal legal norms as a basis.
Especially the judicial reform,
participatory democracy
and the progress we are making in governance,
It also plays a critical role in consolidating our economic transformation process, which has reached an important stage.
As in every field, we are entering a new era in the economy.
In this period, we will focus on microeconomic and sectoral transformations while strengthening our macroeconomic stability and achievements.
Our main goal is for our country, which we have raised to the upper-middle income group in the last 13 years, to be among the high-income group countries.
Our qualified, entrepreneurial and innovative people are the foundation of our economy, which will grow in confidence and stability,
Our enterprises that increase added value with knowledge and technology will form.
We will protect the right to property and freedom of enterprise.
We will ensure that legislation is predictable, clear and not retroactive.
We will ensure that vested rights are protected.
We will create the necessary environment for the judicial system to function quickly and consistently.
We will ensure efficient public sector operation and predictability.
We will create a business and investment environment where justice and security are established.
We will provide basic physical and social infrastructure for the services that the private sector will need.
We will grow in productive areas, led by an innovative and entrepreneurial private sector.
As an open economy, it will improve competitiveness in all areas,
global investments
and attract qualified manpower.
3.1. Growth and Macroeconomic Stability
Our long-term development goal is to raise the international position of our country through structural transformations based on the fundamental values and expectations of our nation in a reshaping world
and to increase the welfare of our people.
We see increasing the happiness and welfare of our people as the main goal in the economic policies we will implement.
The economy is an area that the AK Party government has always attached great importance to in line with confidence and stability and the welfare and strength of our nation.
Further improvement of the investment environment through an open and integrated economic structure is an indispensable principle of our economic development approach based on a free market economy.
In our first breakthrough period, with this principle and the policies we implemented, we made our country an attractive environment for both domestic and international investors, and we achieved significant increases in international capital inflows.
In the second breakthrough period, we will ensure economic growth without compromising this understanding.
a. What We Did
It is not possible to ensure macroeconomic stability in the absence of political stability.
The political stability we have achieved in the last 13 years and the environment of confidence based on this stability have provided a strong foundation for the realization of important structural reforms.
As a result of the environment of confidence and stability we have built, the main macroeconomic instability factors such as inflation and public deficits, which had been hindering our development, have largely ceased to be a problem in the recent period.
Thus, we have made it possible to focus on areas that will accelerate the development process.
We have achieved high growth rates
and a period in which we came to the forefront as a rising economy in the world.
On the one hand, we reduced the fragility of the economy through structural reforms and strong regulations,
On the other hand, we ensured the free functioning of markets in a competitive environment.
In order to maintain the environment of stable growth and confidence we have achieved, we have ensured equality of opportunity and justice in the economy, and we have not granted privileges or privileges to anyone.
We did not create a protected area of easy money-making for anyone by managing competition well, and we made a rule-based market economy approach dominant.
We built our economic policies on the principles of trust, stability, harmony, transparency, consistency and predictability.
We shared our policies and results with the public in a transparent manner,
we have taken care to ensure that all applications are consistent with each other.
By ensuring continuity in fundamental policies, we created a predictable environment for our people and economic decision makers.
We made an accountable understanding dominant in state administration.
We have acted with the awareness that the authority given to us by the people is a time-limited trust.
Thanks to our economic policies based on these principles, we have become an exemplary country in the world.
Our strong economic structure was instrumental in our rapid recovery from the global economic crisis.
The success of our country, which stands out in the world, is not based on macroeconomic aggregates alone, but is the result of the economic and political stability we have achieved, backed by the necessary socio-economic reforms.
In the environment of stability we have achieved, the risks arising from the public sector have disappeared,
macroeconomic uncertainties have diminished,
our enterprises' access to finance has become easier
and investments have increased significantly.
This has boosted production and employment on the one hand and the competitiveness of our private sector, which is the main driver of our growth, on the other.
Turkey has experienced a significant transformation process in many political, economic and social fields during our governments.
We have increased our Gross Domestic Product from USD 230 billion in 2002 to approximately USD 800.1 billion in 2014.
We tripled our national income per capita from USD 3,500 to USD 10,390.
In 2002, according to purchasing power parity, Turkey's per capita income was 36 percent of the EU average and in 2013 it reached 53 percent of the EU average.
As a result of our successful implementation of macroeconomic stability measures, we have brought inflation down to single digits and made significant progress in achieving price stability.
In this context, inflation declined from 29.7 percent in 2002 to 6.2 percent in 2012. In 2014, despite cyclical adversities, it was realized at 8.2 percent in single digits.
In the 2002-2014 period, we strengthened public finance and the banking sector.
In this context, we reduced Treasury borrowing rates from 63.8 percent to around 7 percent.
Thus, we reduced the economy's vulnerability to external shocks. In 2014, interest rates were realized at 9.8 percent.
We made a significant improvement in this area by reducing the budget deficit from 12 percent in 2002 to 1.3 percent in 2014.
In the same period, we reduced the total public debt stock from 74 percent to 33.5 percent.
The benefits of the reforms and political stability that we decisively implemented during the economic transformation process were more evident during the recent global economic crisis.
In addition to the macroeconomic policies that we have implemented correctly and in a timely manner, thanks to the fiscal space we have created, the Turkish economy has positively differentiated itself from many countries in the global crisis thanks to our sound financial system.
As a result, Turkey was one of the countries that recovered from the global economic crisis the fastest and was least affected by global economic uncertainties.
In the 2002-2014 period, our average growth rate was around 5 percent.
While the average income of the richest 10 percent was 18.3 times that of the poorest 10 percent in 2002, this ratio dropped to 11.6 times in 2014.
Thus, we have gradually achieved a fairer distribution of income.
Resources that were largely allocated to interest expenditures were shifted to social policies, investments and personnel expenditures in an environment of confidence and stability.
We increased the ratio of social expenditures, which includes education, health and social protection expenditures, to GDP from 13.7 percent in 2002 to 18.4 percent in 2014.
As a requirement of our social state approach, we increased the share of social expenditures in general government expenditures from 33 percent to 46 percent in the same period.
b. What We Will Do
As AK Party, we will continue to integrate our economic policies with strong social policies, knowing that in today's competitive world, investments in people, their qualities and a healthy social environment are also investments in our economic potential.
In the period ahead, increasing the share of the manufacturing industry in GDP, with a view to boosting domestic production and reducing import dependency, is important for structural transformation.
The AK Party is aware of the need to accelerate productivity growth and industrialization to create this structure.
With more emphasis on R&D, led by the private sector,
We are determined to realize this with an export-oriented and competitive production structure.
Our country, which has made a significant development move in the last 13 years, will accelerate the process of convergence with developed countries.
Maintaining strong macroeconomic and financial stability in the period ahead is indispensable for the success of our economic policies.
Our 2023 vision, which sets out the horizon for the 100th year of our Republic, and the plans and transformation programs we have prepared with a participatory approach will be our road map.
Our main strategy for high and stable growth is private sector-led,
open to the outside
and the development of our competitive production structure.
Productivity increase
and strengthening the industrialization process are the cornerstones of this strategy.
Increasing domestic savings and channeling them to more productive areas,
increasing the share of manufacturing industry in GDP by increasing private sector investments
and improving our labor productivity
we will maintain stable growth.
In this context, our growth strategy is based on 5 fundamental axes.
These axes will be important policy areas in the period ahead for the realization of our growth strategy.
Strengthening macroeconomic stability,
Developing human capital and activating the labor market,
Increasing technology and innovation development capacity,
Strengthening the physical infrastructure,
Improving institutional quality.
As part of strengthening and maintaining the stability we have recently achieved, we will work to improve the quality of public revenues and expenditures.
We will be careful not to increase the share of public expenditures in total GDP, thereby minimizing the exclusionary effect of the public sector on the private sector.
We will enable the implementation of new policies with the fiscal space to be created through revenue-raising efforts such as tax incentives.
We will maintain a monetary policy framework that will strengthen price stability.
We will implement policies and measures for the permanent solution of the current account deficit.
In parallel, we will continue our efforts to increase domestic savings.
Turkey has a young and dynamic population structure to support its rapid development process.
In the period ahead, we will increase labor force participation in order to maximize the opportunity offered by population dynamics,
We will ensure that the quality structure of education in particular is improved.
In line with the needs of the labor market, in addition to education policies aimed at developing human capital, we will ensure the attraction of qualified manpower to our country by providing a suitable working environment, provide important input to the areas of technology development capability and institutional quality, and thus contribute to growth.
In the period ahead, we will continue to work on
We will increase R&D and innovation activities with a focus on the private sector.
We will increase added value by accelerating the commercialization and branding processes of the outputs to be obtained.
We will plan our public infrastructure investments in a way that supports the healthy development of production in the economy, but without wasting resources.
High-quality infrastructure investments by the public sector will motivate private sector investments and increase production capacity;
on the one hand, and productivity-based growth dynamics on the other.
We will contribute to stable and high growth by improving corporate quality at company and country level.
We will focus on improving the governance processes of our companies, extending their lifespan and solving efficiency and scale problems.
In the same context, we will continue the fight against informality and corruption.
It will pursue predictability and stability in tax regulations;
protect intellectual property and patent rights,
ensure the efficient functioning of markets
and strengthen the investment climate.
We will enable decision-making processes in our country to function in a healthier way and increase production capacity more rapidly by making investment and production more attractive.
Increasing new inflows of international direct investment, especially in productive areas, to boost productivity through technology transfer
and by achieving direct job-creating results,
we aim to contribute to growth.
3.2. Balance of Payments
As AK Party, we have focused on increasing the quality of our production and exports in achieving structural transformation in the economy.
With this approach, we will continue our policies to address the structural problems underlying the high current account deficit that Turkey experienced during periods of rapid growth in the first breakthrough period in the second breakthrough period.
The essence of the new Turkey's economic policies will be to continue to reduce the current account deficit by focusing on its domestic and external causes, while realizing growth with a better balance of payments balance sheet.
With programs to support domestic production, we aim to improve the balance of foreign trade and transform our increasing resources into more income by directing them to productive areas.
a. What We Did
During our AK Party governments, the ratio of exports to GDP realized at an annual average of 17 percent between 2002 and 2014.
According to 2002-2014 realizations, the annual average export growth was 14.2 percent in nominal terms and 8.8 percent in real terms.
Despite the global crisis in this period, our exports maintained their upward trend.
Export prices fluctuated during this period and increased by an annual average of 4.6 percent.
With our strategy of diversifying our export markets, we increased the share of non-EU markets in our total exports from 43.3 percent to 56.5 percent in the 2002-2014 period.
The ratio of imports to GDP realized at an annual average of 26.5 percent in the 2002-2014 period.
In the same period, annual average import growth was 16.3 percent in nominal terms and 9.4 percent in real terms.
In line with economic growth and stability, we ensured that the share of short-term debt and the private sector in the external debt stock increased while that of the public sector decreased.
By the end of 2014, the Central Bank's net reserves, which we inherited as USD 28.1 billion in 2002, reached USD 127.3 billion.
In 2012, we introduced an investment incentive program with sectoral and regional dimensions to boost domestic production.
In 2013, in order to increase domestic savings rates and keep the current account deficit under control, we took decisions to limit consumer loans and support export and SME loans.
b. What We Will Do
As AK Party, we aim to reach 500 billion dollars in goods exports and 150 billion dollars in services exports in 2023 with new investments and transformations in our manufacturing industry.
Our main target for merchandise exports is a 1.5 percent share of world exports.
In addition to this positive performance in exports, we are also carefully monitoring the current account deficit and taking the necessary structural and cyclical measures.
We aim to reduce the ratio of foreign trade deficit to GDP with our "Priority Transformation Program for Reducing Dependence on Imports", which aims to ensure the transformation of production in favor of high value-added products and to reduce import dependency and thus the current account deficit by encouraging the production and use of domestic inputs.
We also aim to raise the ratio of exports to imports to 70 percent and to increase the share of medium and high technology products in exports to about 40 percent by improving the quality of exports.
Within the scope of the program, we will update the Input Supply Strategy (GSTS) by taking into account Turkey's inventory of input supply needs.
We will prepare a Turkish Industrial Strategy and Sectoral Strategies, prioritizing R&D, innovation and design activities for medium-high and high-tech products.
We will create new investment support programs for medium and high technology products.
We will start implementing investment support programs to focus companies on the production of medium-high and high-tech products.
We will effectively implement a new incentive system that includes large-scale investments and strategic sectors based on reducing import dependency.
In order to increase the localization rate, we will support clustering activities that will ensure cooperation between enterprises in the supply chain and increase added value.
We will make the necessary arrangements to increase Turkey's exports of goods and services to non-EU countries without reducing its share in traditional export markets.
Export supports will be based on effectiveness, and we will prioritize sectors with development potential.
Within the framework of Turkey's bilateral and multilateral obligations, we will increase the use of domestic intermediate goods and value added in domestic production.
We will strengthen the innovative production structure by expanding university-industry cooperation areas in design.
We will encourage original design activities in export products for consumption and ensure the training of qualified designers.
We will support the registration of patents and the creation of international trademarks, and improve promotion and marketing support in line with the needs of exporters.
A list of target products that are inputs in the energy sector and whose production will provide high added value will be drawn up and investments for their production will be supported.
We will support the domestic production of equipment used in energy production facilities.
We will increase the share of domestic production of machinery and equipment used in facilities producing alternative energy sources such as wind, solar and hydroelectricity.
We will enable MTA to carry out mining activities abroad.
We will reduce the iron and steel industry's dependence on scrap inputs.
We will encourage R&D activities in areas such as inorganic chemistry, biofuels and alternative composite materials.
We will produce prototype batteries for electric vehicles.
We will increase the attractiveness of free zones to attract investments in high-tech products.
We will create mechanisms to increase the competitiveness of domestic machinery manufacturers.
We will emphasize the economization of waste.
We will create mechanisms to improve the financial environment to increase the competitiveness of domestic machinery manufacturers.
We will review the Inward Processing Regime and take necessary measures to ensure the supply of domestic inputs for export-oriented production.
We will increase our seed development and production capacity.
We will improve existing opportunities for our exporters to access new markets, especially in light of the recent developments in our trading partners.
We will develop the necessary mechanisms to use e-Commerce as an effective tool to increase exports.
We will ensure that imported products, as well as domestic products, comply with technical regulations on health, environment and energy efficiency.
Within the scope of international trade in services negotiations, we will ensure that the rights of our investors abroad are secured and protected.
3.3. Inflation and Monetary Policy
As AK Party, our basic principle in the economy is to keep inflation permanently low and in single digits.
In line with this principle, we remain committed to achieving and maintaining price stability, which is the main objective of monetary policies.
In the second breakthrough period, monetary policy will also be supportive of the growth and employment policies that we will implement, provided that they do not conflict with the objective of achieving financial stability and price stability.
a. What We Did
AK Party governments have taken care to harmonize monetary policy with fiscal policy
and the fight against inflation as one of the pillars of economic stability.
Between 2002 and 2005, the CBRT implemented the implicit inflation regime, which is defined as the transition regime to explicit inflation targeting.
By 2005, the rate and volatility of inflation had been reduced.
In 2006, the Central Bank announced that the necessary preconditions were largely in place and that it would adopt an explicit inflation targeting regime.
In Turkey, the inflation target is set as a "point target" for a period of 3 years.
In 2004, we reduced year-end CPI inflation to single digits from 29.7 percent in 2002.
At the end of 2012, inflation was 6.2 percent, the lowest rate in 44 years.
In 2002, the gap between inflation expectations and target inflation, which was high in 2002, decreased significantly and converged to zero in the 2002-2006 period.
In the 2007-2014 period, the said difference fluctuated and hovered around 2.4 percent on average.
In 2002, the benchmark bond interest rate was around 70 percent, but interest rates have been on a significant decline and since 2010, the benchmark bond interest rate has been below 10 percent.
As of 2004, the real interest rate of the benchmark bond was around 15 percent, while the real interest rate fell below 5 percent and hovered around 2 percent on average in the aftermath of the global financial crisis, thanks to the maintenance of budget discipline in the public sector and the promotion of prudent borrowing in the private sector in the following period.
We increased our foreign exchange reserves (including gold) from USD 28.1 billion at the end of 2002 to USD 127.3 billion by the end of 2014.
In 2002, we increased our gold reserves from USD 1 billion to USD 20.1 billion by the end of 2014.
During this period, we dropped six zeros from the Turkish Lira and introduced a symbol to reinforce the prestige of the Turkish Lira.
b. What We Will Do
The main priority of monetary policies is to achieve and maintain price stability.
Monetary policy will also safeguard financial stability and support the government's growth and employment policies, provided that they do not conflict with the objective of achieving price stability.
Inflation targeting will remain the main monetary policy regime.
Inflation targets will be set by the government and the Central Bank for three-year periods.
The floating exchange rate regime will be maintained.
It will continue to be essential for the Central Bank to directly determine the monetary policy instruments it will use to achieve price stability.
The Financial Stability Committee and the Food Committee, with input from the Central Bank, will strengthen stability and efficiency in their respective areas.
3.4. Financial Markets and Financial Services
As the AK Party, we believe that economic breakthroughs will only be possible by maintaining stability in financial markets.
We see our fundamental reforms in financial markets and financial stability as the starting point for our economic success.
In order to sustain these achievements in a quality manner, we have established a financial market where all kinds of financial instruments can be issued to meet the needs of the real economy and finance growth,
transaction costs are low,
has a strong technological and human infrastructure,
effectively supervised,
We aim to create an innovative and more transparent financial market.
a. What We Did
During the first breakthrough period of the AK Party, we restructured state-owned banks to ensure that they operate according to the requirements of modern banking and international competition and prepare for privatization.
Affected by the 2001 crisis, we have made arrangements to strengthen the capital structures of private banks, resolve non-performing loans, reduce their foreign currency open positions and encourage their mergers and acquisitions in order to restore them to a healthier structure.
The banks taken under the SDIF were subjected to financial and operational restructuring and resolved through transfer, merger, sale and liquidation in order to prevent the growth of losses and accelerate the resolution process.
In light of the experiences in the period following the crisis, the BRSA's supervisory area was expanded, on-site supervision and remote surveillance functions were integrated, the supervision and surveillance framework was strengthened with new methods and approaches, and steps were taken to make it more pro-active.
As a result of our reforms, the ratio of banking sector assets to GDP increased from 60 percent in 2002 to 121.2 percent by the end of 2015.
The ratio of credit volume increased from 14 percent to 76.2 percent as of June 2015.
Regarding interest-free finance, we have made important arrangements with the opportunities provided by the new Capital Markets Law.
We introduced new financial instruments, which are prominent in international capital markets, into our system by regulating lease certificates (Sukuk).
In 2012, for the first time, we issued lease certificates amounting to TL 9.9 billion in the domestic market and USD 3.8 billion in the foreign market.
We developed an interest-free banking system.
The share of total assets of participation banks in total assets of the banking sector increased from 2.4 percent at end-2005 to 5.1 percent at end-July 2015.
We introduced a limited deposit guarantee system and a private pension savings and investment system.
We enacted the Banking Law in line with international standards in order to give competitiveness to financial markets, minimize risks and establish an efficient and transparent financial system.
With the Bank Cards and Credit Cards Law, we ensured the effective functioning of the card market.
We have introduced the possibility of a new payment plan for credit card debts for which a notice has been served, enforcement proceedings have been initiated, or which are classified as loans under follow-up by the bank.
With the regulation dated April 7, 2015, in order to improve SMEs' access to finance, we enabled the Treasury to transfer up to TL 2 billion to credit guarantee institutions and this amount can be increased up to 10 times by the Council of Ministers.
By the end of 2014, we had supported 5,862 companies with loans amounting to TL 3.2 billion.
In the 2003-2014 period, we provided 14 billion dollars of favorable external loans for SME financing.
In line with our goal of transforming Istanbul into an international financial center, we launched the Istanbul International Financial Center (IFC) Strategy and Action Plan.
As a result of these efforts, Istanbul first entered the Global Financial Centers Index in 2009 in 72nd place and rose to 42nd place in 2014.
We launched the Individual Participation Capital System in order to eliminate the problems of SMEs in accessing financing, to support businesses in achieving a more professional and corporate structure, and to increase investments and employment.
We liberalized the foreign exchange regime by removing restrictive barriers to foreign trade.
Thus, we reduced bureaucracy for importers and exporters and prevented our business community from unnecessary confrontation with judicial and administrative authorities.
We increased investors' access to financing from domestic markets by enabling them to utilize foreign currency loans above USD 5 million.
We established the Financial Stability Committee.
We adopted Basel-II standards to improve risk management and market discipline in banks, increase the effectiveness of capital adequacy measurements and thus create a sound and efficient banking system.
We put the Catastrophe Insurance Law into force.
We made a regulation on Individual Participation Investors (Angel Investors).
We legalized the Agricultural Insurance Pool.
We enacted the new Capital Markets Law.
We have taken macroprudential measures in credit to channel loans used to finance consumption into productive investments and to weaken the impact of economic shocks.
We introduced the Private Pension System.
As of August 2015, we reached 5.7 million participants and a fund size of TL 40.3 billion, including state contributions.
We established the Istanbul Arbitration Center.
We launched the Turkish Electronic Fund Distribution Platform (TEFAS), which is fully automated and integrated with the Takasbank-CRA system.
b. What We Will Do
As AK Party, we will implement innovative policies in the field of financial services with a dynamic perspective in the coming period.
In this context, it will attach importance to increasing the depth of financial markets,
We will support public companies.
We will provide tax relief for the use of equity.
On March 26, 2015, the Law introduced tax incentives for equity financing.
For companies that increase their capital in cash, we will ensure that a certain portion of the increased capital can be deducted from corporate income each year.
With the law, we increased the amount of TL 1 billion that can be transferred from Treasury resources to credit guarantee institutions to TL 2 billion.
We are paving the way for Treasury guarantees up to TL 20 billion through the Credit Guarantee Fund.
With our "Istanbul International Finance Center Priority Transformation Program", we aim to establish a transparent market structure that will meet the needs of the real sector, where all kinds of financial instruments can be issued, has a strong physical, human and technological infrastructure, and is effectively supervised in order to transform Istanbul into an internationally competitive financial center.
By the end of the program period, we aim for Istanbul to be among the top 25 global financial centers and Turkey to be among the top 30 countries in terms of financial development.
Moreover, we aim to increase the share of the financial services sector in GDP from 3.4 percent in 2013 to 6 percent by the end of the program period.
With the program, we will review the practices regarding the taxation of value increase gains on the disposal of real estate.
We will establish an administrative structure to carry out IFC promotion and communication activities, with greater contribution from the private sector.
We will harmonize tax treatment of financial instruments and their underlying assets.
We will eliminate tax practices that lead to unfair competition between different financial institutions.
We will establish specialized courts in finance.
We will improve transportation facilities and communication infrastructure, especially rail systems, in the IFC cluster areas.
We will establish a "Technology Development Center" to develop information technology products needed in financial markets.
We will increase the number of experts with internationally recognized certificates in finance in both the public and private sectors.
We will establish a mechanism to ensure coordination in the field of interest-free finance, and we will determine ethical principles and corporate governance principles suitable for this field.
We will increase the diversity of products and services.
We will institutionalize the Borsa Istanbul Common Data Center.
We will activate the Istanbul Arbitration Center.
We will establish a Private Equity Platform within Borsa Istanbul.
We will strengthen consumer and investor rights in the financial sector through transparent, fair and incentivizing practices within the framework of corporate governance principles.
We will develop development banking, which provides long-term financing for investments.
We will strengthen payment systems in line with technological developments and emerging needs.
Support R&D activities in financial markets;
We will expand mobile banking and internet banking.
We will expand financial education that contributes to increasing domestic savings.
3.5. Fiscal Discipline
As AK Party, we have based our budgets on building trust.
While disciplining our budget, we observed the general stability of the economy and ensured that the revenues we increased based on healthy resources were returned to our people as services by making the best use of them.
During our governments, we have demonstrated that fiscal discipline, strong growth performance and disinflation can be realized simultaneously.
In this way, we have broken the belief that inflation is necessary for growth that prevailed in our country in the past.
We ensured that our citizens on fixed and narrow incomes, who had suffered income losses in the inflationary environment for years, received more realistic income increases.
In the second breakthrough period, we aim to create an environment that will not compromise fiscal discipline, minimize uncertainties for our businesses, create a much healthier and predictable environment for our entrepreneurs, and increase production and tax revenues.
a. What We Did
Since 2002, our disciplined fiscal policy has led to a significant improvement in public finances.
We have removed from the agenda the issue of the sustainability of the debt stock, which was perceived as a serious risk in public finance in the past.
From 74 percent of GDP in 2002, the EU-defined general government debt stock declined to 33.5 percent at end-2014.
This rate is 89.6 percent in OECD countries and 85.4 percent in the Euro Area.
In order to broaden the investor base and diversify borrowing instruments, sukuk issuances were launched in domestic markets for the first time in 2012.
While many countries resorted to IMF resources and received support from central banks in the global crisis environment, we paid all of our debts to the IMF without putting pressure on the markets.
We also ensured the fulfillment of obligations to the CBRT and public banks.
The average interest rate on TL-denominated fixed-rate government domestic debt securities, which was 64 percent in 2002, realized as 9.7 percent in 2014.
As of July 2015, this rate declined to 9 percent.
We moved from interest budget to service budget.
In 2002, about 86 liras of every hundred liras of tax revenue collected was going to interest.
In 2014, only 14.1 liras out of 100 liras of tax revenue went to interest.
By reducing the interest burden in the budget, we have provided more resources to deliver services to citizens.
While the share of interest expenditures in budget expenditures was 43.2 percent in 2002, this ratio became 11.1 percent in 2014.
In 2002, the ratio of interest expenditures to national income was 14.8 percent; in 2014, we reduced this ratio to 2.9 percent, the lowest level of the last 23 years.
Since 2002, budget deficits and the public sector borrowing requirement have fallen rapidly as a result of our strict adherence to fiscal discipline.
During this period, the budget deficit, which was 11.5 percent of GDP, declined gradually to 1.3 percent at end-2014.
Similarly, the general government deficit decreased from 10.8 percent in 2002 to 0.7 percent in 2013.
This ratio was realized as 0.6 at the end of 2014.
In this framework, these deficit figures are well below the 3 percent deficit level set by the Maastricht criteria, which is a standard upper limit for EU countries.
We have used the fiscal space gained as a result of our reduction in interest expenditures to transform the social security system, in areas that directly affect our people such as education and health, in public infrastructure investments and in financing social expenditures.
In this framework, central government budget capital expenditures, which were 2.2 percent of GDP in 2002, realized as 2.8 percent in 2014.
Similarly, we increased total public sector social expenditures, including education, health and social protection expenditures, from 13.7 percent in 2002 to 18.4 percent in 2014.
We increased public spending on education from 12.3 billion TL in 2002 to 79.7 billion TL in 2014.
In 2015, we allocated 86.1 billion TL for public education spending.
We doubled public health expenditures from 13.6 billion TL in 2002 to 77.2 billion TL in 2014.
In 2015, we allocated 81 billion TL for public health expenditures.
The ratio of general government revenues to GDP increased significantly during our governments.
In 2013, we increased general government revenues excluding privatization from 30.8 percent of GDP in 2002 to 39.1 percent in 2013.
We expect this ratio to be 38.5 percent in 2014.
Similarly, the tax burden including social security premiums, which was 22.3 percent in 2002, realized as 28.5 percent in 2014.
Law No. 5345 established the Revenue Administration.
We introduced a "minimum subsistence allowance" system for real income taxation.
We have introduced income or corporate tax exemption for manufacturers' earnings from the sale of products manufactured in free zones.
We introduced a corporate tax reduction for corporations and joint ventures operating in the finance and insurance sectors on their earnings from investments subject to incentive certificates.
We increased the share of general budget taxes transferred to local governments.
We gathered tax audit units under a single roof.
In 2008, we reduced the income tax burden on a minimum wage earner with four children to zero with the minimum subsistence allowance we introduced.
Before this implementation, this burden was 12.8 percent.
We aim to reduce the income tax burden of minimum wage earners with three children to zero.
We reduced the VAT rates on basic necessities and services, which have a significant share in the expenditures of fixed and low-income citizens, to 8 percent for education, health and clothing, and to 1 percent for many food items.
We simplified the Value Added Tax (VAT) legislation.
We reduced the VAT rate to 1 percent for the acquisition of many machinery and equipment through financial leasing, thereby reducing the financial burden on investment.
As a result of these reductions, Turkey has the second lowest overall VAT rate among European Union countries.
b. What We Will Do
Within the framework of our "Priority Transformation Program for the Rationalization of Public Expenditures", which will enable us to maintain fiscal discipline and create more fiscal space, we will review existing expenditure programs and eliminate inefficient expenditures.
By allocating the fiscal space thus created to priority expenditure areas, we will ensure that the size of public primary expenditure is kept at a certain level.
With this program, we also aim to limit the size of public spending and the borrowing requirement, but mainly to improve the quality of spending.
Within the scope of the program, we will determine the people who will benefit from these aids according to more objective criteria in order to prevent abuse in social assistance and to reach everyone who deserves it.
We will complete the integration of databases of public institutions providing services in this field.
We will assess the economic, social and environmental impacts of agricultural subsidies.
We will ensure the sustainable use of natural resources and food safety while ensuring efficiency in subsidies.
We will prepare a framework law on PPP practices.
We will expand the procurement of public institutions' needs through joint procurement.
We will make the allocation of funds to higher education institutions more rational.
We will take measures to ensure efficiency and effectiveness in the acquisition and use of public vehicles.
To increase transparency and ensure competition, we will improve the process of publishing all procurement results.
We will make cost-benefit analysis mandatory in service procurement.
We will determine the methods, criteria, procedures and principles to be followed in the acquisition of public service buildings.
We will strengthen the strategic plan-budget link to ensure the effectiveness of the resource allocation process.
We will adopt a budget structure that takes a program approach to public services.
We will promote the rational use of medicines and improve preventive and preventive health services.
We will reform the public procurement system in line with EU public procurement directives.
In this framework, narrowing of exemption provisions,
inclusion of new procurement methods in the system,
enactment of a procurement law for specific sectors such as electricity, gas, water and telecommunications,
e-procurement, e-complaint, e-notification, product digitization, and establishment of certification systems will be ensured.
We will enact a New Income Tax Law by merging income and corporate tax laws.
With this regulation, we will introduce tax incentives to support exports based on high technology and investments within this scope.
Encouraging investment, production, employment and savings
Increasing voluntary compliance with taxation and accelerating the transition to the formal economy
Expanding the tax base
Reinforcing tax justice
Strengthening tax security Increasing
flexibility and efficiency in execution
Transition to a new taxation approach that encourages economies of scale in agriculture,
Abolishing the fourth period provisional tax declaration,
Enabling simple procedure taxpayers to keep their own records.
We will enact a new Tax Procedure Law to harmonize with economic and social policies and to make it simpler and easier to implement.
In this context;
Increasing taxpayer rights,
Ensuring fairness, equality and trust in tax audits,
Increasing transparency and accountability in tax administration practices,
Facilitating the resolution of disputes,
Improving the valuation provisions in favor of the taxpayer,
We will implement regulations that reduce tax compliance costs.
Within the framework of our "Priority Transformation Program for Improving the Quality of Public Revenues", which we have prepared to further improve the revenue side of our budget, we basically aim to obtain public revenues from healthy and continuous sources through modern methods.
With the program, we aim to improve the quality of the entire process, from formulating revenue legislation to collecting revenues and informing the public.
Our basic approach is not to tax taxpayers more, but to improve the quality of revenues by broadening the tax base.
Under the program, we will continue to simplify tax legislation.
We will implement regulations on tax legislation in a process that includes the contributions of the society and relevant parties.
We will increase local governments' own revenues.
Within the scope of the main objective of directing investments to productive areas and increasing savings, we will work to ensure that the public sector gets a share from real estate rents.
We will subject exemptions, exemptions and reductions to a comprehensive analysis.
In the field of taxation, we will make more use of the possibilities of technology while providing services to citizens.
We will produce more comprehensive and detailed statistics on public revenues.
We will increase the human and technical capacity of the Tax Administration.
3.6. Reducing Informality
As one of the basic principles of a just administration, the AK Party aims to ensure that everyone has the right to work and earn on equal terms.
It is committed to asking everyone to contribute through a fair tax system.
We see that reducing the size of the informal economy will contribute to a qualified improvement in many macroeconomic factors such as economic stability, income distribution and employment in the medium and long term, increase the level of productivity and competitiveness in the economy, and increase public revenues.
With this approach, we adopt as a fundamental principle the encouragement of practices that will ensure efficiency in the economy and increase registered work, employment and voluntary taxation.
a. What We Did
In our first breakthrough period, we made important reforms to reduce the informal economy.
In the area of income tax, over the last decade, we have gradually reduced the number of tariff brackets from seven to four, and the tax rate in the top tariff bracket from 55 percent to 35 percent.
We abolished the practice known as tax rebate for wage earners and introduced the minimum subsistence allowance.
We reduced the corporate tax rate from 30-33 percent to 20 percent in the same period.
In recent years, we have made significant reductions in value added tax rates in many sectors, particularly in education, health, textiles and tourism.
In order to increase employment and encourage registered employment, we have implemented regulations such as 5-point premium reduction, incentives for youth and female employment, and incentives for disabled employment.
As a result of the VEDOP project, which was implemented to strengthen the technological infrastructure of our revenue administration, we started automation in tax offices.
We have created a data warehouse (VERİA) within our revenue administration where information collected from the public and private sectors on taxation is stored.
Collections and payments exceeding 8 thousand TL are now made through banks and PTT.
We launched the Combating Unregistered Employment (KADİM) Project.
Within the scope of the project, we established the Coordinatorship for Combating Unregistered Employment.
We introduced markers in fuel products and cash registers at fuel pumps,
We established a banderolized tracking system for alcoholic beverages and cigarettes.
We launched the Large Taxpayers Tax Office, which was established to provide separate services and monitoring for taxpayers who pay a significant portion of tax revenues.
We put the "Alo 170 Informal Employment and Social Security Information Line" into service in order to prevent the loss of rights of employees and to enable them to get results from their notifications and complaints in a short time.
We have established a Service for Combating Unregistered Employment in all provincial directorates of the SSI in order to check insurability and collect statistical information from information received from banks and other public institutions and organizations.
For the first time, we implemented the Action Plan for Combating the Informal Economy Strategy (2008-2010).
We then prepared and implemented our second Action Plan for Combating the Informal Economy Strategy covering the years 2011-2013.
We started to receive the T.R. Identity numbers and professional information of the persons processed from five public institutions and organizations, the farmer registration system, internet providers, Türk Telekomünikasyon A.Ş. and GSM operators, and to carry out insurance checks.
We completed the testing of the Central Risk Analysis Model, which aims to identify risky taxpayers within the framework of objective risk factors and studies to measure the extent of tax losses and evasion.
In order to increase the effectiveness of tax audits, we unified tax audit units under a single roof.
We ensured specialization and division of labor in tax audit.
We increased the effectiveness of inspection services.
We increased the number of tax inspectors to 10 thousand.
We have created a system that maximizes taxpayer rights, prevents the spread of criminal acts and increases the effectiveness of e-inspection practices.
We implemented our Action Plan for Combating Smuggling of Tobacco and Tobacco Products covering the years 2011-2013.
b. What We Will Do
As AK Party, with our "Priority Transformation Program for Reducing the Informal Economy" that we will implement in the coming period, we will reduce the ratio of the informal economy to GDP.
and non-agricultural sectors by five percentage points each.
Within the scope of the program, we will measure the size of the informal economy, investigate the effects of informality and conduct an inventory study.
We will strengthen inspection capacity.
We will raise awareness in all segments of society through educational and inclusive methods.
We will develop methods to measure taxation capacity, analyze the extent of informal employment and address the problems it causes.
We will analyze the factors affecting voluntary tax compliance and implement practices to increase tax compliance levels of taxpayers.
We will prepare notebooks and interactive software on taxpayers' rights and obligations.
We will install payment terminals in certain locations to improve tax collection and service quality.
We will make regulations on petroleum and LPG license holders.
We will implement a centralized system that will be able to monitor fuel sales information instantly.
We will establish a tracking system for land and sea vehicles used in fuel and LPG transportation.
We will modernize and renovate customs gates and customs.
We will review the inward processing regime and make the system's control processes more effective.
We will make use of programs in the visual media to raise awareness on tax and social security.
We will increase the capacity for data sharing between institutions in the fight against informality.
We will also ensure that the income of social assistance recipients is not cut off as soon as they start formal employment and is continued for a certain period of time or until their income reaches a sufficient level.
In particular, we will ensure that part-time workers are prevented from working unregistered by solving their additional payment problems related to GSS.
3.7. Public Capital Companies and Privatization
As AK Party, we aim to withdraw from public administration as much as possible within the rules of the market economy.
In line with this goal, we carried out large-scale privatizations during the first breakthrough period.
In the second breakthrough period, on the one hand, privatization practices continued,
On the other hand, we will increase efficiency in areas where the public sector is the operator.
In order to ensure that the market economy operates efficiently and as free as possible from public intervention, we will continue as a fundamental principle to carry out the activities of SEEs in a higher quality manner based on economic goals and objectives.
a. What We Did
From 1985 to the end of 2002, the total amount of privatization practices completed between 1985 and the end of 2002 was 8.1 billion dollars, whereas during the period of our governments, we privatized a total of 58.9 billion dollars with transparent methods and higher value formation.
Privatizations have contributed to the formation of a more competitive economic structure while generating revenue for the public sector.
In public enterprises not under the scope of privatization, we have initiated the process of preparing and implementing strategic plans in order to embed and disseminate the strategic management approach.
b. What We Will Do
It will ensure that state-owned enterprises operate in an open, transparent and accountable structure;
We will implement governance reform to ensure that management systems are competitive and in line with good governance principles.
We will implement a revolving fund reform that will ensure that public revolving fund institutions operate in an open, transparent and accountable administrative and financial structure.
In the coming period, we will continue the activities of SEEs in a way that will not have a disruptive effect on the market mechanism.
We will promote the strategic management approach and implement practices to increase the alignment of SEE activities with strategic plans and performance programs.
In order to contribute to stable high growth, we will ensure that SEEs focus on high value-added products by improving their technological infrastructure and R&D activities, and take advantage of new export-oriented opportunities by utilizing domestic energy resources.
We will continue privatization implementations within a program determined within the framework of long-term sectoral priorities.
3.8. Savings
As AK Party, we see domestic savings as one of the important dynamics of economic growth.
Our main objective is to create a healthy growth structure by financing our productive investments, which form the basis of our economic policies, with domestic savings as well as international capital.
It will not only increase domestic savings,
We will direct them to high value-added investments in productive areas that will ensure Turkey's rapid growth.
In addition to the monetary and fiscal policies we will implement, we aim to raise domestic savings rates in line with our growth and current account deficit targets by providing incentives to households and firms.
a. What We Did
Domestic savings are very important for the health of the economic structure, and in Turkey they stood at around 15 percent of national income as of 2014.
An analysis of the data on the distribution of savings in the public and private sectors reveals that the low savings rates stem from the inadequacy of private sector savings.
As AK Party, we have significantly increased public savings thanks to the fiscal discipline we have achieved in the last 13 years.
In 2002, we increased the share of public savings in GDP by nearly 8 percentage points from minus 4.8 percent to 3.1 percent in 2014.
We made changes in the private pension system.
With the regulation, instead of the incentive practice based on deducting a certain percentage of income tax from premiums paid to the private pension system, we switched to a direct 25 percent state contribution practice.
We introduced macroprudential measures to prevent excessive acceleration in domestic credit volume, which suppresses savings.
In this context, we reorganized the relationship between credit card limits and income;
We increased the risk weights applied to credit card installments and credit card minimum payment amounts.
We rearranged the maturities of consumer loans
, we made a loan-to-value ratio adjustment in vehicle loans
and redefined the number of installments on credit cards.
In addition, within the framework of our targets to redirect savings to productive areas and to change the loan composition in favor of commercial loans, we reduced the general provision ratios for export loans and SME loans.
and Eximbank export credit insurance policies were included in the scope of credit risk mitigation techniques.
b. What We Will Do
As AK Party, we see savings as an important area of transformation in the economy.
With our "Priority Transformation Program on Increasing Domestic Savings and Preventing Waste", we aim to increase domestic savings, which is the most reliable and permanent source of financing, to direct increased domestic savings to productive investments and to reduce waste in order to ensure a high and stable growth dynamic.
We aim to raise our domestic savings rate to 19 percent in the medium term.
With the program, we will review the practices regarding the taxation of value increase gains on the disposal of real estate.
We will review tax exemptions and exemptions for loans used to finance real estate purchases, taking into account social and economic objectives.
In order to increase capacity and productivity in the manufacturing industry, we will introduce Banking and Insurance Transactions Tax (BITT) exemption in the financing of machinery-equipment investments in the manufacturing industry.
In line with international obligations, we will identify luxury goods and/or consumption goods with high import intensity and impose deterrent taxation.
We will develop special purpose savings mechanisms to encourage long-term savings.
We will develop various mechanisms, particularly gold banking, to attract savings held in the form of gold into the system.
We will continue to work on credit arrangements in areas where needed, while maintaining financial stability.
We will bring the deduction rates in the private pension system closer to international levels.
We will pilot the "automatic participation system" in the private pension system.
We will ensure the development of life insurance and long-term (over one year) private health insurance.
We will identify the groups of goods with high wastage and carry out awareness-raising and guidance activities to prevent waste.
We will conduct a general public campaign calling for austerity.
We will organize training and promotional activities for various segments to raise awareness on financial issues in Turkey.
We will increase the number of consumer courts to facilitate remedies.
3.9. Investments
Throughout our governments, our investments have always stood out among the actions we have implemented.
Increasing economic growth and employment as a Party that commits to inauguration dates while laying the foundations of investments,
We attach great importance to investments to improve the competitiveness and business environment of our country by providing the necessary infrastructure.
Not only in terms of growth and employment,
ensuring regional development,
development of our human resources,
in terms of increasing the welfare and quality of life of our citizens
Our main goal is to continue effective and efficient investments without slowing down.
We will continue to pave the way for and encourage private sector investments through our policies to improve the investment climate, which we carry out simultaneously with public investments.
a. What We Did
In the context of public investments during our government, we have both completed the ongoing projects from previous years and developed new projects and started their construction.
In 2002, the completion period of investments was 8.5 years, while in 2015, we reduced this period to 4 years, less than half of it.
Thus, we significantly increased the efficiency of the public investment program and gave it a rational structure.
During this period, we reduced unnecessary bureaucratic procedures by providing significant flexibility to project implementing organizations during the project implementation phase.
In 2002, public investment was USD 11.5 billion at current prices, private sector investment was USD 28.4 billion and total fixed capital investment was USD 39.9 billion. In 2014, we increased the amount of public investment alone to USD 39.2 billion.
With the private sector's investment of USD 126.9 billion, the total amount of fixed capital investment in 2014 reached USD 166.2 billion.
Thus, total fixed capital investment amounted to USD 1.6 trillion in the 2002-2014 period.
We have completed and realized many important and major projects in areas such as irrigation, energy, transportation, education, health, urban infrastructure and technological research.
In the 2002-2014 period, the cumulative amount of international direct investment reached USD 150 billion, thanks to the investment climate that enabled global capital to prefer Turkey.
With innovative practices such as KÖYDES, SODES, BELDES, SUKAP, Attraction Centers, GAP Action Plan, we have achieved significant local and regional success.
While the share of public investment allocations for the provinces in the GAP, DAP, KOP and DOKAP regions in total allocations was 20 percent in 2002, we have gradually increased this share to over 30 percent in recent years.
Between 1986 and the end of September 2015, contracts were signed for 200 projects with a total contract value of USD 116 billion and a total investment of USD 48.5 billion under Public-Private Partnership models.
Contracts for 132 of these projects, with a total contract value of USD 106.2 billion and an investment value of USD 39.3 billion, were signed in the period starting from 2003 until the end of September 2015.
We have made many arrangements for the private sector within the scope of the Reform Program to Improve the Investment Environment.
In this framework, we made it possible to establish a company in one day.
We abolished the minimum capital required for foreign direct investment.
We switched from a permission system to an information system.
We abolished the distinction between foreign and domestic investments in pre-incorporation procedures.
We have determined the principles regarding work permits to be issued to foreigners who will work in Turkey.
We have designated the Ministry of Labor and Social Security as the sole authorized body for these permits.
Within the Development Agencies established in 26 level-2 regions, we established Investment Support Offices as a mechanism to provide investors with sound information and facilitate their bureaucratic procedures.
We enacted the Code of Civil Procedure, which includes regulations to speed up the judicial process, to popularize arbitration, which is of great importance for investors, and to establish an arbitration culture in our country.
We started to implement a new investment incentive system that takes into account regional and sectoral priorities in addition to large investments.
We continued our efforts to simplify and reduce bureaucracy in sectoral permits.
We enacted the Law on Monitoring and Supervision of State Aid, which was prepared to ensure that incentives are regulated in line with the agreements between Turkey and the EU and notified to the relevant authorities.
We carried out Standard Cost Model (SMM) studies to simplify all permit and license processes and to measure and reduce the costs of permit processes.
In the Ease of Doing Business Report prepared by the World Bank, Turkey ranked 93rd among 155 countries in 2005 and 55th among 189 countries in 2014.
b. What We Will Do
In the period ahead, we will take a holistic approach to public and private sector investments in a complementary manner for high and stable growth.
We will concentrate public investment in areas of economic and social infrastructure that cannot be realized by the private sector.
We will use public investments as an effective tool to reduce regional development disparities and capitalize on regional development potential.
We will prioritize projects under regional action plans such as GAP, DAP, KOP and DOKAP.
We will maintain the rational structure of the investment program and ensure that projects are implemented without delay.
It will complete major projects such as the Istanbul Strait Road Tube Crossing, Yavuz Sultan Selim Bridge and the Northern Marmara Motorway, Istanbul New Airport, Gebze-İzmir Motorway (including the Bay Crossing), City Hospitals and Ports, which were initiated through the PPP method;
We will implement new projects in many areas, including new highways and high-speed train lines, through the PPP method.
The currently scattered legislation in the field of public and private sector cooperation will be regulated by a single framework law.
With the legal arrangement we will make; duties, authorities and responsibilities will be clarified between the parties of the project
Basic principles for Public-Private Cooperation models will be determined, models will be diversified The
application areas of the model will be expanded
Process management will be made more transparent and clear.
In the upcoming period, we will observe the principles of cost-effectiveness, accountability, transparency, predictability, flexibility, avoiding idle capacity and efficiency in the practices for incentivizing private investments.
We will prioritize investment areas that increase employment, high added value and exports.
For the investment expenditures of our investors in 2015 and 2016, we will apply a higher amount of tax deduction to all earnings from all other existing activities during the investment period.
We will conduct regular monitoring and evaluation of investment incentive practices, measure the macroeconomic, sectoral and regional impacts of incentives and prioritize the development of institutional capacity in these areas.
We will finalize and implement the data collection and monitoring infrastructure for government supports.
We will ensure that the data generated will form the basis for impact analyses to be conducted in this area.
At the request of investors in labor-intensive sectors, we will build turnkey, free of charge factory buildings at a symbolic rental fee.
We will ensure that the work within the scope of the Coordination Board for the Improvement of the Investment Environment (YOİKK) continues in a more effective and result-oriented manner, focusing on general problem areas.
With our "Priority Transformation Program for Improving the Business and Investment Environment", we aim to eliminate the uncertainties faced by investors and solve problems rapidly by focusing on the priority problems of the business and investment environment, and to increase investments by improving existing mechanisms for this purpose.
With the contribution of this program, we aim to increase the ratio of private sector investments to GDP, which we expect to be around 15.5 percent in 2014, to 19.3 percent by the end of 2018,
increase the amount of investment space allocation by improving investment processes
and we aim to rank among the top 40 countries in the World Bank's Ease of Doing Business Index.
Within the scope of the program, we will establish a mechanism for the fast and effective execution and finalization of the processes of obtaining permits and investment locations for investments, which are of great importance for the country's economy.
We will develop the infrastructure of geographical information systems in order to present the inventory of land suitable for investment in Turkey to investors electronically.
We will identify the problems encountered in the implementation process in Industrial Zones and Organized Industrial Zones, especially regarding the allocation of investment space, and we will improve the legislation to solve these problems.
We will ensure the integration of the services provided by the public sector to the business world in electronic environment and provide more services in electronic environment.
We will ensure simplification and unity of application in workplace opening and work licenses.
We will improve the legal processes and infrastructure related to the business and investment environment in Turkey and ensure that legal processes are finalized in a shorter time.
We will improve and make effective pre-trial dispute resolution procedures in the judicial and administrative judiciary.
We will identify a set of indicators, conduct surveys and prepare evaluation reports to assess the business and investment environment at the regional level.
3.10. Employment
As AK Party, our basic approach in the field of employment is to create more
and to create more qualified job opportunities.
To this end, while growing our economy,
on the other hand, we aim to achieve employment-friendly growth.
We consider employment not only as an economic indicator, but also as a fundamental area of reflection of economic growth on social welfare.
With the idea that the jobs we will develop and the employment we will create will increase our economic dynamism and social welfare; we aim to achieve employment-friendly growth in our second breakthrough period.
and we aim to permanently reduce unemployment to low rates in an environment where the labor market functions more effectively.
a. What We Did
Between 2002 and 2014, our first breakthrough period as AK Party, we achieved a significant decrease in the unemployment rate and increased labor force participation, especially for women.
We reduced tax burdens on employment.
Between 2002 and 2014, we provided employment opportunities for a total of 4.6 million additional people.
Especially with the impact of the global crisis, while the unemployment rate increased in many countries and new job opportunities could not be created, our country was able to achieve large increases in employment with a very successful performance.
Our active labor force policies and the employment-friendly policies we pursued in various sectors contributed to this success as much as growth.
To encourage employment, we continue to offer a discount on employer premiums.
In addition to the 5-point employer premium incentive, a 6-point employer premium incentive was introduced last year.
We have allocated a total of 9.4 billion TL in the 2015 Budget for these insurance premium incentives.
We implemented policies to encourage the employment of young people and women.
In this framework, employment increased from 21.3 million people in 2002 to 25.9 million people in 2014.
In the same period, the number of unemployed people remained largely unchanged despite the rapid increase in population and labor force participation rate, while the unemployment rate declined from 10.3 percent to 9.9 percent.
Women have been more positively affected by labor market developments than men.
The labor force participation rate of women increased from 27.9 percent to 30.3 percent in this period.
The wage employment rate for women increased from 37.9 percent in 2002 to 60 percent in 2014.
In the same period, significant improvements were also achieved in the quality of the labor market.
While the wage employment rate was 49.8 percent in 2002, it reached 66 percent in 2014.
The registered employment rate increased from 48.8 percent to 65 percent in the same period.
The share of those with high school education and above in employment increased from 27.8 percent to 39.5 percent in the same period.
We implemented the Lifelong Learning Strategy and the Action Plan for Strengthening the Relationship between Employment and Vocational Training.
In 2014, we prepared the National Employment Strategy.
We increased the number of private employment agencies from 23 in 2004 to 396.
We employed about 4 thousand job and vocational counselors to work within İŞKUR.
We enacted the Labor Law, which includes basic regulations on employment.
We have significantly expanded the scope and resources of active labor force programs run by İŞKUR.
We expanded the scope and amount of employment incentives.
b. What We Will Do
In our second breakthrough period, we will continue our policies specific to different areas to increase employment.
Reduce the unemployment rate to 5 percent by 2023 as part of the National Employment Strategy,
increase the employment rate to 50 percent,
increase women's labor force participation rate to 38 percent,
We aim to reduce the rate of informal employment in the non-agricultural sector to 15 percent.
In order to develop and expand women's entrepreneurship in Turkey, we will prepare a program to support entrepreneurs from the stage of starting a business to the development, strengthening and sustainability of the business, as well as monitoring and follow-up with the participation of relevant parties.
We will provide training, financing and mentoring support under the program.
We will pay net minimum wage to trainees who will work in the On-the-Job Training Program (IEP) for 6 months in private sector workplaces.
If the trainees are employed in the same line of business after the On-the-Job Training Program, we will pay the SSI employer premium for 42 months in the manufacturing sector and 30 months in other sectors.
We will ensure that the expenses incurred by employers for trainees can be deducted from the tax base.
Thus, while increasing employment, we will also increase the productivity of our labor force.
We will ensure that impact assessments are carried out in cooperation with the private sector and universities in order to evaluate the situation of the beneficiaries of active labor force programs organized by İŞKUR in the labor market and to measure the effectiveness of the programs.
We will add forms of work that provide flexibility to labor markets to labor and social security legislation.
We will take into account the EU Acquis and practices in these legislative arrangements.
We will make the current employment incentives simpler and more understandable.
In this context, we will review some incentive practices taking into account the analyses to be made.
By focusing on the priority problems of the business and investment environment, we will eliminate the uncertainties faced by investors and solve problems quickly.
We will implement our "Priority Transformation Program for the Activation of the Labor Market", which we have prepared to increase employment in a qualified manner and to ensure the proper functioning of the market.
Under the program, we will expand quality and affordable daycare facilities.
We will increase the contribution of local governments and the private sector in this area
and utilize public infrastructure more effectively.
We will introduce children's playrooms for women attending vocational courses.
We will prepare and implement a Women Entrepreneurship Program.
We will organize activities to raise awareness of employees and employers on equal opportunities for women and men.
We will establish a monitoring and evaluation system for Active Labor Programs and monitor the programs at the level of 81 provinces.
We will increase the number of people benefiting from new programs/projects and practices organized for groups requiring special policies.
We will establish a distance education system and make it operational.
We will make the necessary legislative arrangements in consultation with the relevant social partners to solve the problems in the severance pay system.
We will work on legislation to relax the conditions for benefiting from unemployment insurance and increase the duration of the benefit.
We will work on legislation to impose administrative fines in case of non-compliance with the overtime working limit.
We will ensure that the number of subcontractors and subcontractor workers in the public and private sectors are identified and monitored in a healthy and up-to-date manner.
We will develop the Social Assistance-Employment Linkage Information System.
We will provide information and counseling services to social assistance beneficiaries registered with İŞKUR.
We will develop incentive assistance programs such as unemployment benefits for social assistance recipients who are able to work, provided that they participate in employment-enhancing activities.
We will introduce incentives for the employer's share of social security premiums in the event that social assistance recipients are employed in the private sector.
We will conduct an impact analysis of existing employment incentives.
3.11. Agriculture and Food
Since we came to power as AK Party, we have increased the welfare of our country and the happiness of our people by making radical changes and breaking new grounds in the field of agriculture and food, which we see as a strategic sector.
Encouraging production in agricultural supports
but without neglecting the social dimension,
planned agriculture
and contemporary animal husbandry practices,
We continue to focus on effective food safety.
We are based on the necessary structural transformations in agriculture and rational and modern production models in priority areas.
Feeding its population with sufficient, high quality and reliable food with these approaches and principles,
further improving its position as a net exporter of agricultural products,
increased competitiveness,
Our main goal is to become a country that has a say in agriculture in the world and in its region.
a. What We Did
During the first breakthrough period of the AK Party, we focused on structural transformation in agriculture and implemented an approach that addresses economic and social dimensions together for our farmers.
We considered agriculture, which employs around 6 million people, as an important sector in terms of our country's food security and the healthy nutrition of our people.
During this period, we enacted 15 important laws related to the sector, including the Agriculture Law.
We have solved a 100-year-old problem of our country's agriculture.
We ended the division of agricultural land by inheritance.
We supported 17 basic products (cereals, legumes, oilseed crops, olives, tea) with high economic value in 30 basins.
We registered all agricultural parcels (32.5 million) using satellite technologies.
We have created a system that instantly detects our agricultural inventory.
We established the "Agriculture Information System" by integrating all systems.
While 450 thousand hectares of land consolidation was carried out in 41 years until 2002, we completed consolidation on 4.5 million hectares in the period 2003-2014.
While 4.8 million hectares of our 8.5 million hectares of land, which is the total economic irrigable area in our country, could be irrigated until 2002, we increased this amount to 6.1 million hectares by the end of 2014 thanks to our efforts.
We have provided zero-interest loans for drip and sprinkler irrigation investments since 2006 and 50 percent grant support since 2007.
With these supports and grants, we opened 5 million decares of land to irrigation with drip and sprinkler systems.
We established the National Food Reference Laboratory, the first laboratory of our country to be an international reference.
As a result of all these developments in the first breakthrough period, we made our country the largest country in Europe in terms of agricultural GDP. We raised Turkey from 4th to 1st place in Europe in terms of agricultural output.
We increased our agricultural national income from 36 billion TL in 2002 to 125 billion TL in 2014.
In 2014, we increased our total exports of agricultural products from USD 3.8 billion in 2002 to USD 18 billion.
We have made Turkey a country exporting 1,781 types of agricultural products to 193 countries.
We increased our exports of animal products, livestock and aquaculture products from 247 million dollars to 2.1 billion dollars between 2002 and 2014.
In 2014, agricultural loan interest rates, which were 59 percent at Ziraat Bank in 2002, were applied between zero percent and 8.25 percent depending on the loan subject.
We increased the amount of credit extended by Ziraat Bank and Agricultural Credit Cooperatives from 530 million TL in 2002 to 22.8 billion TL in 2014.
Between 2012-2014, we built "a thousand ponds and irrigation facilities in a thousand days" with an investment expenditure of 3.3 billion TL.
With this project, we irrigated 1 million 700 thousand decares of agricultural land.
Especially in the process that started with the GAP Action Plan (2008-2012), we rapidly increased irrigation allocations and ensured that projects in other priority regions benefit from this increase in addition to GAP.
Since 2008, when we announced the GAP Action Plan in Diyarbakır, we have accelerated investments by increasing irrigation allocations 7-fold.
While 2 million decares of land were irrigated in GAP until 2002, we increased the irrigated land to 4 million 430 thousand decares by the end of 2014.
Between 2002 and 2014, we completed and realized many large projects such as Seydişehir-Suğla Storage, Sultansuyu, Lower Susurluk Manyas I. Merhale, Yaylak Irrigation, Van-Karasu, Karaman I. Merhale, Lower Gediz, Gölhisar-Acıpayam I. Merhale, Erzincan II. Merhale, Lower Ceyhan Aslantaş II. Merhale, Menderes Stream, Bağbaşı Dam and Mavi Tunnel, Lower Fırat I. Merhale, Iğdır and Lower Büyük Menderes.
Silvan I. Merhale, Lower Euphrates II. Merhale, Kralkızı Tigris, Konya Çumra III. Merhale, Kars Stream Basin I. Merhale, Middle Ceyhan Menzelet II. Merhale, Bahçelik, Bozova, Suruç, Çarşamba Plain Irrigation, Lower Çekerek I. Merhale, Amik-Afrin are among our important projects still ongoing in the Investment Program.
Over the last decade, we have increased yields per unit area and animal and agricultural labor productivity.
In addition to milk and white meat production, we achieved production increases due to increased yields, especially in corn, rice and sunflower.
As a result of our efforts to develop animal husbandry and record production, we increased total red meat production from 421 thousand tons in 2002 to 1 million tons by the end of 2014.
We increased milk production from 8.4 million tons in 2002 to 18.5 million tons in 2014.
Total agricultural support payments, which were 1.87 billion TL in 2002, amounted to 9.5 billion TL in 2014.
Since 2003, the total cash grant agricultural support we have provided to our farmers has reached 70 billion TL.
Since 2002, we have increased the share of support for animal husbandry in total support 35 times.
While 83 million TL livestock support was given in 2002, we increased the support given to livestock to 2.9 billion TL in 2014.
While the share of livestock support in total support was 4.4 percent in 2002, we increased this rate to nearly 30 percent in 2014.
On the other hand, we have completed 313 projects under the GAP and DAP Livestock Development Program, while 102 projects are ongoing.
We increased the number of products given premium support from 4 to 17.
While premium support was 186 million TL in 2002, it reached 2.7 billion TL in 2014.
Between 2003 and 2014, we made 5 billion 313 million TL diesel subsidy payments to our producers.
With the subsidy, we covered an average of 16 percent of the cost of diesel oil.
Between 2005 and 2014, we made a total fertilizer support payment of 4 billion 977 million TL.
With the support, we covered an average of 15 percent of the fertilizer cost.
In order to transform agricultural product markets into a more competitive and efficient structure, we have made regulations on haller markets, licensed warehousing, commodity specialization exchanges and futures and options transactions.
We increased the rate of certified cereal (wheat-barley) seed use to 70 percent in 2014.
We increased organic agriculture production to 213 products in 2013.
We have made significant progress in the establishment of agricultural gene banks and the development of new crop varieties.
In 2014, we increased our forest cover from 20.7 million hectares in 2002 to 21.7 million hectares.
In the same period, we carried out afforestation activities on 42 million decares, erosion control activities on 654 thousand hectares and rehabilitation activities on 2.57 million hectares of degraded forest areas.
In the last 13 years, we have produced 4.1 billion saplings and established 127 urban forests.
We have also developed more effective methods to fight forest fires.
With the technological investments we have made and the radar and Automatic Meteorological Observation Stations (OMGI) we have completed, we have increased the accuracy rate in our meteorological forecasts.
We have increased our accuracy rate in weather forecasts to over 90 percent.
b. What We Will Do
In our second breakthrough period, we will continue to successfully implement our agricultural policies.
Cumulatively, we will complete land consolidation works on 8 million hectares of land
and in-field development services.
We will organize agricultural subsidies at the level of sub-basins, regionally and on a product basis in 190 agricultural sub-basins, taking into account climate, soil and topography, as well as existing water potential and water consumption of plants.
Supports will be organized for social and production-oriented purposes;
will take into account the environment and plant, animal and human health;
We will monitor and evaluate the effectiveness of support.
In 2015, we will increase the amount of cash grants to 10 billion TL.
We will abolish VAT on feed.
We will abolish VAT on fertilizer.
We will provide 30 thousand liras of free support to our young farmers in return for the project.
We will make support payments to farmers cultivating fruits, vegetables, ornamental plants, medicinal-medicinal-aromatic plants with an enterprise size of less than 5 decares.
We will provide interest-free loans to farmers for the modernization of their greenhouses.
In order to reduce costs, we will apply irrigation water electricity price to greenhouses instead of commercial electricity price.
In agricultural subsidies, we will give importance to certified production methods by considering the harmony of crop pattern and water potential.
We will expand the scope of agricultural insurance and make it widespread.
We will continue the projects carried out to improve agricultural statistics and registration systems, and harmonize all agricultural information systems with the EU by improving the information infrastructure and administrative structure for the implementation of agricultural policies.
We will implement new legal regulations to protect producers and consumers.
We will carry out projects to bring enterprises to economic scale.
We will provide credit facilities to competent heirs who wish to expand their land holdings.
We will provide special support to farmers who create large-scale agricultural enterprises by combining their land.
We will complete "Land Use Plans" and "Identification of Our Plains" studies that will protect our agricultural lands and fertile plains.
We will complete the agriculture census.
We will organize agricultural data in a single database and keep it up-to-date.
We will complete and effectively use the Agriculture Sector Integrated Management Information System (TARSEY), a system where all agricultural data from producers to consumers are monitored, evaluated and reported.
We will implement the National Agricultural Inventory Tracking Systems (ÜTES), which will ensure continuous data flow by compiling all data used in agricultural planning at the point of production, in a widespread and effective manner.
In order to monitor agricultural drought more effectively, 400 agricultural meteorology stations working within the scope of TARBİL will be increased to 1,200 and will be expanded throughout the country.
We will establish 14 new research centers.
We will open our country's first National Botanical Garden in Ankara.
With our "Priority Transformation Program for Efficient Water Use in Agriculture", we aim to prevent waste and use water effectively in the agricultural sector, where more than 70 percent of the total water use in our country takes place.
We will ensure the efficient use of water in our new investments, and we will accelerate improvement works for the efficient use of water in the systems we have inherited from the past.
In DSİ irrigations, we aim to increase the irrigation rate from 62 percent to 68 percent and the irrigation efficiency from 42 percent to 50 percent.
Within the scope of the program, the final target of 8.5 million hectares of irrigated land will be achieved;
We will continue to invest in pressurized modern irrigation, especially those that allow water savings.
We will carry out the rehabilitation of existing irrigation facilities within a program.
We will accelerate our program to convert open systems into closed ones.
We will popularize water-saving methods such as sprinkler and drip irrigation.
We will investigate the use of treated water for irrigation.
In irrigation investments, we will prioritize those with gravity and low pumpage.
We will implement awareness-raising and capacity-building activities on effective water use and conservation, especially for farmers.
We will review agricultural subsidies to take into account basin characteristics and water constraints.
We will expand modern monitoring systems in irrigation networks.
We will support investments that enable water savings.
We will review the water management and pricing system with a view to increasing water savings.
With appropriate transitional arrangements, we will ensure registration and control of groundwater use.
In addition to new investments, we will also give importance to the rehabilitation of facilities that are outdated, out of use or cannot be used properly
and contribute to the efficient use of limited water resources.
We will develop quantity restrictions and pricing mechanisms to ensure controlled use of groundwater resources in agriculture.
We will review the working processes of irrigation unions and create alternatives to make the system more effective.
We will increase training and extension activities for agricultural producers for the conscious use of water.
By 2019, we aim to irrigate 10 million decares of additional land.
After the main canals in GAP, which we have completed to a great extent, we will further accelerate network constructions.
In the medium term, we aim to open all 10 million 580 thousand decares of GAP irrigations to irrigation.
When irrigation is completed, GAP will become a "production and export center" producing food and exporting it to the world.
With the Konya Plain Project covering the provinces of Konya, Karaman, Aksaray and Niğde, the water flowing to the Mediterranean will be directed to the Konya Plain,
Completion of dams, ponds and irrigation systems,
We aim to save water and energy consumption by converting wild underground irrigation to sprinkler or drip irrigation methods.
As of the end of 2014, 9 million 240 thousand decares of land is irrigated in KOP.
By the end of 2019, we aim to open all 11 million decares of land to irrigation.
With the Eastern Anatolia Project covering 14 provinces, we will make our farmers smile by opening 2.3 million decares of land to irrigation by the end of 2019.
In the field of irrigation, we aim to complete the Silvan Dam and the associated intermediate storages and irrigate 200 thousand hectares of land with the Silvan I. Merhale Project, for which we have allocated 5.7 billion TL.
The completion of these works will provide a significant increase in income and employment, especially in the province of Diyarbakır.
When the project is completed, 2 million 454 thousand decares of land will be irrigated.
We will also complete the Ilısu Hydro-Electric Power Plant Project and the Yusufeli Dam and Hydro-Electric Power Plant Project.
We will protect agricultural areas through planning.
Development of high value-added products,
conservation of genetic resources,
reclamation work,
by prioritizing studies on nanotechnology and biotechnology,
We will increase cooperation between agriculture-industry-university through guided projects.
"We will create a 'National Clustering Strategy for the Olive and Olive Oil Sector'.
We will expand contract production in plant production, especially safflower, canola and soybean.
We will increase certified seed production to 880 thousand tons.
We will increase the share of organic agriculture in agricultural areas from 1.95 percent to 4 percent.
"Organic Waste and Residue Management" Integrated Project will be implemented to expand the use of organic waste and residues in agriculture.
We will bring the first local potato varieties into production.
We will prevent the risks that may arise from genetically modified organisms and products, ensure traceability of such products and ensure the effective operation of the control and inspection system.
Licensing of protection products in the field of phytosanitary including imports,
control of the biological effects of authorized products
and development of the established monitoring infrastructure,
We will ensure that awareness is raised among producers.
We will make nutritional information mandatory on the labels of packaged products.
We will continue to reduce salt and sugar in food to the extent that technology allows.
Citizens will be able to find out what benefits the ingredients in the food they consume will bring to them.
We will ensure the identification, protection and sustainable use of biodiversity, which is important for the agricultural sector.
We will provide rental support to producers who store their products in licensed warehouses.
Within the scope of the 1 million tons capacity "Grain Storage Project"; 300 thousand tons of warehouses have been put into service, 120 thousand tons of warehouses are under construction, and an additional 580 thousand tons of warehouses will be built until 2018.
12 million hectares of pastureland identified,
7.2 million hectares demarcated,
4 million hectares allocated,
On 800 thousand hectares, we will complete reclamation works.
We will start producing decaffeinated black tea and green tea.
We will increase the added value of local and traditional products and their contribution to exports.
It will renovate meat combines in Erzurum, Van, Sakarya and Diyarbakır,
We will start operating a chicken combination in Erzincan province.
We will ensure that the purchase and sale of raw milk going to industry through producers and producer organizations is carried out in a contracted manner.
We will increase incentives for sheep and goat breeding.
We will ensure that sheep and goats are registered and monitored and animal diseases are taken under control.
We will develop a contract model for milk and meat production.
To realize resource management in fisheries based on scientific data and in an effective manner,
We will strengthen administrative capacity.
We will establish the "Fishing Vessel Monitoring and Data Collection System".
Environmental sustainability will be considered in aquaculture,
Competitiveness in international markets will be increased through product diversity and branding.
We will expand advanced techniques and production systems in aquaculture.
We will complete a total of 12 fishing harbors in various provinces to put them into the service of our fishermen.
We will accelerate forest cadastral works to protect the boundaries of forests and solve ownership problems.
The principle of sustainable management that considers the economic, social and ecological functions of forests will be adopted,
We will utilize the potential of wood and non-wood forest products and ensure effective management in production and marketing.
In the Second GAP Action Plan, we will prioritize the development of human and social resources and the completion of basic infrastructure investments.
We will prioritize the development of agriculture and animal husbandry in the DAP Action Plan.
The KOP Action Plan will be based on increasing sectoral diversity by ensuring the sustainable use of soil and water resources.
In the DOKAP Action Plan, we will adopt a tourism-oriented sustainable development approach.
3.12. Energy Security
As AK Party, we aim to ensure both supply security in the field of energy, which is a strategic sector.
and to provide lower-cost input to our economic development is our priority approach.
With this approach, the supply of energy to the final consumer in a continuous, high quality, secure and cost-efficient manner
and diversification of sources in energy supply.
To utilize our domestic and renewable energy resources to the maximum extent possible
and we envision the use of nuclear technology in electricity generation
. Not wasting energy
and minimizing their environmental impact
Our main objective is to achieve a competitive energy system that strengthens Turkey's strategic position in international energy trade.
a. What We Did
To create sufficient electric power generation capacity during our governments,
diversification of energy sources,
renewable energy sources,
privatization of generation and distribution facilities.
We increased the installed capacity from 31,846 MW in 2002 to 71,859 MW by the end of August 2015.
Electricity generation reached 250 billion kWh, up from 129 billion kWh.
Electricity consumption per capita increased from 2,046 kW hours to 3,289 kW hours per year.
We have also made significant progress in electricity generation from renewable sources.
We increased the installed capacity of renewable energy from 12,300 MW in 2002 to 30,246 MW by the end of August 2015.
We increased the hydroelectric power generation potential from 26 billion kWh to 82.8 billion kWh.
In 13 years, we built 278 dams and 245 ponds, including 18 large HEPPs.
We increased the annual investment amount in the energy sector from 4.5 billion TL in 2002 to 13.6 billion TL in 2014.
We have taken concrete steps in nuclear energy, which has been discussed for many years.
We signed the agreement for the construction of 2 nuclear power plants, 4,800 MW in Akkuyu and 4,480 MW in Sinop.
In addition to these two plants, we have started negotiations with some countries for a third plant.
We transferred 21 electricity distribution companies to the private sector.
As a result of our privatization efforts in electricity generation, we reduced the public share in installed capacity from 66 percent in 2002 to 31.5 percent in 2014.
74 of 81 provinces were connected to natural gas, and 69 provinces started to use natural gas in the residential sector.
We started construction of the Tuz Lake Natural Gas Underground Storage Project in 2012 to regulate seasonal, daily and hourly changes in natural gas consumption and ensure security of supply.
In 2003, we commissioned the Black Sea transit Russia-Turkey Natural Gas Pipeline, which was built as part of the Blue Stream Project to supply natural gas to Turkey directly from the Russian Federation without transit countries.
The Baku-Tbilisi-Ceyhan (BTC) Crude Oil Pipeline, which transports oil from Azerbaijan through Azerbaijan, Georgia and Turkey to the Ceyhan marine terminal, was put into operation.
In 2007, we started exporting natural gas to Greece through the Turkey-Greece Natural Gas Pipeline.
We signed an intergovernmental agreement with Azerbaijan for the realization of the Trans-Anatolian Natural Gas Pipeline (TANAP) Project
and we started the construction of the project.
By integrating with the European Transmission System, we made it possible to trade electricity at a certain capacity.
Between 2002 and 2014, we made important legislative arrangements.
We enacted the Law on the Utilization of Renewable Energy Resources for Electricity Generation, the Energy Efficiency Law, the Energy Efficiency Strategy Document and the Electricity Market Law.
We increased the share of the mining sector in GDP from 0.9 percent in 2002 to 1.5 percent in 2014.
We increased our mining exports from 0.38 billion dollars in 2002 to 3.4 billion dollars in 2014.
We significantly increased the resources allocated for investments in the exploration of minerals, energy raw materials and geothermal resources to reduce external dependence on energy and to meet the need for raw materials in industry.
In the 2002-2014 period, while the allocation allocated to the General Directorate of Mineral Research and Exploration (MTA) for mineral and geothermal resource exploration was 16.75 million TL in 2002, we increased this amount to 212 million TL in 2015.
Between 2002 and 2015, we increased the allocation to TPAO for oil and natural gas exploration from 105 million TL to 1,445 million TL.
As a result of exploration activities carried out between 2002-2014, we increased the known lignite coal reserves from 8.3 billion tons to 14 billion tons.
We have identified significant reserves in many minerals such as gold, zinc, copper, zeolite, feldspar, quartz, marble and geothermal fields.
Oil and natural gas exploration activities initiated by TPAO and BOTAŞ abroad continue.
In order to increase domestic production in oil and natural gas, we ensured that TPAO purchased a seismic research vessel in 2012 to ensure that exploration activities are carried out without interruption.
We have completed the construction of MTA's fully equipped national research vessel.
We have made comprehensive amendments to the Mining Law to address the problems encountered in practice.
We ensured that the Law on Geothermal Resources and Natural Mineral Waters, which regulates the effective use of geothermal and natural mineral water resources in our country, entered into force.
We repealed the old law and enacted the Turkish Petroleum Law, which includes comprehensive amendments on oil and natural gas licenses, especially the incentives for exploration and production activities.
In order to increase the storage, injection and reproduction capacities of natural gas storage facilities, we are continuing our North Marmara and Değirmenköy Fields Underground Storage Facilities Capacity Increase Project, which is programmed by TPAO in 3 phases.
b. What We Will Do
As AK Party, we will continue to provide cheap, high quality and safe energy to our citizens and producers in our second breakthrough period.
By the end of 2017, we plan to complete natural gas transmission to the residential sector in all provinces.
We will increase natural gas storage capacity.
In this context, we plan to complete and commission the first phase of the ongoing Tuz Gölü Underground Storage project, which will provide 1 billion m3 of gas storage capacity when completed, in 2017 and the second phase in 2019.
The Trans Adriatic Natural Gas Pipeline Project (TAP) is planned to transport natural gas to Italy via Greece and Albania.
Again, with the Iraq-Turkey Natural Gas Pipeline Project, gas purchases for Turkey and Europe are planned to be realized.
Karapınar Energy Specialized Industrial Zone with a capacity of 4,000 MW was declared on an area of 6,000 hectares that cannot be used for agricultural purposes.
In 2016, it is aimed to allocate land to investors.
Ilısu Power Plant, which will be the second largest dam and HEPP in Turkey in terms of filling volume and the fourth largest dam and HEPP with an installed capacity of 1,200 MW, will generate an annual average of 3.8 billion KW/h of energy.
With a body height of 270 meters, we will complete the Artvin Yusufeli Dam, which will be the highest dam in Turkey and the 3rd highest dam in the world.
We will increase the capacity for electricity trade with neighboring countries.
Our efforts to strengthen the infrastructure of the electricity transmission network and transform it into a modern network will continue.
Initiated in 2010, privatization of electricity generation assets will continue.
Increasing the use of energy efficient products compared to inefficient products will be encouraged.
We will ensure the utilization of large lignite basins such as Afşin-Elbistan and other reserves with lower capacity.
We will accelerate coal exploration and increase reserves.
We will increase domestic and international oil and natural gas exploration and production.
In line with the goal of reducing external dependence in energy production, we will accelerate oil and natural gas exploration activities in Turkey and abroad.
We will maximize exploration activities to identify the potential of domestic resources such as lignite coal and geothermal resources.
On shale gas, we will ensure that comprehensive research activities are carried out.
We will prioritize domestic exploration and production of industrial raw materials, especially iron ore, marble and boron.
We will develop a strategy for the safe supply of raw materials that are essential and critical for the Turkish economy.
We will establish a system to regulate the export of critical raw materials, minerals and minerals.
With regard to the list of critical raw materials determined by countries and country groups, we will initiate an exploration program for the search and production of raw materials in Turkey, especially rare earth elements.
We will improve the mining sector's compliance with environmental legislation.
We will effectively implement the regulations we have made in the Mining Law and other relevant laws to increase occupational health and safety measures in the mining sector.
We will ensure that mining products such as chrome and marble are processed domestically and the added value generated is increased.
We will support the creation of global-scale and highly competitive mining companies.
We will restructure MTA according to today's needs to ensure that MTA is restructured according to today's needs.
We will prepare an action plan to remove TTK from a loss-making structure and ensure the restructuring of the institution.
An important reform area in energy is our "Priority Transformation Program for Energy Production Based on Domestic Resources".
The aim of our program is to reduce our dependence on foreign energy by mobilizing our domestic resources to the maximum extent.
The program aims to increase the share of domestic resources in primary energy production from 28 percent in 2013 to 35 percent.
On the other hand, we aim to increase electricity generated from domestic coal from 32 billion kWh to 57 billion kWh and to add 10,000 MW to our hydroelectric capacity.
Within the scope of the program, we will develop new support and financing models specific to this field.
We will improve the investment climate by reducing bureaucracy.
We will strengthen inter-institutional coordination.
We will accelerate exploration and R&D activities.
We will renew our inventory and accelerate efforts to improve our capacity in renewable energy such as solar, wind and geo-thermal.
We will bring our lignite resources to our economy at the maximum level in a rational way.
With our "Priority Transformation Program for Improving Energy Efficiency", we are protecting the environment with less carbon emissions,
On the other hand, we aim to increase our competitiveness by using fewer inputs.
While reducing primary energy intensity with the program,
We will promote energy efficiency, particularly in public buildings and facilities.
In this context, we will intensify awareness-raising activities on energy efficiency and disseminate good practice examples.
We will establish a management information system and strengthen coordination in the field of energy efficiency.
We will develop new models for financing energy efficiency investments.
We will differentiate our taxation system, including vehicles, in favor of energy efficiency.
We will expand the model of energy performance contracts.
We will support the production and use of high efficiency electric motors in industry.
We will support investments in energy efficiency in existing buildings, especially in residential buildings.
We will expand smart transportation systems.
We will develop special support programs for SMEs in the field of energy efficiency.
We will make maximum use of waste heat in thermal power plants and industry.
3.13. Transportation and Logistics
As AK Party, transportation and logistics is undoubtedly one of the areas that we have given the most importance and invested in during our first breakthrough period of 13 years.
Our Party attaches special importance to the development of transportation and logistics infrastructures, which are the lifeblood of major economies, and thus to increasing the competitiveness of our country.
Our main objective is to establish a transportation and logistics system that contributes to the competitiveness of our country and the improvement of the quality of life of our society, where safe, economical, comfortable, fast and environmentally friendly services are provided, and where combined transportation and logistics centers are effectively implemented.
a. What We Did
During our governments, the transportation investments we have realized have assumed a very important function in increasing the competitiveness of our country and improving the quality of life of our citizens.
In the past 13 years, we have demonstrated that we have the power to realize the huge transportation projects that are the envy of the whole world.
With the investments we made, we opened the blocked veins of our country in the field of transportation.
We have integrated north and south, east and west with the transportation axes we have created.
Highways, divided roads, airports, airports, high-speed rail lines, ports and shipyards, smart communication systems are all part of the success record of our governments.
In 13 years, we have made many times more transportation investments than in eighty years.
Between 2002 and 2015, we realized 243 billion liras of investment.
Our main priority in this period has been to increase safety in road transportation, to give our roads a world-class quality appearance, and to provide the best road transportation opportunities to regions that have been neglected for years.
We have completed many major projects, especially the Black Sea Coastal Road Project and the Bolu Tunnel Project, which cover approximately 550 km of highway standard divided road along the strip extending from Sinop to Sarp border gate, and provided our citizens with the opportunity to travel more safely and comfortably.
While there were 6,101 km of divided roads, including 1,714 km of highways, by the end of 2002, we increased the length of divided roads to 24,032 km, including 2,285 km of highways, as of September 2015.
Thus, we put into service 17,931 km of divided roads, including 571 km of highways.
While only 6 provinces were connected to each other with divided roads in 2002, today 75 provinces are connected to each other with divided roads.
Thanks to the divided roads we have constructed, the loss of life in traffic accidents, which was 5.7 per 100 million vehicle km in 2003, decreased to 2.23 as of 2014.
We are developing major highway corridors from north to south, east to west.
We completed 78.2 percent of the north-south corridors and put 9,513 km of roads into the service of our citizens.
We completed 88 percent of the east-west corridors and opened 7,237 km of roads.
By the end of 2014, our total road network reached 66,179 km, including 2,285 km of highways, 32,641 km of provincial roads and 31,253 km of state roads.
While only 50 km. of tunnels were built between 1923-2002, we built 255 km. of tunnels during our 13 years in power.
We opened the Nissibi bridge.
We reformed the road transportation sector. During this period, we introduced the principles of professional and financial competence and professional dignity into our legislation.
We laid the foundations for an institutionalized transportation sector where businesses with these competencies can operate.
By establishing 282 Vocational Training Centers, we trained more than 600 thousand members of the sector and certified 300 thousand successful individuals.
We established 75 Roadside Inspection Stations across the country.
We inspected more than 35 million vehicles and drivers annually for tonnage and documents, preventing over-tonnage and unauthorized transportation activities.
We started the practice of having the technical inspections of vehicles carried out by the private sector under state supervision.
We ensured that 197 fixed and 73 mobile inspection stations were established across Turkey and 7.5 million vehicles were inspected annually.
We withdrew approximately 120 thousand commercial vehicles that had completed their economic and technical life from traffic on a voluntary basis and for a fee.
We have initiated inspections to ensure that dangerous goods transportation activities are carried out safely and in accordance with the required technical standards and procedures.
In railways, we attached importance to the construction of high-speed train lines, modernization of existing lines, and renewal of traction and towing vehicles.
In this context, we built a high-speed train network of approximately 1,213 km for the first time in Turkey.
As of September 2015, we increased the length of conventional railway lines from 10,959 km in 2002 to 12,485 km.
Between 2003 and 2015, we renewed a total of 9,686 km of conventional railway lines.
Thus, we have renewed almost all of our existing lines.
On the other hand, we continued electrification and signaling investments on the existing 3,573 km long line.
We opened the Ankara-Eskişehir High Speed Train line in 2009, Ankara-Konya High Speed Train line in 2011, Eskişehir-Konya High Speed Train line in 2013, Ankara-İstanbul High Speed Train line and İstanbul-Konya High Speed Train line in 2014.
We have completed Muratlı-Tekirdağ Railway, Cumaovası-Tepeköy (İzmir) 2nd Line Construction, railway construction increasing Ankara-Sincan from 3 to 6 lines, Turgutlu-Kemalpaşa railway construction and Tecer-Kangal Variant.
During our period in power, we have made significant progress not only in high-speed train investments and operations, but also in urban rail systems.
We realized the project of the century, Marmaray, which connects Asia to Europe by rail under the Bosphorus.
Until 2002, approximately 280 km of urban rail lines were in operation in 4 cities in Turkey, namely Istanbul, Ankara, Izmir and Konya.
As of September 2015, we increased the length of our rail lines to 620 km and the number of cities with rail lines from 4 to 11.
We have recently launched the Istanbul Otogar-Bağcılar-İkitelli Rail System and the Ankara Kızılay-Çayyolu and Batıkent-Sincan lines.
We completed the Istanbul-Levent-Hisarüstü Metro line.
We have prepared the necessary legal basis for the private sector to carry freight and passengers with their own trains on our existing railway network.
We are establishing logistics centers to increase the competitiveness of our enterprises, facilitate their marketing opportunities and make combined transportation more efficient.
We commissioned 7 logistics centers in Denizli-Kaklık, Samsun-Gelemen, İzmit-Köseköy, Uşak, İstanbul Halkalı, Eskişehir-Hasanbey and Balıkesir-Gökköy.
We are continuing the survey, project and construction works of 13 logistics centers.
We have liberalized the aviation sector through many regulations.
With the new airports we built in many provinces and the modernizations we made in existing airports, we ensured the rapid growth of the sector and made the airway the way of the people.
Thus, we have enabled our citizens, who have never met an airplane before, to travel comfortably by air.
While the number of active airports was 26 and the total number of annual passengers was 33.7 million at the end of 2002, the number of airports increased to 55 and the total number of annual passengers to 166.5 million as of September 2015.
In the same period, the total number of aircraft in our fleet increased from 110 to 422, while aircraft traffic rose from 530 thousand to 1.7 million.
During our government, we turned our national airline company into a world brand.
We have started construction of Istanbul 3rd airport, which will contribute significantly to our growth in aviation and to the development of our country by strengthening our position as a transfer center between Western Europe and the Far East.
When completed, we aim to make it the largest airport in the world with a passenger capacity of 150 million.
We completed Ordu-Giresun Airport, one of the few airports built on the sea in the world.
We have built many new airports in Eastern and Southeastern Anatolia.
Thus, we connected our provinces and regions with these airports and introduced air transportation to our citizens.
We have also completed the Hakkari airport, which we attach great importance to, and put it into service.
By abandoning the understanding that the airline sector is only about airport construction and passenger transportation, and by accelerating efforts to mobilize national capabilities in the space and aviation industry, we have reached a capacity to produce satellites.
With the 4A satellite, which was built with the contribution of Turkish engineers and successfully launched into space in February 2014, our television channels can now transmit their broadcasts to a wide area from Asia to Europe, from the Middle East to Africa.
With the regulations we have made and the measures taken, we have brought the maritime sector to the brightest period in the history of the Republic.
We have improved the capacity of the maritime administration to fulfill our country's national and international maritime responsibilities in a timely and complete manner and to strengthen the maritime sector,
We reduced the high retention rate of Turkish ships in ports abroad.
In order to establish safe and secure maritime transportation, we have established ship tracking and control systems to increase the safety of navigation, life, property and the environment along our coasts.
We have solved the collateralization problem faced by the shipbuilding industry with the regulations we have made,
We provided scrap support for the renewal of our old coaster fleet in Turkish shipyards with domestic contribution.
We act with a meticulous maritime policy in order to benefit from the maritime advantages of our country's geographical location in a qualified manner.
Ranked 19th in 2003, our Turkish-owned fleet today ranks 15th in the world.
We increased the number of shipyards from 37 in 2002 to 72.
Between 2002 and 2014, we significantly increased maritime transportation.
In 2002, Turkey's total cargo handling was 150 million tons, while this figure reached 383 million tons in 2014.
While container handling was 1.9 million TEU in 2002, this figure reached 8.4 million TEU by the end of 2014. We increased container handling capacity from 3 million TEU in 2002 to 11.5 million TEU in 2014.
Between 2002 and 2014, we completed many shipyards and marine infrastructure.
Some of these are Sürmene-Yeniçam Shipyard, Samsun Tekkeköy Shipyard, Karadeniz Ereğli Shipyards Region Breakwater, İnebolu Port Expansion, Rize Port Main Breakwater Repair.
We increased the number of fishing harbors from 178 in 2002 to 225 at the end of 2014 by adding 47 new fishing harbors and put them into the service of our fishermen.
We increased our yacht mooring capacity from 8,500 in 2002 to 15,514 as of September 2015 and put it at the service of our tourism sector.
We have completed the breakwater of Çandarlı Port, which is expected to be one of the most important main ports of Turkey,
We have also started the tender process for the regionally important Filyos Port.
We have also made significant progress in maritime safety.
We ensured that the Turkish flag fleet was white-listed in accordance with the Paris Memorandum, to which many countries, especially EU countries, are party.
Thus, we significantly reduced the number of ships inspected and detained in the ports of the EU, our most important trade partner.
With the completion of the Automatic Identification System, Vessel Traffic Services System in the Turkish Straits and important ports, and Remote Monitoring System for Aids to Navigation projects, we ensured that Turkey fulfills its flag and coastal state obligations at the best level.
By providing the necessary equipment and taking the necessary measures, we have increased the safety of navigation on the sea routes.
We established the legal infrastructure for the restructuring of the postal sector.
We restructured the PTT General Directorate into a joint stock company under the name PTT A.Ş., which is fully publicly owned but operates in accordance with the provisions of the Turkish Commercial Code.
We automated all PTT workplaces.
b. What We Will Do
In our second breakthrough period, we will continue to integrate our regions and provinces with each other and build a strong logistics and transportation infrastructure for both passengers and freight.
On highways, we will complete our main axes connecting the north to the south, east to the west, and east to south, and develop our highway network.
We will transform our country into one of the world's most important transit centers in the aviation and maritime sectors.
In railways, we will significantly complete our high-speed and high-speed train lines.
Thus, we will provide Turkey with a transportation infrastructure at the standards of developed countries.
We will continue to construct divided roads in sections with high traffic density in order to increase traffic safety and shorten transportation times.
We will connect important transportation corridors with a highway network and build new highways with the BOT model, especially in the Marmara Region.
We will complete and put into service the Istanbul-Bursa-İzmir (including the Bay Crossing Bridge) and the Northern Marmara Motorway, which are important parts of this network.
We will also start the construction of an important part of this belt, the route of the Çanakkale Bosphorus Bridge, which also includes a railroad.
Thus, we will create the Marmara Ring surrounded by highways and bridges.
We will complete the Yavuz Sultan Selim Bridge and the Eurasia tunnel.
We will start construction of the Ankara-Nigde Motorway and the Ankara-Kırıkkale-Delice, Mersin-Silifke (Taşucu), Çiğli-Aliağa-Çandarlı and Antalya-Alanya Motorways.
We aim to realize the Aydın-Denizli-Burdur, Afyonkarahisar-Burdur-Antalya, Ankara-Sivrihisar, Sivrihisar-Bursa, Sivrihisar-İzmir, Şanlıurfa-Diyarbakır-Habur, Delice-Samsun, Kınalı-Tekirdağ-Çanakkale-Balıkesir, Gerede-Merzifon, Yalova-İzmit and Merzifon-Gürbulak Motorway Projects by 2023.
We will continue BSK construction on roads with high heavy vehicle traffic.
We will complete 62 tunnels with a length of 128 km, including Ovit, Cankurtaran and Salmankaş Tunnels connecting Eastern Anatolia to the Black Sea Region, Ilgaz Tunnel connecting Central Anatolia to the Black Sea, Cudi Tunnel connecting Cizre and Şırnak, 6 tunnels between Mersin and Antalya making the Mediterranean coast passable.
We will also open Kömürhan and Ağın Bridges and many viaducts.
We will implement mega transportation projects.
Instead of building two tunnels under the Bosphorus Strait, we designed the 3-storey Great Istanbul Tunnel, a first in the world, which includes road and metro crossings in a single tunnel in a single pass.
We will start the construction of the project, which will connect a total of 9 different rail systems that will be used by 6.5 million citizens a day, and will relieve the traffic on the Bosphorus and Fatih Sultan Mehmet Bridges with the BOT model.
We continue to work on the Canal Istanbul Project, which will be one of the biggest projects of the century.
With the project, a canal will be built on the European side, between the Black Sea and the Sea of Marmara, and Istanbul will become a city with two straits running through it.
We have initiated project studies to realize the high-speed train project, which will reduce the distance between Ankara and Istanbul to 1.5 hours, in stages, with the BOT model.
In the coming period, we will increase the Ankara-based high speed train core network to 3,623 km.
We will complete the Ankara-İzmir High Speed Train Project, one of the most important ones.
Thus, half of the country's population will benefit from the comfort of high-speed trains.
We will continue to construct the high-speed train lines that will carry freight and passengers on the East-West railway axes from Kapıkule to Kars and from İzmir to Habur, and the high-speed train lines that will carry freight and passengers on the North-South axes of İstanbul-Antalya, İstanbul-İzmir-Aydın, Karasu-Antalya, Zonguldak-Mersin, Samsun-Çorum-Kırıkkale-Ankara, Kayseri-Nevşehir-Aksaray-Konya-Antalya, Samsun-Gaziantep in sections.
We will integrate our railway network, which we will build up to our borders to enable freight and passenger transportation by rail, into the international system.
We will continue the construction of high-speed train stations that we started with the BOT model.
We will complete the Kars-Tbilisi-Baku, Ankara-Sivas and Sivas-Erzincan railway projects.
We will electrify and signalize 80 percent of the railway network and continue to renew our railway network.
We will modernize the priority lines and make them double-tracked, and increase freight and passenger transportation on these lines.
We will continue to rapidly invest in rail systems, especially in Istanbul.
We will complete the Tandoğan-Keçiören, AKM-Gar-Kızılay, Levent-Hisarüstü, Üsküdar-Ümraniye-Dudullu, Kartal-Kaynarca, Kabataş-Mecidiyeköy-Mahmutbey, Bakırköy-Kirazlı, Kaynarca-Sabiha Gökçen, Marmaray Rail System Projects in Ankara, Antalya airport-expo projects in Istanbul.
We will develop our national railway industry and manufacture our own railway vehicles, including high-speed trains.
We will launch our first national high-speed train with the project for which we are currently preparing the tender.
With the Başkentray project, we are integrating suburban, metro and HSR lines in Ankara, the center of HSR operations.
We will start operating the Cumaovası-Tepeköy section of Egeray-İZBAN, which we have realized in cooperation with Izmir Metropolitan Municipality.
In Gaziantep, we will realize the Gaziray project with Gaziantep Municipality.
In the airline sector, we will support the growth of the sector above the world average and the transformation of Istanbul into an important transit center of the world by implementing the Istanbul New Airport.
We will create an "Air Transportation Network" to reach an airport every 100 km.
We will complete the Diyarbakır Airport Terminal Building and Alterations Project, one of our important projects.
We will start building a national regional aircraft.
We will complete the production of our domestic satellite (Türksat 6A) at our Satellite Systems Integration and Test Center.
We will launch Turksat 4B.
We will start the construction of the Turksat 5A satellite.
We will establish the Turkish Space Agency to carry out activities in the field of aviation and space in our country, to follow and use new technologies and to ensure coordination in projects.
In the maritime sector, we aim to transform Turkey into a transit port country integrated with global maritime transportation, to renew the Turkish maritime trade fleet and gain a larger share of the world maritime trade volume, which has reached 10 billion tons, and to make our ship and yacht building industry more competitive by equipping it with innovative technologies.
We will create new models that support ship management to reduce the freight deficit by using the Turkish-owned fleet in Turkey's foreign trade.
It will improve maritime education and increase the employment of Turkish seafarers in Turkish and world fleets,
We will increase the boat mooring capacity needed in marine tourism.
In order to ensure that our country becomes a transit port base in the region, we will ensure the establishment of large-scale ports on our coasts, and in this context, we will establish 3 large ports in 3 major seas.
By building at least 2 RO-RO terminals on the North-South axis in the Marmara Sea, it will reduce the traffic load on the Gulf and Bosphorus bridges,
We will transform the port of Istanbul into the main passenger exchange port for cruise ships.
We will take measures to encourage the diversification of cruise ship calls to our other ports.
We will revise the Coastal Structures Master Plan.
We will create a Port Management Model and a management structure in line with this model.
We will put the Vessel Traffic Services system into service in Izmit, Izmir and Mersin ship service areas.
We will complete the Emergency Response Centers (ERC) in Mersin, Tekirdağ and Antalya, which will operate to coordinate national and international marine pollution response and clean-up efforts.
We will develop Ro-Ro and cabotage transportation.
We will expand smart transportation systems to make roads, vehicles and other infrastructure a set of systems that provide safer, more comfortable and faster service to our people.
In the coming period, we will implement our "Transformation Program from Transportation to Logistics", which is an important reform area.
With the program, we aim to increase the contribution of the logistics sector to the growth potential of our country and to rank Turkey among the top 15 countries in the "Logistics Performance Index".
Within the scope of the program, we will establish a "Logistics Coordination Board" to ensure coordination among all institutions working in the field of logistics.
We will prepare a logistics master plan for the first time in Turkey.
We will develop and implement modern management models in logistics centers.
We will prepare a holistic logistics legislation and put it into force.
We will create a logistics database by collecting statistics that will serve the public and private sectors.
We will expand electronic systems in transportation.
We will strengthen the rail connection of production areas to commercial exit points.
We will complete the restructuring of TCDD, a critical institution in logistics.
We will harmonize urban transportation with national logistics plans.
We will speed up customs procedures with neighboring countries and other countries with which we have foreign trade.
Using a public-private partnership model, we will increase the number of customs gates and improve their capacity and quality.
We will complete the single window system at customs.
We will complete the construction of the Filyos port and carry out the Çandarlı and Mersin container port construction projects.
We will rapidly complete priority rail and highway projects.
3.14. Trade
As AK Party, we see the establishment of an efficient and smoothly functioning commercial environment as critical for our country to gain a larger share of global prosperity and wealth.
In terms of economic growth, we attach great importance to supporting the breakthroughs we have made in foreign trade by establishing a vibrant domestic trade environment.
With this approach, we aim to make our country one of the world's important trade centers where customs services and trade are carried out in the easiest and safest way with quality-oriented, innovative approaches and practices in the second breakthrough period.
a. What We Did
We have made significant progress with the measures we have taken in both domestic trade and foreign trade during our governments.
With these developments, wholesale and retail trade services grew by an annual average of 5.3 percent in the 2002-2014 period.
While the share of wholesale and retail trade services in GDP was 12.1 percent in 2002, it became 12 percent in 2014.
The number of shopping malls, an important branch of organized retail trade, has increased rapidly especially since 2006 and reached 348 as of September 2015.
The transaction volume in e-commerce reached TL 41.8 billion at the end of 2014.
In 2002, our country exported to 240 countries with more than 65 thousand exporters, up from 34 thousand companies in 2002.
As of end-2014, Turkish retail companies had approximately 3,000 stores in 90 countries.
We revised the Turkish Commercial Code and the Turkish Code of Obligations to meet today's social and economic needs.
The Law on the Protection of Consumers, the Law on the Regulation of Electronic Commerce and the Law on the Regulation of Retail Trade entered into force.
Thanks to the effective and efficient practices we implemented, we shortened customs clearance times.
In 2002, only 3 percent of customs transactions were completed within the first 1 minute, while we increased this rate by 21 times to 63 percent.
With the authorized obliged person application, we have started a period in which we bring customs services to the feet of our citizens engaged in trade.
In this way, we achieved cost savings of up to 20 percent.
We have implemented practices that will increase the logistics efficiency of our country, which has one of the largest truck fleets in Europe.
Our transporters, who have become full members of the Common Transit System of the European Union, can now move freely in 32 countries at the cheapest cost and with a single declaration.
We have renovated 9 customs gates with the Public Private Partnership Model, we have laid the foundations of 3 customs gates and facilities with this model, and we are continuing to renovate 9 gates.
While speeding up customs procedures by utilizing the latest technological means, we have achieved an increase of up to 700 percent in the seizures of smuggled goods, especially drugs and fuel oil.
With the summary declaration application, we shortened the waiting times at customs by conducting risk analysis of the goods in advance by ensuring that the information on the goods and vehicles are transmitted to the Ministry of Customs and Trade electronically before they arrive in our country.
We became a party to the EU Common Transit Agreement.
We ensured that transactions between the EU and EFTA countries and our country can be carried out with a single declaration and a single guarantee.
We reduced waiting times and transportation costs at the border by introducing a fast-track line.
By implementing the authorized obliged status, we provide convenience in customs procedures for companies that meet the conditions.
We have substantially completed the Single Window System Project, which will allow public institutions and organizations to carry out their controls and request information and documents electronically from a single point.
b. What We Will Do
We will continue to facilitate trade and establish an environment of trust.
We will continue to regulate the market through market surveillance and supervision.
By developing branding and institutionalization capacity in trade services, we will enable enterprises to open up more, especially to the markets of emerging peripheral countries.
We will ensure the development of electronic commerce services to open entrepreneurs to foreign markets.
We will finalize legislative work to improve electronic commerce.
We will develop supply and sales activities that increase the competitiveness of the traditional wholesale and retail sector; we will support the use of modern business techniques, new service models and technology in this sector.
We will finalize the secondary regulations regarding the law on the regulation of retail trade.
We aim to increase the rate of completion of customs procedures within the first 1 minute to 70 percent in 2015.
Modernization of Turkey's existing land border gates in order to make customs procedures easier and faster and to contribute to reducing the logistics costs of companies,
construction of new customs facilities where needed
We will ensure the use of technological means and new methods to facilitate transactions.
In this context, we will speed up customs procedures with neighboring countries and other countries with which we have foreign trade.
We will complete the One-Stop Control and Common Gate Project with Georgia.
On the one hand, we are transferring all customs procedures to the electronic environment, and on the other hand, we are reducing costs by using public resources and personnel effectively by simplifying procedures.
Derecik and Üzümlü customs gates with Iraq until June 2015,
We will open the Aktepe customs gate by the end of 2015.
We will accelerate our efforts to open Gülyazı and Ovaköy customs gates.
Simplifying and accelerating customs procedures in the coming period
and we will continue to work on the prevention of smuggling, especially in infrastructure.
With the "Single Window System" in customs procedures, we will ensure that foreign trade transactions are completed from a single point.
We will increase competitiveness by speeding up border crossings through "One Stop Check" and "Common Customs Gate" projects with our neighbors.
With MERSİS (Central Registry System), one of the four most comprehensive databases of the public sector, we moved all establishment and amendment procedures of commercial enterprises and companies to the electronic environment.
In the coming period, we will include all economic units in our country in the system.
3.15. Tourism
As AK Party, we do not only focus on the number of tourists and income.
We are aware that an effective tourism policy will bring many benefits to the economy, as well as foreign policy and cultural exchange.
In addition to natural and historical values, we have a very rich historical heritage and a unique geographical location.
During our 13-year first breakthrough period, we implemented policies to utilize this potential of our country in a very good way and ensured that it is still among the world's leading countries in tourism.
As AK Party, in the coming period, we will continue to support the tourism sector in increasing employment within the framework of a sustainable tourism approach.
and being a leading sector in regional development,
in addition to "mass" tourism on a world scale
We will act with the vision of becoming one of the important attraction centers of individual tourism.
a. What We Did
In 2002, Turkey ranked 17th in the world in terms of the number of tourist arrivals, but in 2014, it rose to 6th place.
As of 2014, Turkey ranked 12th in tourism revenues.
We increased the ratio of the number of tourists visiting Turkey to the number of international tourists from 1.9 percent in 2002 to 3.5 percent in 2014.
With the importance we attached to tourism during our governments, the number of foreign visitors to our country in 2002 was 13.3 million people and tourism revenues amounted to 12.4 billion dollars, while the number of foreign visitors in 2014 was 36.8 million people and tourism revenues amounted to 34.3 billion dollars.
In 2014, we increased the number of beds certified by the Ministry of Culture and Tourism from 396 thousand in 2002 to 807 thousand.
At the investment stage, there is a capacity of 310 thousand beds.
With 497 thousand beds in municipally certified facilities, the total number of beds reached 1 million 614 thousand.
In 2014, the number of foreigners visiting Turkey increased by 5.5 percent compared to the previous year, rising from 34 million 910 thousand people to 36 million 837 thousand 900 people.
In 2002, there were 419 4 and 5 star hotels in Turkey with operating certificates, while this number reached 1,142 in 2014.
In 2002, the number of 4,344 travel agencies operating in the sector was realized as 7,950 in 2014.
We prepared and implemented the Turkey Tourism Strategy 2023 and Action Plan.
We introduced a certification system to ensure standardization in vocational training, joint evaluation by government and sectoral organizations, increase productivity and job quality, and determine the level of skills required for employment.
We have ensured that businesses certified by the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, whose primary function is accommodation, are considered exporters if they provide 1 million dollars or more in foreign currency from abroad.
We prepared the Regulation on Marine Tourism in order to increase the competitiveness of the marine tourism sector in the international arena and to improve its quality.
We ensured that a portion of the electricity consumed by investments or enterprises that have obtained a Tourism Investment Certificate or Tourism Management Certificate from the Ministry of Culture and Tourism will be covered from the budget.
We improved the allocation conditions for thermal and winter tourism investments.
We enacted the "Professional Law on Tourist Guiding".
We ensured that only Green Star certified facilities can benefit from energy support.
We established the Çanakkale Wars Gallipoli Historical Site Presidency.
We prepared the Eastern Black Sea Tourism Master Plan focusing on the development of highland tourism in the Eastern Black Sea Region.
Within the scope of the plan, we aim to create a new tour route by combining the existing road tracks behind the coast.
We established the transformation program for the development of health tourism in order to increase competitiveness by improving the quality of services in the fields of medical tourism, thermal tourism and advanced age-disability tourism.
With our new incentive package, we have ensured that tourism accommodation investments to be made in the Culture and Tourism Protection and Development Regions can benefit from the regional supports applied in the 5th region.
We provided tourism companies serving in the field of health tourism with the opportunity to benefit from market entry, overseas promotion, overseas unit, certification, consultancy, trade delegation and procurement delegation supports.
Our country's overseas promotion and marketing activities are carried out by 44 Cultural and Promotion Consultancies and Attachés in 39 countries.
In addition to the classical advertising channels carried out in 37 different languages in 87 countries within the scope of the promotion of our country abroad;
In 2014, for the first time, we ran a global, market-oriented, digital advertising campaign covering all social media channels.
Aiming to create a consistent, meaningful and attractive image of Turkey all over the world, we promote our country, which is home to more than 30 civilizations and distinguished from its competitors with its history, geography and all its cultural and tourism values, with the concept of "Turkey:Home" on a global scale.
b. What We Will Do
As AK Party, we will further increase the resources we allocate to tourism in the second breakthrough period and reach the targets envisaged in the Turkey Tourism Strategy.
In the coming period, we will prioritize and develop tourism types such as health and thermal tourism, winter tourism, golf tourism, marine tourism, eco-tourism and plateau tourism, congress and fair tourism in addition to sea, sand and sun tourism.
We will create more attractive and stronger alternative destinations and routes by integrating health, thermal, plateau, winter and mountain sports, culturally important places and settlements scattered all over our country, instead of addressing them individually.
We will base public investments on destination management-based planning to mobilize tourism potential.
We will develop new "Area Management" models that will reduce bureaucracy and facilitate the flow of capital in tourism centers.
We will support tourism development with sustainable environmental policies.
In order to minimize the negative impacts of tourism, we will work on issues such as pollution and beach erosion.
We will promote sustainable tourism and raise awareness of public, private and civil society organizations on eco-tourism, rural tourism and agro-tourism.
We will increase the number of accommodation facilities with Green Star Certification.
We will ensure competition in tourism by creating branded tourism regions instead of cheap products.
We will create quality livable environments by reconsidering the existing tourism regions within a sustainability perspective.
We envisage nine tourism development zones, seven thematic corridors, ten tourism cities and five ecotourism zones with our approach to develop Tourism Development Zones, Tourism Corridors, Tourism Cities and Ecotourism Zones.
Within the framework of our DOKAP Tourism Master Plan Implementations, we will emphasize the concept of "Green Journey" and we will continue green road works in the area covering eight provinces from Samsun to Artvin.
With the program, we will implement projects that include sufficient capacity of accommodation centers on highland tourism routes and connecting these points for different types of tourism by improving existing rural road tracks.
Within this framework, we aim to develop alternative tourism types on a national and regional scale.
Increasing the number of visitors and spending per visitor,
attracting high income groups to our country
We aim to create year-round demand and to ensure a balanced distribution of domestic and foreign demand across regions and products.
By preparing a Winter Tourism Master Plan, we will ensure that investments in winter tourism are planned and realized in a holistic manner.
We will also prepare a Winter Tourism Strategy Document for the Eastern Anatolia Region, which is highly competitive in terms of winter tourism.
We will conduct a study on demand forecasting by sub-regions for yacht tourism on the coasts, the required number and capacities of marinas, and site selection.
In the coming period, we will complete Demre, Aydıncık and İzmir Yeni Foça Marina and İzmir Turan Marina.
In foreign promotion, we will constantly monitor developments in markets and customer profiles and take measures to adapt quickly to changing conditions.
We will implement a global advertising campaign in which all elements of our country's historical, cultural and tourism values will be considered as a whole in terms of strengthening the image of our country.
We will establish an external organization for promotion in new markets or markets with increased demand.
We will transform tourism education into a structure that will serve the needs of the sector.
We will complete a sectoral labor force training survey in the field of tourism.
We will make maximum use of public-private cooperation in tourism infrastructure and superstructure investments.
We will take the necessary steps in the coming period to ensure that our country, which has become a global brand in health, becomes one of the leading countries in the world in the field of health tourism.
With our "Priority Transformation Program for the Development of Health Tourism", we aim to increase our competitiveness by improving the quality of services in the fields of medical tourism, thermal health tourism and advanced age-disability tourism, where Turkey is a rising market in the world.
In this framework, we aim to serve 1.5 million foreign tourists, 600 thousand of whom will be for treatment purposes, with a bed capacity of 100 thousand in thermal health tourism. In return for this service, we aim to generate 3 billion dollars in revenue.
In the field of medical tourism, 750,000 foreign patients will be treated, generating revenues of 5.6 billion dollars.
Thanks to these services, we aim for our country to be among the top 5 destinations in the world.
In advanced age tourism, our target is to serve 150 thousand foreign tourists and generate approximately 750 million dollars in revenue.
We will establish a Health Tourism Coordination Board, prepare and implement action plans based on target countries in health tourism.
We will strengthen our accreditation infrastructure for facilities and institutions that will provide services in this field.
We will simplify our incentive systems in this area and ensure that they work effectively.
We will regulate legislation on price differentiation for these services.
We will increase the equipment of health personnel, especially foreign languages.
We will increase the quota of foreign students in medical education.
We will improve and activate the scope of overseas promotion activities.
3.16. Construction, Technical Consultancy and Contracting
During the first breakthrough period, the AK Party not only paved the way for investments in new areas of the economy, but also created policies to further strengthen our traditional sectors, such as construction.
Our view of the construction sector is to bring our country to a position where it can export to the world by providing a strong sectoral infrastructure where robust, safe and aesthetic construction is produced.
With this approach, we aim to provide cheaper and safer housing for our citizens.
Our priority will continue to be the realization of giant investments with domestic production and the further strengthening of our companies by gaining experience on a global scale.
a. What We Did
We implemented the Construction Products Regulation, which aims to ensure that materials used in buildings are produced and applied safely and in accordance with standards.
We switched to a system of issuing authorization certificates to contractors.
In addition, we have determined the areas of responsibility and authority related to site supervision and introduced the obligation to employ certified craftsmen in construction and installation works.
Law No. 4708 on Building Inspection has been implemented in 81 provinces since 2011.
In order to improve the human and technical infrastructure in this field, we provided trainings for relevant institutions and individuals.
In order to utilize new technologies, we have introduced an obligation for buildings to obtain an energy identity certificate.
We aimed to increase energy efficiency in buildings and emphasize systems that can use renewable energy sources in the building stock.
We established the Construction Sector Committee.
We have prepared National Occupational Standards in different fields and levels and started certification activities to make these standards usable by the sector.
b. What We Will Do
In the second breakthrough period, we will ensure that the competitive environment in the domestic market is based on quality and high quality demand.
Increasing the quality of demand and prioritizing quality in construction investments,
We envision the public sector to be the driving force in the transformation needed by the sector.
We will ensure that local technical consultancy firms operate more effectively in all production processes of the construction sector and in areas such as public-private partnership projects and urban transformation.
In this way, we will contribute to the establishment of quality awareness on the one hand and the development of innovation on the other, and increase the competitiveness of the sector.
We will continue to support the overseas activities of technical consultancy firms.
In this context, we will increase the number of companies benefiting from office, advertising, promotion, marketing activities, participation in fairs, seminars/conferences, overseas training activities, market research, delegation programs and contract supports and the total amount of support for technical consultancy firms to strengthen and position them in international markets.
We will support activities that improve the quality of overseas contracting services and increase the export potential of construction materials.
We will provide additional support to the overseas contracting services sector in accessing financing.
In this context, in addition to the loans to be extended to public institutions in the relevant countries under the guarantee of the recipient governments for the financing of overseas contracting projects, we will expand the practice of extending loans to banks located abroad in order to take advantage of opportunities in the private sector.
We will make improvements to increase the flexibility of the building inspection system to adapt to legislative changes and technological developments.
We will also improve market surveillance and inspection systems and increase laboratory capacity.
We will raise the quality of labor in the construction sector,
We will improve occupational health and safety practices.
In this context, it will increase the rate of certified intermediate labor in the construction sector,
We will increase the number of authorized building contractors.
We will also develop an information infrastructure for effective supervision of the activities of construction site supervisors.
We will develop design and construction standards for the production of user-oriented, safe, environmentally friendly, energy efficient and architecturally aesthetic buildings.
We will prepare the legal infrastructure and determine the organizational structure and working procedures for the establishment of a Building Research Center that will guide and support the development of policy recommendations and standards on buildings, research and development of innovative and sustainable design, construction techniques, materials and equipment, and channeling the construction sector into the production process, including urban transformation.
We will ensure the establishment of certification infrastructures for sustainable construction and green buildings, and organize trainings and seminars to raise awareness and consciousness in this field.
In today's world, the main dynamic of economic development is the production of knowledge and the transformation of knowledge into added value.
We see that economic structures based on natural resources and traditional modes of production are not sustainable.
The world of the future will be built by countries that build a knowledge-based economy, which prepares the environment for people and the science and technology that exist with people, and for their commercialization.
As AK Party, we are aware that our country's transition from upper middle-income countries to high-income countries can only be possible through breakthroughs in science, technology and innovation.
The core of our development strategy is our people and enterprises that are better equipped, more innovative and entrepreneurial, producing knowledge and transforming it into high added value.
In the coming period, we will focus on high value-added areas that will provide more impetus to the development of our country.
To realize a transformation in the manufacturing industry based on innovative and high-tech sectors,
strengthen our entrepreneurial capacity,
We prioritize creating a qualified employment infrastructure for the transformation to a knowledge-based economy.
In the past period, we have attached great importance to the establishment of R&D infrastructures that will make a leap in the field of science, technology and innovation in our country and to the training of qualified researchers, and we have significantly increased the resources we spend on this field.
While many countries were unable to invest adequately in these areas amid the global crisis, the AK Party administration continued to invest in the future of our country and our potential growth with a long-term perspective.
In the second breakthrough period, we will utilize this infrastructure effectively and increase innovative and high value-added production in our country.
and we aim to take our development process to a new phase.
By supporting the private sector more in technological development,
to create an ecosystem based on innovation,
We will pay special attention to the commercialization and branding of research results.
By encouraging the widespread and effective use of information and communication technologies (ICT), we will support the formation of a sector in this field, increase the added value in the production of domestic ICT technologies and ensure greater use of ICT technologies in production.
Increasing firm skills by focusing on innovation,
We will increase the competitiveness of SMEs and increase their contribution to economic growth.
That advances in science and technology will help accelerate economic development and strengthen our human capital,
On the other hand, we believe that it will create an important leverage effect in the transition to an information society.
4.1. Science, Technology and Innovation
As AK Party, we believe that the economic and social development of our country depends on innovative production.
In our first breakthrough period, we endeavored to create the resource infrastructure for the transition to a knowledge-based and competitive economy.
In our second breakthrough period, further development of research capacity, R&D and innovation awareness and university-industry cooperation are among our prioritized development goals.
Science, technology and innovation will play a critical role in the economy of the new Turkey.
We see that breakthroughs in these areas will bring competitive advantage to our country and ensure sustainable socio-economic development.
In order to reach our goal of becoming one of the major economies, we plan to rapidly reach a position that exports high value-added products by producing technology.
To this end, we will create an effectively functioning R&D and innovation ecosystem that produces knowledge and transforms it into commercial value by using it in a qualified manner.
a. What We Did
As AK Party, we have initiated a breakthrough in science, technology and innovation in our country that has attracted the attention of the world.
We have included the development of our research capacity, R&D and innovation awareness and university-industry cooperation among the prioritized development goals of our country.
At a time when our national income was rising rapidly, we almost doubled the share of R&D expenditures in GDP, from 0.53 percent to 0.95 percent between 2002 and 2013.
In 2023, we aim to increase the share of R&D expenditures in national income to three percent.
The share of the private sector in total R&D expenditures increased from 28 percent in 2002 to 47 percent in 2013.
From TL 1.8 billion in 2002, we increased R&D expenditure by nearly 8 times in nominal terms to TL 14.8 billion in 2013.
In 2013, we increased the number of full-time equivalent (FTE) R&D personnel from 28,964 in 2002 to 112,969, and the number of private sector (FTE) R&D personnel from 5,918 in the same period to 58,391.
Within public investment programs, we increased the resources allocated to R&D and innovation from TL 114 million in 2002 to TL 1.86 billion in 2015.
In 2004, we established the Turkish Research Area (TARAL) and increased the resources allocated to R&D and innovation activities.
With Law No. 5746 on Supporting Research and Development Activities enacted in 2008, we provided comprehensive incentives to private sector R&D centers.
We supported 174 thematic and advanced research centers and 94 central research laboratories with a total cost of 4.1 billion TL in 2015 prices and a total expenditure of 3.1 billion TL.
We have completed 113 thematic and advanced research centers and 45 central research laboratories.
Thus, we ensured capacity building in priority areas and the establishment of research infrastructures on a global scale.
With the 2014 Law on Supporting Research Infrastructures, we took another important step towards improving cooperation between universities and the private sector, and envisaged that the research infrastructures we established would operate and be managed on a performance basis, that research results would be commercialized, and that qualified researchers would be employed more flexibly in these centers.
We aimed to accelerate innovative inventions by further supporting these accredited centers with guided projects.
We have largely completed the legal and institutional structure of the intellectual property system.
We have taken the necessary measures to ensure effective enforcement of criminal and civil sanctions in the intellectual property system.
In the 2002-2014 period, trademark applications increased from 36,429 to 111,544, design applications from 20,302 to 42,844, utility model applications from 932 to 3,568 and patent applications from 1,874 to 12,375.
The share of domestic patent applications in total patent applications increased from 22 percent in 2002 to 39.3 percent in 2014.
In order to ensure that more users benefit from the intellectual property system, we implement a wide range of support tools, including marketing and promotion support in foreign markets.
We established the Intellectual and Industrial Property Rights Coordination Board to formulate strategies for intellectual property rights and to ensure effective implementation by improving inter-institutional coordination and cooperation.
We prepared the National Intellectual Property Strategy and Action Plan.
We established the Turkish Design Advisory Council to work on determining design strategies and policies, creating designs with high added value, and increasing the competitiveness of Turkish designs in the international arena.
We implemented the Design Strategy Document and Action Plan (2014-2016).
b. What We Will Do
Strengthen coordination among institutions providing support to increase R&D and innovation activities in the coming period
and increase the effectiveness of support.
Law No. 6550 on Supporting Research Infrastructures will be finalized and implemented.
With the implementation of this Law, we will provide significant support for the commercialization of research as a result of our research infrastructures working much more closely with the private sector.
We will support and activate research programs to develop domestic products and technologies in sectors with high external dependency.
We will strengthen collaborations between universities, industry and public institutions to support the transformation of R&D activities into products and services;
We will improve the quantity and quality of the research workforce, especially those with PhD degrees, and ensure that more researchers are employed in the private sector.
We will also encourage the training of researchers in basic and social sciences and increase the quality and quantity of research activities in these fields.
We will increase our support and contributions to R&D and design activities.
We will support design centers like R&D centers, and allow R&D and design personnel to work more flexibly.
We will also support order-based R&D and design activities of SMEs.
We will increase the number of science centers.
We have started to work on the production of scientific materials exhibited in Science Centers with domestic facilities, and we have launched a call for this in TÜBİTAK.
For the first time, we initiated science diplomacy activities during our government.
In the coming period, we will appoint Science Counsellors and Attachés to 10 leading science centers abroad.
We will establish a "Technology Transfer Platform" that will publish on issues related to industrial property and its management.
In this way, we will make information about the subjects and technologies that are needed or of interest to be licensed or transferred available for common use.
We will build adequate human and institutional capacity in the public sector, particularly in the judiciary, customs and law enforcement services.
We will improve the service capacity of technology transfer and innovation centers to enable businesses to benefit more effectively from the intellectual property rights system and supports.
We will establish a Patent Exchange.
We will raise public awareness of the intellectual property rights system through promotional and educational activities to inform the public at all levels.
We will strengthen the information and data infrastructure to identify, monitor and evaluate the contribution of products and works subject to intellectual property rights to the national economy.
We will create a roadmap for the protection of genetic resources, traditional knowledge and traditional cultural and folkloric expressions in our country.
Our main goals with our "Priority Transformation Program for Commercialization in Priority Technology Areas" are to increase the number of technological products and brands,
strengthen research and innovation centers,
increase the number of qualified people
and to develop innovative entrepreneurship.
In this context, we will support technological product investments and prototype development processes in priority sectors.
We will support technological product investments and clustering activities in priority sectors such as energy, health, aviation, space, automotive, rail systems, IT and defense sectors.
We will create Public-University-Industry cooperation platforms in virtual and real environments.
We will improve the accredited testing infrastructure in our country.
We will make research centers more available to the private sector.
We will establish a credit guarantee mechanism that can provide support for the commercialization projects of innovative entrepreneurs.
We will develop mechanisms such as networks and mentoring services between entrepreneurs and investors, especially SMEs, at central and local levels.
To support entrepreneurs, we will establish an early-stage fund, where the lack of financing is felt the most.
We will ensure that the costs of TSE and patent certificates of Small and Medium Enterprises are covered by the state.
To support entrepreneurs in the field of R&D, we will establish an early-stage fund where the lack of financing is felt the most.
We will establish incubation centers and accelerators to support innovative entrepreneurship in priority sectors.
We will make regulations to support commercialization of intellectual and industrial rights.
In addition to this program, we aim to develop domestic technology and production by using the leverage power of public procurement with our "Technology Development and Domestic Production Priority Transformation Program through Public Procurement".
We will transform our public procurement, which exceeds 100 billion TL every year, into an effective policy tool that will contribute to R&D and innovation activities and encourage innovation, localization, technology transfer and innovative entrepreneurship.
In this context, we will increase the share of domestic companies in medium-high and high technology sectors in public procurement.
We will attract more international direct investment.
We will increase R&D expenditures.
We will increase awareness and capacity in public institutions and organizations.
Taking into account our international obligations, we will make the necessary arrangements in the Public Procurement Law and other relevant legislation to implement the public procurement guaranteed procurement model for high-tech products.
We will develop and implement product-based domestic procurement models for high-tech products based on public procurement guarantees.
We will establish coordination and monitoring mechanisms for the effectiveness of implementation.
Turkey's new economic structure based on science and technology will bring relations with the outside world to a different level.
Our main goal is to transform our country into a center of attraction for the qualified brains of large geographies, as it has been in the past, and to accelerate the reverse brain drain we have started while preventing brain drain in the struggle to move our position in the world to higher points.
In this context, we will make our country a center of attraction for domestic and foreign qualified manpower, especially our citizens abroad, with our "Attraction Center Priority Transformation Program for Qualified Manpower".
Within the scope of the program; we will identify the areas where qualified manpower from abroad is needed in the labor market, universities and public and private R&D centers.
We will increase activities to promote the business, investment, labor, education and cultural environment abroad and assign science and technology consultants abroad.
We will increase efforts to increase participation in EU Framework Programs and develop programs similar to EU Framework Programs with countries with which Turkey has strong economic, historical and cultural ties.
In priority technology areas, we will develop cooperation between research centers and higher education institutions with their counterparts abroad.
We will establish a communication network to keep the relations of our postgraduate educated citizens abroad with our country alive, and we will create a database and catalog for Turkish researchers abroad.
We will expand promotions for those who will invest in our country and support new company formations and entrepreneurship activities in the field of R&D infrastructure.
We will increase the number of foreign students by encouraging investments to increase the number of foreign students in universities.
We will accelerate the work permit process for skilled labor and develop a special Turquoise Card System for this purpose.
We will streamline and improve the processes for the residence and work permits of qualified foreign workers and their families.
We will facilitate the employment of contracted foreign experts in research projects.
We will diversify the mechanisms for scientists and research scholars to visit our country for research, teaching and conferences.
We will develop exchange, mobility or internship programs for university students abroad and highly qualified manpower that stands out in the fields of science, arts and culture.
We will expand R&D support to enable our citizens who have completed graduate studies abroad to return to Turkey.
We will implement all these actions with an understanding that does not substitute the employment of our people at home, but rather expands employment opportunities.
4.2. Industrial Policies
As AK Party, we act with the vision of becoming a country that has companies that produce high value-added goods based on R&D, innovation and qualified labor force within an outward-oriented structure in industry, and that has become the production center of Eurasia in medium and high technology products.
The global crisis has once again demonstrated the resilience of countries with strong industries.
Countries that invest in productive areas, especially in industry, can show the necessary flexibility in difficult times and overcome crises with new forms of production.
Countries where industry is developed are also countries with a well-equipped workforce and a high level of work discipline.
As a country with a rising industry, the AK Party will support a strong industrial and production culture in the future.
Recognizing that our country needs to take steps to transform the manufacturing industry in order to increase its international competitiveness and share in world exports, we attach importance to focusing on high-tech sectors.
Our Party sees innovation, firm skills, cross-sectoral integration and foreign market diversification as the main focal points for the transformation of the manufacturing industry.
In this context, we envisage transforming our manufacturing industry into a structure that produces higher added value, utilizes high technology, responds to the demands of the commercial world of the future, and gains sustainable global competitiveness.
a. What We Did
In order to establish a healthy development infrastructure, we paid special attention to developing policies and making investments for the development of the manufacturing industry along with macroeconomic stability.
We prepared and implemented the Turkish Industrial Strategy Document (2011-2014). We are preparing the new Strategy Document and Action Plan for the 2015-2018 period.
In the 2002-2014 period, we ensured an average annual growth rate of 5.5 percent in the value added of the manufacturing industry.
In the same period, we increased manufacturing industry exports from 33.7 billion dollars to 147.1 billion dollars.
We increased country diversification in exports.
While the share of EU countries in manufacturing exports decreased, the shares of the Middle East, Africa, CIS and other Asian countries increased.
Between 2002 and 2014, we increased the share of medium technology sectors in exports from 47.1 percent to 59.9 percent.
As of 2013, our iron and steel sector ranked 2nd in the EU and 8th in the world with 17.3 million tons of exports.
As of 2013, our garment sector ranked 3rd in the EU and 6th in the world with exports of 15.4 billion dollars, and our textile sector ranked 3rd in the EU and 6th in the world with exports of 12.1 billion dollars. As of 2014, our automotive sector ranked 6th in the EU and 17th in the world with a production of 1 million 170 thousand.
We increased Turkey's share in global motor vehicle production from 0.57 percent in 2002 to 1.17 percent in 2014.
As of 2014, our automotive industry ranked second in light commercial vehicle production and first in bus production in the European Union.
We raised the machinery manufacturing industry from 34th place in the world with exports of 2.1 billion dollars in 2002 to 26th place in the world with exports of 13.6 billion dollars in 2014.
As of 2014, we ranked the white goods industry 4th in the EU and 6th in the world with exports of 4.1 billion dollars.
As of 2014, we ranked the cement sector 1st in the EU and 4th in the world with 71.2 million tons of production.
In the automotive industry, we have largely completed global integration in production and marketing.
We have realized significant infrastructure changes that will affect the operations and future investments of the Turkish pharmaceutical industry.
We created a new incentive system,
we have identified priority investment areas in pharmaceuticals
and diversified R&D supports.
In 2014, we increased our defense and aerospace exports from US$ 331 million in 2003 to US$ 1.6 billion annually.
In the defense industry, we increased the localization rate, which was around 24 percent when we came to power, to over 55 percent.
While building a more secure infrastructure for defense,
On the other hand, we have taken the defense industry to an important stage for our economy in general.
In addition to military purposes, we looked at the defense industry as an opportunity to develop the production and R&D infrastructure of our domestic industry.
Our defense industry companies export armored vehicles, patrol ships, air defense systems, rockets, simulators, military communication and command and control systems, and enter and export to international markets.
With the Kirpi vehicles we produce in the field of defense industry, we ensure the safe deployment of our military personnel in full equipment.
We manufacture products that require high technology such as Göktürk-2, National Cruise Missile and Penetrating Bombs (NEB).
The MİLGEM Corvette, 65 percent of which we produced with national resources, has assumed the role of a cornerstone in the development of the Turkish shipbuilding industry and in achieving national design and construction capability in all surface ships.
We strengthened our presence at sea with the Coast Guard Search and Rescue Ships, which we ensured to be produced by Turkish shipyards.
b. What We Will Do
In the upcoming period, we will improve the capacity of recipient institutions to manage the public procurement process in a way that will develop the domestic industry in large-scale and investment public procurements.
We will focus on building this capacity and disseminating good practices.
In this framework, we will use our Urban Transformation Program to encourage the manufacturing industry to innovate in areas related to urbanization (such as zero-emission buildings, signaling, concept vehicles).
and with the perspective of ensuring competitiveness in global markets.
We will increase the rate of domestic procurement of public rail transportation system needs.
We will strengthen sectoral and cross-sectoral integration to increase our global competitiveness.
In this context, the textile, leather, furniture sectors with the agricultural sector,
Machinery, medical devices and electronics sectors with the services sector,
We will strengthen the integration of the machinery, medical device and automotive sectors with the electronics sector.
We will prioritize the production of intermediate goods and industrial raw materials that require high investment in order to increase the rate of domestic supply of industrial inputs.
In this context, we will prepare qualified and large-scale space for these facilities, establish mechanisms to encourage domestic and foreign investments, and ensure that these investments benefit from public support with priority.
We are reducing the input cost of industrialists by reducing the KKDF rate from 6 percent to zero percent in the forward imports of investment goods and intermediate goods.
We will give more support to high-tech investments.
We have included investments in the advanced technology class within the scope of priority investments and will benefit from the 5th region supports.
We will provide financing for projects for R&D-based industrial investments.
TUBITAK will support projects to be implemented by the private sector in the manufacturing industry, especially in the energy, transportation and health sectors, through the Development Bank of Turkey, and we will provide up to 50 percent financing with favorable conditions.
We will also restructure the Development Bank in a way that will provide more support to qualified projects that our economy needs.
We will increase Turkey's share of global clinical research investments and the number of clinical trials conducted by 25 percent annually.
Our main objectives are to financially sustain the quality we have achieved in health and to increase domestic production in the field of pharmaceuticals and medical devices.
Within this framework, an important reform area is the "Structural Transformation Program in Health Industries".
Under the program, we will transition to a production structure that can produce high value-added products in pharmaceuticals and medical devices, offer products and services to global markets, and meet a larger share of the domestic need for pharmaceuticals and medical devices.
The goal of our program is to meet 60 percent of domestic pharmaceutical needs by value through domestic production.
In the long term, we aim to increase our effectiveness in global value chains through the development of research infrastructure and the discovery of new products.
Under the program, we will establish a Health Industries Steering Committee and establish the "Turkish Health Institutes Presidency" to support domestic R&D and production.
We will take measures to encourage and improve domestic production in pharmaceutical and medical device purchases.
We will prioritize locally produced medicines and medical devices in reimbursement and pricing policies and licensing processes.
We will develop our research infrastructures in the fields of biotechnological pharmaceuticals, biomaterials and biomedical equipment.
We will realize domestic production of plasma products and vaccines.
We will develop financial support mechanisms for SMEs that will produce in the health industry.
We will increase university-industry cooperation in these areas and encourage company clusters.
We will support products produced as a result of R&D activities planned according to the needs of our country in terms of price and reimbursement practices.
Domestic development of the entire supply chain in the automotive sector, including design, R&D, production and sales-marketing processes,
increasing added value,
We will ensure the development of new environmentally sensitive technologies.
In the automotive sector, we will encourage branding with original design vehicles to meet the needs of global markets and accelerate the production of domestic branded automobiles.
It will consider the application possibilities of dual-purpose technologies (defense/civilian) in the electronics sector;
We will increase the integration of the sector with other sectors, especially transportation, automotive and machinery.
We will attach importance to the development and production of base station and control unit products during the transition to new generation radio technology in the field of electronic communications.
We will support the electronics sector to take part as a producer in the dissemination of innovative solutions supported by information and communication technologies.
We will encourage pre-competitive R&D in the electronics sector and develop laboratory capacity and research infrastructure in lighting and display technologies.
We will ensure the production of domestic cell phones.
In this context, TÜBİTAK has launched a call for support for organizations that will produce smartphones and their components, and eight companies have started working on this issue.
We will ensure sustainable and secure input supply in the basic metal industry.
In this context, we will ensure product diversification by increasing the weight of high value-added products such as stainless steel, qualified steel, structural steel and seamless pipes, which are imported in the production of the iron and steel sector.
We will continue to support domestic R&D and production in the defense industry.
On the one hand, we will increase the competence of our country in the defense industry, and on the other hand, we will integrate the defense industry with other industrial fields.
We will also support the restructuring of our labor-intensive traditional sectors to increase their added value.
In the defence industry, in addition to MİLGEM, we are also implementing new type patrol boats, rapid response boats, amphibious ships, search and rescue ships, fast amphibious ships, and modernization projects for Perry-class frigates.
HÜRKUŞ-A, our indigenous basic trainer aircraft, was designed by Turkish engineers.
We will build 15 airplanes by 2019.
In addition, we have ongoing projects for Anka, Atak Helicopter, target aircraft systems, tactical unmanned aerial vehicles, mini unmanned aerial vehicles, modernization of C-130 and F-16 aircraft, and various rocket and air systems.
We are realizing the satellite system (Göktürk-3) project, which enables Turkey to take images from space day and night and in all weather conditions.
Our national anti-tank, national missile, national torpedo, national tank ALTAY, new type submarine, landing ship, hospital ship, aircraft and helicopter projects are ongoing.
With the realization of these projects in the defense industry, we will not only meet our national needs, but also become an important global actor in defense industry exports.
4.3. Entrepreneurship and SMEs
Strong entrepreneurs lead to strong firms and strong firms lead to a strong economic structure.
Our Party's growth strategy is based on entrepreneurship and a dynamic structure led by the private sector.
Our main policy is to strengthen the entrepreneurship culture in the favorable environment created by the public sector and to create an entrepreneur-friendly ecosystem.
The AK Party stands for freedom of enterprise and free entrepreneurship and is aware that societies with strong entrepreneurs will be competitive, produce and export goods and services based on technology and with high added value.
We believe that having a strong entrepreneurial structure will make a significant contribution to our goal of becoming a high-income country.
One of our main objectives is to increase the competitiveness of our SMEs so that they contribute more to economic growth.
As AK Party, we see supporting fast-growing or high-growth potential enterprises and innovative SMEs as an important requirement for stable economic growth and social development.
a. What We Did
During the first breakthrough period, as AK Party, we took important steps to develop entrepreneurship and SMEs.
For the first time, we prepared and put into effect the SME Strategy and Action Plan.
By making regulations on SMEs, we implemented important innovations from the definition of SMEs to SME support systems.
Considering the importance of appropriate investment location and clustering for investors, we have completed 87 of the 157 OIZ projects whose infrastructure has been completed so far.
While providing a favorable investment climate in these areas, we have also taken environmental measures.
As of today, 685 thousand people are employed in 87 OIZs completed in the last 13 years.
While 1.7 billion TL of credit support was provided to 70 OIZs until 2002, we have provided 1.5 billion TL of credit to 87 OIZs in the last 13 years.
We provided 1.5 million jobs in OIZs.
From 2011 to 2015, we allocated 2,101 empty parcels to investors in OIZs free of charge.
We extended the period for the free allocation of parcels in OIZs to investors until 2017.
We opened 18 Vocational High Schools in OIZs within the framework of the protocol between MoNE and MoSTB in order to train qualified personnel needed by the labor market.
We increased the number of technology development zones (TDZs) from 22 to 61.
The number of enterprises operating in TDZs also increased from 604 to 2,947.
These enterprises employ 30 thousand people and export 1.7 billion dollars.
We paved the way for SMEs in the service and trade sectors to benefit from KOSGEB supports.
Thus, we have increased KOSGEB's target audience 8 times.
The number of enterprises registered in the KOSGEB database, which was 4 thousand in 2002, has exceeded 805 thousand today.
We have increased the number of people benefiting from entrepreneurship trainings in our country from 6 thousand to 255 thousand in the last five years.
While 14.5 million TL support was provided to SMEs through KOSGEB in the 1991-2003 period, we have provided approximately 2.9 billion TL support since 2003, an increase of nearly 200 times.
We have extended significant amounts of loans with favorable conditions to artisans and craftsmen through Halk Bank.
Within the scope of this practice, while the loan interest rates charged to craftsmen were 47 percent in 2002, they gradually decreased from 2003 onwards, reaching 4-5 percent after 2011, the lowest loan interest rates in the history of the Republic.
In 2002, the loan balance was TL 153 million, and by the end of 2014 it was TL 12.5 billion.
During the AK Party period, we enacted the Law on Tradesmen and Craftsmen Professional Organizations.
We created an information system for our tradesmen and artisans and prepared a strategy document for the first time in the history of the Republic and put it into practice.
We made TOKİ facilities available for the construction of small industrial estates for craftsmen and artisans.
We implemented projects to improve modern public transportation and the physical spaces where tradesmen and artisans operate.
We have made efforts to make it easier for tradesmen and craftsmen to benefit from EU programs.
We supported efforts to keep the Ahi culture alive.
We implemented the Tradesmen and Craftsmen Support System (ESDES) project.
We supported SMEs and entrepreneurs with new ideas and inventions based on science and technology up to 1 million liras.
To date, we have provided 272.2 million TL support to 2,691 enterprises.
We provide up to 100 thousand TL of support to prospective entrepreneurs to start their own businesses, with or without repayment.
To date, we have provided 354.3 million TL support to 21,252 entrepreneurs.
With the San-Tez Program, which is a support mechanism that aims to help SMEs acquire the habit of solving their problems in cooperation by using the know-how produced at universities, we have so far allocated 220 million TL to 992 projects.
b. What We Will Do
Entrepreneurship is one of the foundations of the new Turkish economy.
An innovative, high value-added production structure that ranks high in the global value chain will be realized through our entrepreneurs.
We see entrepreneurship as a result of the social environment and the policies pursued, rather than an individual initiative and attitude.
In this framework, we are building the entrepreneurship space in a broad perspective, from freedom of opinion to good regulations.
We are establishing the Informatics Valley, which will take Turkey to the next level in the field of innovation.
With the establishment of OIZs in Artvin and Hakkari, we will leave no province in Turkey without an OIZ.
The 2015 Investment Program includes a total of 89 OIZ projects, 11 of which are new projects.
Our 2023 target is 70 new OIZs and 1 million additional jobs.
We continue our efforts to increase innovative financing opportunities such as venture capital and individual participation capital and technological entrepreneurship support models.
In order to increase SMEs' access to finance, we will make arrangements to remove obstacles to the use of movables as collateral.
It will support SMEs in their efforts to list on the stock exchange;
Credit Guarantee Fund will increase the number of SMEs that receive guarantees
and Venture Capital Funds.
With the Council of Ministers Decree, we expanded the scope of those who can benefit from the Treasury-backed guarantee system and added Manufacturing SMEs and Women Entrepreneurs to the scope.
We are increasing the guarantee limit from 1.5 million TL for each SME and 2 million TL for each risk group to 2.5 million TL for investment loans of SMEs operating in the manufacturing sector and 3 million TL for manufacturing SMEs in each risk group.
In addition, we are increasing the maximum maturity from 8 years for other SMEs to 10 years for manufacturing SMEs and the guarantee rate from 75 percent for other SMEs to 80 percent for manufacturing SMEs.
While we continue to provide low-interest loans to our tradesmen, we will also provide interest-free loan support up to 30 thousand TL.
We will not collect the tax calculated on the annual earnings of our tradesmen taxed in simple procedure up to 8 thousand liras.
We will establish a program to support incubators and accelerators established directly by the private sector or in private-public partnerships to develop entrepreneurship in priority sectors.
We will increase the number and effectiveness of centers such as business development, incubation and accelerators.
In this context, we are working on the establishment of an upper fund for early-stage entrepreneurship, where the lack of financing is felt the most.
We will develop new support mechanisms to remove obstacles to women's entrepreneurship and improve the role of women in economic life.
We will provide personnel support to SMEs engaged in R&D for the commercialization of technological products.
We will support companies' activities related to industrial design, production preparation, production process, market launch and after-sales services.
In the coming period, we aim to achieve high and stable growth without the problem of current account deficit by increasing competitiveness with a productivity-oriented approach.
With the Priority Transformation Program for Increasing Productivity in Production, we aim to improve the perception of productivity, improve production processes, increase added value and thus contribute to this goal.
In this framework, we aim to raise the contribution of Total Factor Productivity (TFP) to growth in the industrial sector to above 20 percent by the end of the period.
With the program, we will ensure the transfer of experience by bringing businesses together with good examples and increase the level of interaction between businesses.
We will ensure that our SMEs that make systematic improvements in the field of productivity benefit from state supports with priority and advantages.
We will give importance to the institutionalization of SMEs.
To this end, we will establish support programs and review existing support.
We will strengthen the technological equipment and technology development capacity of industrial zones.
We will expand industrial automation applications in the manufacturing industry.
We will identify the resource efficiency potential in the manufacturing industry,
We will expand resource efficient production practices.
We will support product design, diversification and branding for small-scale enterprises and organize training activities on these issues.
We will facilitate SMEs' access to financing sources.
We will carry out activities to improve the brand and image of Turkish goods.
We will support the acquisition of foreign companies and brands, especially those operating in high-tech sectors, in order to gain direct access to distribution channels in foreign markets.
4.4. Transformation to Information Society
As a country that has experienced the multifaceted consequences of the delayed adaptation to industrialization in the world in our history, one of our main goals is to closely follow the post-industrial information society processes in the 21st century and to take part in these processes.
By knowledge society, we understand a social environment with well-equipped people and qualified organizations that produce knowledge in every field, manage with knowledge, and use knowledge as a problem-solving tool.
During the first breakthrough period of the AK Party, we put forward that the transformation into an information society would carry Turkey to the ranks of developed countries, and we paved the way for a serious transformation of mentality in this field.
In the second breakthrough period, our main objective is to further accelerate our transformation into an information society.
By utilizing information and communication technologies as an effective tool, we aim to transform into a knowledge-based economy and develop qualified employment.
a. What We Did
One of the areas we have focused on throughout the AK Party governments has been the information society.
We see this area as of vital importance in order to put our country in an advantageous position against other competitors in an increasingly competitive environment in the international arena.
As part of the efforts to transition to an information society, we have implemented the e-Transformation Turkey Project since 2003 and the Information Society Strategy and Action Plan covering the period 2006-2010.
With the e-Transformation Turkey Project, we prioritized public ICT investments and rapidly increased investments in this area.
Our governments have revolutionized the electronic transformation of public services.
We opened the electronic communications sector to competition in 2004.
After the sector was opened to competition, we made secondary legislation in line with EU regulations.
We also authorized new operators in the sector.
Facilitating the entry of new businesses into the market,
Ensuring effective use of resources,
Reducing costs,
We have determined the procedures and principles regarding co-location and facility sharing for the protection of the environment and public health.
We carried out infrastructure installation works in rural settlements without fixed and mobile communication infrastructure.
In 2009, we authorized operators to provide 3G technology services in Turkey and started to offer 3G services nationwide.
We rapidly expanded the IT sector and enabled public services to be provided to citizens over the internet through e-Government applications.
The number of broadband subscribers, which was almost non-existent in 2003, has exceeded 41 million today thanks to the competitive environment created as a result of the liberalization in the field of electronic communications.
We implemented 3rd generation mobile phone licenses, regulatory arrangements and universal service practices for mobile coverage.
As of June 2015, we reached 72.1 million subscribers in mobile communications, 61 million of which were 3G subscribers.
77 million numbers were ported with the Mobile Number Portability scheme that entered into force in 2008.
In 2009, we started offering fiber internet access service.
As of June 2015, the number of fiber internet subscribers exceeded 1.5 million.
While the rate of individuals using the Internet was 17.6 percent in 2005, this rate increased to 55.9 percent in 2015.
While 87.8 percent of enterprises with 10 or more employees used computers in 2005, this rate increased to 95.2 percent in 2015.
Similarly, the internet usage rate of enterprises with 10 or more employees increased from 80.4 percent in 2005 to 92.5 percent in 2015.
We launched the FATIH Project.
In this context, interactive whiteboards will be installed in approximately 432 thousand classrooms by the end of 2015.
The process of distributing tablets to our students is ongoing.
In 2005, we enacted the Universal Service Law.
In this context, we are working to prevent the digital divide and provide basic services to all citizens.
In 2008, we enacted the Electronic Communications Law, which sets the regulatory framework for the electronic communications sector.
The Law on the Regulation of Electronic Commerce entered into force.
We launched the electronic signature application, which ensures the validity, integrity, accessibility and non-repudiation of business and transactions carried out electronically.
With the 2008 Law on Supporting R&D Activities, we provided support in areas including the information technologies sector.
As of April 2015, 58 percent of the 3,233 companies operating in Technology Development Zones (TDZs) were in the software and IT sector.
TDZs are home to more than a third of the IT firms that develop software.
The information technologies market grew from USD 1.8 billion in 2002 to USD 10.4 billion in 2014.
We increased the number of Mobile Base Stations to be used in emergencies from 25 to 40 across the country.
We set service quality standards for fixed, mobile and internet services and call centers in the electronic communications sector.
We opened call centers in 50 provinces and provided job opportunities for 80 thousand young people.
Thanks to these centers, live information can be provided to our citizens via telephone at their location without any travel.
b. What We Will Do
As AK Party, we will accelerate our steps towards becoming an information society in the coming period.
We will implement the new Information Society Strategy and Action Plan covering the 2015-2018 period, which has an important place in the transformation of our country into an information society and which we have prepared with a focus on growth and employment.
Within the framework of this Strategy and Action Plan, we will further emphasize investments in the area of transformation into an information society.
In the coming period, we will largely complete the e-transformation of the public sector (e-Government).
4.5 G mobile electronic communication services will be made widespread.
We will encourage R&D activities and domestic production of equipment for the 4.5G mobile electronic communication infrastructure.
We will initiate R&D studies on 5G mobile electronic communication infrastructure.
In the electronic communications sector, we will review the regulatory framework and adopt a regional-based regulatory approach.
We will prepare a national broadband strategy.
We will ensure efficiency in the use of spectrum resources.
We will support the establishment of internet exchange points in our country.
We will continue to establish infrastructure in settlements without fixed and mobile communication infrastructure.
We will create a fiber access support program.
We will attach importance to increasing fiber infrastructure investments and ensure the widespread use of fast and high quality broadband access.
In 2018, we aim to reach 4 million fiber subscribers.
The tender process for the tablet computers to be purchased under the FATIH Project will be designed to localize critical technologies,
We will ensure that the project as a whole enables the growth of the software, services, applications and digital content market.
We will strengthen the data infrastructure for the information technologies sector.
We will encourage IT firms to expand into global markets.
We will create the Game Industry Strategy.
We will ensure that R&D, innovation and export incentives for ICT are implemented in priority areas with measurable impacts.
We will create investment location-independent support for software companies.
We will make greater use of information technologies to increase the work efficiency of enterprises, especially SMEs.
In this context, we will make the necessary legal and administrative arrangements for the development and expansion of cloud computing services.
We will ensure that the public sector plays a facilitating role in the roll-out of cloud computing services, including by providing or supporting awareness training, consultancy and brokerage services to SMEs.
We will implement legal regulations on the protection of personal data and cyber security.
We will prepare a Strategy and Action Plan for Combating Cybercrime.
We will establish specialized courts for information crimes.
We will develop a smart cities program.
We will develop and implement a green IT program.
We will increase open access to cultural and scientific digital information.
We will update ICT education curricula in vocational high schools and universities, and develop an ICT education cooperation program between the private sector and educational institutions.
We will organize non-formal vocational IT trainings.
We will expand ICT-supported remote working conditions.
We will implement a program to attract qualified IT workforce from abroad.
We will ensure the widespread use of special ICT software and hardware for the disabled.
We will provide internet access to poor families with certain criteria.
Families with children receiving tablet computers distributed under the FATIH project will be prioritized, and these families will be provided with internet access services at a certain quota using public resources.
We will increase access to information and communication technologies for people with disabilities.
We will promote the necessary software and hardware for those in need, especially the visually and orthopedically impaired.
We will enable approximately 350,000 disabled citizens to use information and communication technologies.
We will increase safer and more informed internet use and user confidence, especially among children and young people.
We will improve the conditions of internet cafes, especially physical conditions, to ensure that they can serve all individuals, classify these cafes, and ensure that they serve in a healthy and safe manner.
In this way, we aim to create a better quality and safer service environment for approximately 5 million internet café users.
We will carry out the necessary work to expand internet access.
In this context, we will support the development of Turkish digital content.
We will support the establishment of public IT centers in local governments.
We will encourage the development of e-Commerce and implement a trust stamp system for e-Commerce sites.
We will prepare an e-Export Strategy.
We will create an internet entrepreneurship support center.
The Justice and Development Party advocates people-centered, sustainable, balanced and total development.
The concept of development includes economic development but goes far beyond it.
Our understanding of inclusive development is based on reaching out to every individual and every region of our country, mobilizing all the energy of our country and realizing our vision for 2023 and beyond by working together.
In this framework, balanced and fair distribution of increasing prosperity among various segments and regions is among the fundamental policies adopted by our Party.
Sustainable development creates equality of opportunity for the current generation, as well as intergenerational justice.
With this understanding, it treats the environment with a sense of responsibility towards future generations and considers it as a trust.
On the other hand, when we take into account that an increasing proportion of the world's population lives in cities and that wealth and culture develop in cities, our main priority is to create livable cities.
In this process, we aim to ensure that our cities, which we believe will rise on our civilization, develop in a way that reflects the colors of our culture and the lines of the times we live in, has a robust infrastructure, is resistant to disasters and is sensitive to the environment.
5.1. Balanced Distribution of Welfare across Regions
As AK Party, our understanding is to reduce the differences between the regions of our country,
to ensure total development by bringing living standards closer together.
Turkey is a country where regional development gaps are decreasing,
prosperity is spread more evenly across the country,
We will continue our unremitting efforts to make Turkey a country where economic and social integration is strengthened.
With our more inclusive, equitable and participatory development approach, to increase the competitiveness of all our regions, especially our underdeveloped regions, in a qualified manner
and we see mobilizing local potential as a fundamental task.
In this framework, we are developing our new regional policy on the axis of equity and competition.
a. What Have We Done?
As a result of the policies and practices we have developed during our AK Party governments, the income imbalance between regions tends to decrease.
While the difference between the highest and lowest level 2 regions was 4.3 times in 2004, we reduced it to 3.9 times in 2011.
For the first time, we prepared the National Strategy for Regional Development (2014-2023) in order to determine general policies and priorities at national level in the field of regional development.
In order to identify socio-economic development trends and the development potential of settlements at the regional level, we prepared regional plans covering all regions of our country, first for the period 2010-2013 and then for the period 2014-2023.
We strengthened the governance of regional development policy,
We have established the necessary institutional structures for the effective implementation of regional development policies at central and local levels.
We established the High Council for Regional Development (HSRD) to determine general policies and priorities at the national level in the field of regional development and the Regional Development Committee (RDC) to ensure coordination and cooperation among institutions on regional development.
At the regional level, in addition to the GAP Regional Development Administration (GAP RDA), we established Konya Plain Project (KOP) RDA, Eastern Anatolia Project (DAP) RDA, Eastern Black Sea Project (DOKAP) RDA with the Decree Law No. 642 in 2011.
We completed the GAP, KOP, DAP and DOKAP Action Plans covering the 2014-2018 period to ensure that the projects and activities of relevant institutions and organizations are carried out in harmony, integrity and coordination.
We have established development agencies in 26 regions as a new regional governance platform.
In the 2008-2014 period, we allocated around 2.5 billion TL to development agencies, including 1.7 billion TL from the central budget and approximately 860 million TL as local share.
Our Development Agencies accelerate regional development,
It carries out planning, research and analysis activities to reduce inter-regional and intra-regional development disparities,
promoting the potentials and investment opportunities of the regions,
and partnerships,
Financial Support Programs are implemented in line with the priorities identified in regional plans.
Within the scope of Financial Support Programs, we supported 7,743 projects out of a total of 37,563 project applications in the period starting from 2008 until September 2015.
The amount we have allocated to these projects is 2.15 billion TL and the total budget amount including co-financing is 3.9 billion TL.
With the incentive system, we made important arrangements to reduce regional development differences.
In terms of support elements, we gave the largest share to the provinces in the 5th and 6th Regions.
We reduced the corporate tax rate for investments realized in these regions to 4 percent and 2 percent, respectively.
Since the entry into force of the Investment Incentive System, the amount of fixed investment envisaged for investments to be made in our 5th and 6th Regions has reached 31.7 billion TL
and the employment foreseen within the scope of incentivized investments has reached approximately 133.7 thousand.
We established Investment Support Offices (ISOs) in 81 provinces within the agencies.
Investment support offices continue their activities to attract investors by promoting the business and investment environment of their provinces, and to inform and support entrepreneurs at every stage of investment.
Through our Investment Support Offices, since their establishment, we have provided consultancy services to more than 70,000 investors on various issues, and prepared more than 2,000 reports, analyses and promotional brochures.
We worked on a Cluster Governance Model for the effective implementation of clustering policies.
We ensured that 81 clusters were analyzed by the Agencies using the Cluster Identification Guide we prepared in cooperation with the UN Development Program.
We are preparing a regional venture capital model and legislation to support entrepreneurs in need of financing with high growth potential.
Within the scope of the EU-Turkey Financial Cooperation, we started the Enhancement of Regional Competitiveness Project together with the OECD to conduct regional competitiveness analyses and set regional targets in order to achieve the production, export and value-added increase targets set out in the sector strategies.
In order to assess the investment climate at national and regional level and to develop institutional capacity, we started the Regional Investment Climate Assessment Project together with the World Bank under the 2010 EU-Turkey Financial Cooperation.
We launched the "Centers of Attraction Support Program" to accelerate the economic and social development of provincial centers with high potential to grow and serve their surroundings in relatively underdeveloped regions and to spread development to surrounding settlements.
Within the scope of the program implemented in Diyarbakır, Erzurum, Gaziantep, Şanlıurfa and Van, we have so far allocated approximately 283 million TL to projects mostly aimed at supporting cultural tourism infrastructure.
We have implemented cross-border cooperation programs for neighboring countries.
As part of the accession negotiations with the EU, Chapter 22 on Regional Development and Coordination of Structural Instruments was opened for negotiations at the Tenth Turkey-EU Ministerial Accession Conference in 2013.
In this context, we continue to work on the effective use of pre-accession financial assistance.
b. What will we do?
In the coming period, AK Party will reduce regional development disparities within the framework of a more balanced and fully developed Turkey,
spreading prosperity more evenly across the country,
strengthening economic and social integration,
We will ensure that the competitiveness of all regions is enhanced.
We will pay special attention to regional development policies for more inclusive, equitable and participatory development.
Development policies will be differentiated according to the characteristics and needs of settlements,
multi-center across the country
and create a balanced settlement system.
It will increase the competitiveness of metropolises on a global scale,
We will ensure that metropolitan economies focus on advanced technology, specialized services and cultural sectors.
We will strengthen social cohesion by improving urban infrastructure and urban culture.
We will develop growth centers in Anatolia for the balanced development of industry across the country and to better utilize existing domestic potentials.
We will create dynamic, competitive cities that attract investment and skilled labor.
We will support centers that will play a driving role in the development of relatively low-income regions and ensure more balanced development across the country, and ensure that the progress made by these cities is transferred to the surrounding regions over time.
We will focus on supporting entrepreneurship in medium-development provinces, improving urban standards and strengthening city image, and developing human and social capital to support the transformation process in cities.
Improving minimum living standards in low-income provinces,
strengthening their integration into the national economic and social structure, improving the quality and accessibility of basic infrastructure and services,
We will implement policies to ensure capital accumulation that will form the basis for economic development.
We will develop region-specific employment policies and practices to support population retention in regions.
We will strengthen the connections of universities with the regions where they are located and ensure that they become centers of knowledge, innovation and technology transfer, primarily serving businesses and institutions in their regions.
By strengthening regional cooperation between Turkey's border regions and neighboring countries, we will provide a new opening for development in these regions.
We will implement additional measures to make agencies work more effectively by evaluating the experience of Development Agencies.
We will reduce the processes related to agency support and diversify support mechanisms with new tools.
We will support development agencies to focus on analysis and research, differentiate themselves by focusing on the potential of their regions and develop strategies.
We will ensure that agencies play a more effective role in the management and utilization of European Union Structural Funds and in strengthening cross-border cooperation.
We will prepare and implement a strategy and action plan to improve the institutional capacity of relevant stakeholders within the scope of the European Union Cohesion Fund.
We will prepare the necessary planning documents for the utilization of Structural Funds and create a project pool.
We will establish a comprehensive Monitoring Information System for regional support that will also meet European Union requirements.
We will conduct research and modeling studies that will enable the evaluation and monitoring of the investment climate on a regional scale.
We will carry out system design studies to improve investment support and promotion practices and to activate the activities of development agencies in this field.
We will analyze the business and investment environment at regional level and prepare 26 regional investment climate assessment reports and one national investment climate assessment report.
5.2. Spatial Planning and Zoning
We believe that our cities should be places that encompass and embrace all people, regardless of their social and economic status.
In the past, while our cities were shaped by the essence of our civilization, they were also cities that melted the people living in them in accordance with the essence and spirit of our civilization.
Our vision of the city is also our vision of civilization.
Our urban heritage is also our civilization accumulation.
We are not only responsible for today's cities, today's people, today's Turkey.
To make our people the focus of the city with the awareness of carrying the responsibility of building tomorrow from today and zoning tomorrow on our shoulders;
Our basic principle in spatial planning is to transform our cities into quality living centers where people live in peace, happiness and self-confidence.
a. What Have We Done?
While the country's population increased by 10 percent in total during our AK Party governments, the urban population increased by 48 percent in settlements with a population over 20 thousand.
In this period, the urbanization rate rose from 65.5 percent to 87.2 percent.
With Law No. 6360, the jurisdiction of metropolitan municipalities was defined as provincial borders, which led to an increase in the urbanization rate from 72.3 percent in 2012 to 86.7 percent in 2013.
In 2005, we added the concept of "provincial environmental layout plan" to the legislation and authorized metropolitan municipalities to prepare provincial environmental layout plans.
In 2006, with the amendment we made to the Law on Municipalities, we gave City Councils a legal infrastructure.
We created the Local Agenda 21 program for urban governance in Turkey.
In 2009, we put rapid urbanization under the spotlight with the Urbanization Council.
In 2010, KENTGES Document was published and various actions were defined.
KENTGES Monitoring and Steering Committee was established.
In 2011, we established the Ministry of Environment and Urbanization and ensured that urbanization was defined as a stand-alone policy area.
By establishing the General Directorate of Geographical Information Systems, we ensured that all data related to planning are stored and made available in digital environment under the name of national geographical information system.
For the establishment of Turkey's National Geographic Information System, we have identified the spatial data produced by institutions and determined the content and exchange standards of these data.
We completed the "Land Registry Cadastre Information System Project" (TAKBIS), one of the most fundamental e-Government projects.
We have completed the cadastral works at 99 percent and we are continuing the renewal works.
In 2012, we increased the number of metropolitan municipalities to 30, integrated metropolitan municipality borders with provincial borders, and abolished special provincial administrations in metropolitan municipalities and town municipalities and villages within metropolitan borders.
Between 2002 and 2014, we made 14 amendments to the Zoning Law No. 3194 and a new and comprehensive amendment is on our agenda.
We prevented the fragmentation of land with a legal amendment and accelerated land consolidation practices.
In 2014, the "Regulation on the Making of Spatial Plans" covering spatial plans of all types and scales and revisions, additions and amendments to these plans was published.
We have completed environmental layout plans in 97 percent of our country.
In order to plan the coasts in a healthy way, we ensured that 98 percent of the coastal edge lines were determined.
b. What will we do?
As AK Party, our policy in the coming period in all our places, especially in our ancient cities, will be horizontal construction, not vertical.
Our top priorities will be to protect and develop our cities as places to live in harmony with nature and culture.
While ensuring the welfare and happiness of our society within a sustainable development approach, we will also keep in mind that this nature and environment is a trust of future generations.
We will take the necessary steps in all sectors to develop construction, zoning and settlement in line with these principles.
Each city will be integrated into the country with its economy, culture, historical heritage, handicrafts, agriculture and tourism and will make a name for itself.
On the other hand, the most advanced techniques, technologies, developments, commercial and economic connections at the global level will also contribute to the branding of our cities.
Our goal is to transform our cities into human-friendly, environmentally friendly, aesthetic, participatory and prosperous brand cities.
Accordingly, we will revise the zoning legislation in line with the needs of the day.
We will improve urban design principles and practices to facilitate access to services for people who require special attention, such as the disabled, the elderly and those with mobility limitations.
Zoning of public land in cities, economic development,
We will ensure its more active use on the basis of common socio-cultural benefit.
In the coming period, we will encourage horizontal rather than vertical construction, especially in cities with a strong historical texture.
We will create people-friendly, environment-friendly, aesthetic, participatory and prosperous cities with identity and personality.
We will revise the zoning and urban planning legislation to include basic principles and standards on land use, planning and construction, as well as supervision mechanisms to ensure that our cities have a planned and healthy structure.
We will further improve our spatial planning and urban design practices that aim to increase livability for different segments of society, with priority given to our elderly, disabled and children, and that take into account equity.
We will expand the use of innovative tools by municipalities, such as the transfer of development rights in undeveloped areas, to expand common use areas and reduce the financial burden of zoning applications.
We will simplify the Spatial Planning System.
We will ensure that planning and implementation are carried out on site and through a participatory process, taking into account upper-scale strategies, targets and criteria.
We will implement the principles of interoperability among organizations producing and using geographical spatial information and establish a national geographic information system infrastructure.
5.3. Urban Transformation and Housing
As AK Party, our approach to urban transformation is to transform our cities, which have been suffering from migration, slums, unplanned construction, lack of resources and legal problems for many years, into "livable" and "brand" cities.
By setting long-term visions for each of our cities, we see urban transformation as a path to the square of civilization where development meets aesthetics, with the priority approach of ensuring that our cities serve the development of the country with their economy, culture, historical heritage, tourism and agriculture in a quality manner.
a. What Have We Done?
Today, high standards of urbanization have become an indicator of wealth and development.
In 2004, we authorized metropolitan municipalities for urban renewal and in 2005, we authorized municipalities for urban transformation.
In 2004, we adopted a regulation to protect the worn-out historical and cultural immovable assets in areas registered as protected areas by renovating them.
In 2010, we ensured that the 2023-targeted Integrated Urban Development Strategy and Action Plan entered into force.
In the Action Plan, we included important actions in the field of urban transformation.
In 2012, the Law authorized the Ministry of Environment and Urbanization to identify risky buildings in disaster-prone areas and to renovate them.
By the end of 2014, we ensured that 7,162 hectares of land, including 175 thousand buildings in 152 different areas in 40 provinces, inhabited by approximately 1.1 million people, were declared as risky areas.
Licensed institutions identified 56,912 buildings with a total of 198,762 independent units, 171,519 of which were residential buildings, as risky.
38 different regions of 42,657 hectares in 14 provinces were identified as reserve construction areas.
We have allocated approximately 1 billion 138 million TL for rent aids, project expenses, protocol fees, service procurement works, expropriation and demolition expenses.
Within the scope of the Law, we have allocated a total of 473 million TL for the transformation practices carried out by the Ministry and local governments, and the interest support paid has reached 3 million TL.
The housing deficit has decreased due to the increase in housing construction in recent years.
As of September 2015, approximately 546 thousand of the 679,382 housing units, the construction of which was started by TOKİ since 2003, have been completed with their social and technical facilities.
b. What We Will Do
In the coming period, we will continue our urban transformation works rapidly, taking into account urban aesthetics.
In this context, we will implement our "Priority Transformation Program for Urban Transformation that Considers Competitiveness and Social Cohesion".
Within the scope of the program, we will make arrangements to ensure that the public gets a share of the increase in value created by zoning changes.
We will develop a Real Estate Certificate Model to enable the transfer of rights in urban transformation areas.
We will make arrangements to pave the way for new financing instruments such as SUKUK in urban transformation projects.
We will support local governments in developing land with infrastructure.
We will move or improve the Small Industrial Sites (SIS) in the city center.
We will set the minimum urban standards to be applied in transformation areas in a way that will enable a high level of livability in our cities.
We will realize urban transformation projects in harmony with our historical, cultural and aesthetic values.
We will work to reveal and strengthen the historical and cultural identity of cities.
We will support projects to revitalize historic city centers.
We will take priority measures for cultural assets facing disaster risk.
We will support the repair and restoration of privately owned immovable cultural assets.
We will establish a Building Research Center within the Ministry of Environment and Urbanization.
We will focus on developing new construction techniques and materials and equipment.
We will create R&D and investment support mechanisms to ensure domestic production of innovative and environmentally friendly products and solutions at international standards.
We will prevent the use of inappropriate or unsafe imported building materials supplied to the market.
We will ensure the use of domestic and innovative products in urban transformation.
We will conduct neighborhood-based social analyses in metropolitan cities.
We will conduct socio-economic and cultural surveys to strengthen social cohesion in transformation areas and make arrangements to meet the housing needs of lower income groups and the poor.
We will strengthen the relationship between vocational training and employment programs and social urban regeneration programs.
We will also prepare an Urban Transformation Areas Strategy Document to prioritize urban transformation practices across the country.
We will prioritize the areas that will be subject to urban transformation by establishing criteria such as areas with high disaster risk, areas with high potential to generate added value and the number of people who will benefit from the project.
Within the scope of urban transformation practices, we will continue our efforts in line with the target of transforming 6.5 million units by 2023.
We will encourage green building and settlement practices in urban transformation.
We will provide R&D and investment support for the domestic production of innovative and environmentally friendly products and solutions at international standards.
In the transformation of areas under disaster risk, if there are foundation cultural assets within the area, we will ensure the restoration of the buildings and the opening of their surroundings through cooperation and coordination.
We will ensure that unauthorized buildings are connected to electricity and water on condition that urban transformation is carried out.
We will ensure a balance between supply and demand in the housing market, especially in settlements where there is a housing deficit.
In order to increase access to housing, we will focus on land production with completed social and technical infrastructure.
We will diversify financing methods to increase access to housing for lower income groups.
We are developing a new financing mechanism to facilitate home ownership and support our construction sector by encouraging people to save.
We will provide a 15 percent public contribution to our citizens who open a housing account to buy a house and save 25 percent down payment.
We will strive to design housing and environments that meet the needs of the elderly, children and people with disabilities.
We will develop new financing models to expand energy efficiency practices in housing.
5.4. Urban Infrastructure
Since the day we were founded as AK Party, we have adopted the principle that our citizens can live peacefully and prosperously in cities only with a strong urban infrastructure.
With this approach, ensuring that infrastructure services are accessible, complete, high quality, healthy and affordable is among our indispensable criteria in serving our citizens.
We have placed human health and peace of mind first at the center of our urban policy.
With this understanding, we are committed to improving the quality of life of our citizens in the city.
a. What Have We Done?
The AK Party demonstrates the importance it attaches to the quality of urban life through its investments in the infrastructure of cities.
One of the main factors that improve the quality of life in a city is the adequacy and strength of its infrastructure.
In this context, we provided drinking water to 41 million people with 70 drinking water projects commissioned between 2003 and 2014.
Through 61 modern drinking water treatment plants, we ensured that 7 million m3 of water, which 41 million people need daily, is treated at EU standards.
We have prepared Basin Protection Action Plans for 25 basins to ensure more efficient management of water in terms of quality and quantity.
In 2008, we prepared Drinking Water Action Plans for 81 provinces to ensure uninterrupted supply of drinking and potable water to our cities in the long term.
In recent years, in order to protect the environment and human health, we have given importance to solid waste management and accelerated the construction of sanitary landfills.
On the other hand, we accelerated our recycling and recycling activities with the increase in awareness and environmental consciousness regarding recycling and recycling.
We completed the Solid Waste Master Plan.
Efforts were made to establish an effective solid waste management system at the national level and we implemented Regional Solid Waste Facility Projects to benefit from economies of scale.
In the EU harmonization process, we updated waste legislation and paved the way for the implementation of projects financed by EU grants.
We established a Waste Declaration System to create a healthy data infrastructure for hazardous waste.
In order to facilitate the recovery of packaging waste by collecting it separately at source, we ensured the registration of packaging producers and marketers.
We have made significant progress in the collection, transportation and temporary storage of medical waste at source, separately from other wastes,
We have started the rehabilitation of existing wild landfills.
We launched the National Recycling Strategy.
While the ratio of the population served by drinking water treatment plants in the municipal population was 36 percent in 2002, we increased it to 56 percent in 2012.
While the ratio of the population served by sewerage network to the total municipal population was 83 percent in 2002, it reached 92 percent in 2012.
While the ratio of the population served by wastewater treatment plants to the total municipal population was 35 percent in 2002, we increased this ratio to 68 percent in 2012.
While there were 145 wastewater treatment plants in 2002, we increased this number to 595 by 2014.
While in 2002, the number of sanitary landfill facilities was 12 and approximately 40 percent of the population living in municipalities benefited from these facilities, this number increased to 80 in 2014 and approximately 67 percent of the population living in municipalities benefit from these facilities.
While there were 6 medical waste sterilization units in 2008, this number increased to 46 in 2014 and 79 provinces benefit from these facilities.
We launched the SUKAP program in 2011 to provide resources for drinking water and sewerage projects that are urgent but difficult to finance.
With the program, we provided 50 percent central budget grants for drinking water and sewerage projects in settlements with a population below 25 thousand.
We allocated 2.6 billion TL from the central budget to the program.
Under the program, we have completed 528 projects costing 1.7 billion TL and 475 projects costing 4.1 billion TL are ongoing.
With our drinking water investments, we have solved the drinking water problems of all our cities, especially Istanbul, Ankara, Izmir, Bursa, Mersin, Erzurum, Şanlıurfa, Diyarbakır and Mardin, on a long-term basis.
We have also planned the long-term drinking water needs of 81 provinces.
With our efforts, we did not leave our cities without water even during the great drought we experienced in 2014.
In order to meet Istanbul's long-term drinking water needs, we have completed the first two phases of the Melen Project, the largest drinking water project in the history of the Republic.
We realize different projects separately to provide drinking water to Istanbul.
As part of the Melen Project, we connected Asia and Europe 135 meters under the sea with the 5,551-meter-long Bosphorus Tunnel, the first and only one in the world to connect two continents.
We completed the Gördes Dam in 2009 to provide drinking water to İzmir.
106.5 km of transmission lines were also constructed, providing 59 million m3 of drinking water.
In order to meet Ankara's long-term water demand, 226 million m3/year of water from near Gerede will be transferred to Çamlıdere Dam by gravity through a 32 km tunnel with a diameter of 4.5 meters.
Within the scope of the "Ergene Basin Protection Action Plan", a total of 13 domestic wastewater treatment plant (WWTP) projects are being carried out, 12 by DSİ and 1 with IPA resources.
In order to incentivize wastewater treatment plant managements, we provide 50 percent of the energy costs of wastewater treatment plants operated in accordance with the legislation.
In 2011, we established the General Directorate of Water Management, the Water Institute of Turkey and the General Directorate of Infrastructure Services.
We removed the criterion for the General Directorate of State Hydraulic Works (DSİ) to carry out drinking water projects for settlements with a population over 100 thousand.
We started to work on the construction of sewerage and wastewater treatment plants on a basin basis.
We commissioned Çanakkale, Kuşadası, Amasya, Bitlis, Kütahya, Balıkesir Regional Integrated Solid Waste Management Projects financed by EU grants.
We commissioned the solid waste projects in Adıyaman, Mardin and Nizip, financed by the GAP Regional Development Administration and the relevant municipality.
We commissioned solid waste projects in Samsun and Erzurum.
We have constructed many sanitary landfills in areas designated by the Special Environmental Protection Board (abolished).
We put into service the solid waste projects in Gelibolu and Bergama financed by the World Bank.
Within the scope of harmonization with the EU, we have enacted various regulations in areas such as general principles of waste management, landfill, incineration facilities, packaging waste, medical waste, waste oils, vegetable waste oils, waste batteries and accumulators, end-of-life tires, waste electrical and electronic equipment, excavated soil, construction and demolition waste, and end-of-life vehicles.
b. What We Will Do
In the coming period, we will accelerate urban infrastructure works to improve the quality of life of our citizens and we will complete the basic infrastructure requirements in our cities within the framework of our vision of livable spaces.
We will eliminate deficiencies and ambiguities in the legislation on water management, clarify the duties, authorities and responsibilities of institutions, and improve cooperation and coordination among all institutions and organizations related to water management.
Ensuring water conservation in watersheds by assessing the impacts of climate change and all activities in watersheds on water quantity and quality,
fight against drought
and we will take the necessary measures, especially pollution prevention.
We will ensure financial sustainability in the provision of drinking water and sewerage investments and services.
We will complete the construction of the Melen Dam in 2016.
We will complete the Gerede Project and solve Ankara's drinking water problem until 2050.
In order to meet the long-term water needs of the TRNC, we will ensure that 75 million m3/year of water from the Anamur Dragon Stream will be transferred to the island by transferring it to the Geçitköy Dam built near Kyrenia on the TRNC side through pipes suspended in the Mediterranean Sea.
We will address solid waste management in metropolitan cities within the framework of a new model.
We will create a registration system to ensure that our citizens who sort recyclables from garbage on the streets work under humane conditions.
Provided that they have a certificate, we will provide garbage collectors with summer and winter work clothes and shoes suitable for working conditions free of charge every year by the municipalities where they reside.
We will ensure that the annual health screenings of these certificate holders are carried out free of charge by the health units in the municipalities to which they are affiliated.
We will support the solid waste collection, transportation, recovery and disposal facilities of local governments within the framework of the Solid Waste Program (KAP) by allocating funds from the Central Budget every year.
Within the principles of the Solid Waste Master Plan, we will finance the solid waste facilities of local governments at the feasibility, project and implementation stages through a structure similar to SUKAP.
5.5. Local Governments
As AK Party, we envisage a rational distribution of services between the central administration and local governments with an understanding of the integrity of the administration.
We position central and local governments as complementary and fundamental elements in the process of delivering services to our citizens in the most effective way.
In the period ahead, decentralization of public services within the framework of centralized standards will continue to be our fundamental principle.
We are based on a healthy cooperation and coordination between the central government and local governments and we believe that local governments should be the main responsible for all kinds of public service provision of a local nature.
We envisage that local governments will improve their administrative and financial capacities and work quickly and efficiently as service units that are closest to citizens and most responsive to local demands.
a. What Have We Done?
In our country, we have made progress towards providing local services in a more efficient, fast and qualified manner, with a transparent, participatory, accountable, environmentally sensitive administration that takes into account the needs of disadvantaged groups and ensures financial sustainability.
We initiated restructuring efforts in local administrations and made many fundamental arrangements in the areas of responsibility, duties and services of these administrations.
Within the framework of the restructuring of local governments, we increased the number of metropolitan municipalities and expanded municipal boundaries to provincial borders in order to increase efficiency, coordination and quality in services by utilizing economies of scale.
In these places, we ensured the closure of special provincial administrations and reduced the number of municipalities.
In 2002, the ratio of the population living under municipal administration to the total population was 81 percent, while this ratio was 93 percent in 2014.
While in 2002 the number of municipalities was 3,228, this number dropped to 1,397 in 2015.
While the number of metropolitan cities was 16 in 2002, this number increased to 30 with the regulation made in 2014.
Law No. 5216 on Metropolitan Municipalities, Law No. 5302 on Special Provincial Administration and Law No. 5393 on Municipalities.
We enacted the Law No. 5355 on Local Administration Unions in order to overcome financing difficulties in urban infrastructure and to benefit from economies of scale.
Training projects are carried out by many of our institutions in order to meet the training needs of local administration personnel.
We completed the BEPER project within the Ministry of Interior to measure the performance of municipalities.
Our Local Information Project, which aims to collect basic data on municipalities in a common database, is ongoing.
We launched the Cloud Municipality Project under the Ministry of Interior in order to provide municipal services to citizens on the internet, to make local services more efficient, less costly and accessible from anywhere, and to enable payments such as taxes and invoices to be made over the internet.
b. What We Will Do
We have a human and service-oriented management approach in local governments.
As stated in our party program, our activities and efforts to increase the weight of localization and local governments in the state structure, which is a necessity of our age and a basic condition of advanced democracy, will continue in the coming period.
Local governments should not be seen as a mere administrative and technical apparatus;
advanced democracy,
institutionalization of governance,
citizen empowerment and participation in governance,
transparency and accountability and
We see it as a means of increasing effectiveness and efficiency in public service delivery.
In this context, we will continue our legal and institutional arrangements to further strengthen local governments.
We will continue our efforts to increase the effectiveness of local governments in health, education, culture, social assistance, tourism, environmental village services, agriculture, animal husbandry, zoning and transportation services, taking into account local preferences.
We will make arrangements to increase local revenues of local administrations.
We will evaluate the service delivery methods of metropolitan municipalities within the framework of a new model and make the necessary administrative, institutional and legislative arrangements.
We will initiate legislation to set minimum service standards for local governments.
In order to ensure the efficiency and continuity of local government services, we will work on legislation to prevent the change of personnel, especially technical staff, every election period.
We will make arrangements to prioritize the services of local governments and ensure that sufficient resources are allocated to infrastructure investments.
We will organize training activities with defined criteria and standards to increase the capacity of the personnel working in local administrations, especially in newly established metropolitan municipalities.
In this context, we will implement our "Priority Transformation Program for the Development of Local Institutional Capacity".
Within the scope of the program, we will periodically measure the satisfaction of our citizens with municipal services.
We will set service standards in areas related to municipal services.
With the Cloud Municipality Project, we will standardize municipal services to be provided electronically and provide them with a central infrastructure.
We will support the efforts of metropolitan municipalities for smart city applications.
We will pair existing and newly established metropolitan municipalities for experience transfer.
We will meticulously monitor the implementation of the regulation that requires metropolitan cities to allocate a minimum amount of resources from their budgets so that rural areas are not neglected.
We will review the meeting and working systems of city councils and increase their functionality.
We will establish a human resources management system in local governments.
We will strengthen specialization and career structure in local governments.
We will ensure the employment of qualified personnel in governorships.
We will implement systematic training programs for managers.
We will strengthen local project development capacity, particularly in universities.
We will strengthen regional development administrations.
We will increase the capacities of CSOs with project-based support.
We will prepare a draft law outlining the general framework of CSO-public sector cooperation.
We will improve the Metropolitan Municipality Law in the light of our existing experience in order to eliminate its shortcomings.
We will take measures to increase the resources of district municipalities in metropolitan areas.
We will make arrangements to strengthen the borrowing system and accountability of local administrations.
We will set service standards in areas related to basic municipal services and ensure that they are put into effect.
We will expand the legislative arrangements for local administrations to carry out joint projects and activities with civil society organizations, encourage voluntary participation in local services, and make city councils more effective.
Taking into account the geographical and social conditions in rural areas, we will make a new regulation in the zoning legislation.
5.6. Rural Development
As AK Party, we consider rural areas as a complementary element of balanced development and social life in urban-rural integrity.
We also see rural areas as places that feed our cities and our country, provide basic inputs, and add value to the land and environment we live on.
With this approach, delivering basic services to our citizens living in rural areas,
improving their quality of life
and the protection and development of rural life are among our main priorities.
To ensure that our rural population lives productively in rural areas by meeting the basic and infrastructure needs of our rural population with the motto that sustainable development is possible through rural production and protection
We consider it vital for the healthy and balanced development of our country.
a. What Have We Done?
As AK Party, during the first breakthrough period, we developed various projects to improve rural infrastructure and ensure development, and launched the largest rural infrastructure move in the history of the Republic.
We prepared national rural development strategy documents (NRDS) for Turkey for the first time. NRDS-I covers the period 2007-2013 and NRDS-II covers the period 2014-2020.
We also prepared the Rural Development Plan (2010-2013) for the first time in our country.
With the legislation, we established the inter-institutional cooperation needed in rural development, which is a multi-sectoral and multi-actor issue
and strengthened the monitoring structure of the Rural Development Plan.
We established a Rural Development Monitoring Committee, which functions as an advisory body with central and local administrations as principal and non-public sectors as observers.
Within the scope of our "Rural Development Investments Support Program" launched in 2006, we provided 1.2 billion grants to 5,589 new agricultural facilities with 50 percent grants and provided employment opportunities for 60 thousand people.
In May 2007, we established the Agriculture and Rural Development Support Institution to manage agriculture and rural development programs to be carried out with funds from the EU and other international organizations.
Within the scope of IPARD, we offered a total of 1.1 Billion Euros, of which 855 Million Euros is EU grant, to investors for rural development.
In this context, 7,647 projects have been completed so far and we have invested a total of 5.8 billion TL.
With the supported IPARD projects, we provided new employment opportunities for 42 thousand people.
We have created a total investment area of 6 Billion TL in Rural Areas.
Since 2011, we have made approximately 80 million TL grant payments to 614 women investors with IPARD supports.
Since 2007, 50 percent grant support has been provided for machinery-equipment purchases.
To date, we have provided 1.121 million TL grant support for 270 thousand machinery-equipment purchases.
In the 1990-2002 period, 681 cooperatives were provided with 99 million TL in loans. In the 2003-2014 period, we increased the number of cooperatives granted loans by nearly 3 times and the amount of support by 22 times, supporting 1,858 cooperatives with 2.2 billion TL.
Within the scope of Support Payment for Agricultural Extension and Advisory Services, we have made a total of 214 million TL support payment since 2009.
The KÖYDES Project, which we launched in 2005 to address the basic infrastructure needs of villages such as roads and drinking water, has been transformed into an integrated infrastructure program with the inclusion of small-scale irrigation and wastewater works.
We allocated approximately 9.5 billion TL to the project in the 2005-2015 period.
In the 2005-2015 implementation period of the KÖYDES Project, we invested in 197 thousand km of roads, including 7.33 thousand km of raw, 80 thousand km of stabilized, 107.5 thousand km of asphalt and 2.8 thousand km of concrete roads, and 16.9 million m² of parquet in village roads and village square arrangements.
With drinking water projects, we provided drinking water to 52,615 units, 4,290 of which were thirsty and 48,324 of which had insufficient water.
With small irrigation investments, we have brought 62 thousand hectares of agricultural land under irrigation and 65 thousand farmer families have benefited from these irrigation investments.
We invested in 174 units of wastewater.
Although the total village road network increased by approximately 42 thousand km in the 2005-2015 period, the ratio of asphalt-concrete roads increased from 33 percent to 46 percent, and the ratio of units with adequate water increased from 81 percent to 92 percent.
We have established Village Service Provision Unions in almost all districts in order to meet the service and investment needs of villages of local common nature, especially KÖYDES Project applications.
In the 2007-2008 period, we implemented the BELDES Project to meet the small-scale infrastructure needs of municipalities with a population of less than 10 thousand.
The amount of resources we have allocated to the project is approximately 626 million TL.
We supported the projects of beneficiaries under our Return to Village and Rehabilitation Program in the relevant provinces.
We ensured that the draft IPARD-II Program (2014-2020) was prepared and submitted to the European Commission for approval at the end of 2014.
b. What will we do?
In the upcoming period, in order to determine the geographical scope of rural policies and to produce rural area statistics in a sound manner, we will produce a gradual definition of rural areas that will not be affected by changes in the administrative structure.
We will conduct a village-based service and investment needs analysis in rural areas.
We will develop rural tourism infrastructure in regions with high potential for natural and cultural resources.
We will ensure that resettlement projects carried out in rural areas are implemented in a way that respects the local architectural texture.
We will ensure that all rural development programs and projects carried out by central administrations with national resources will have steering committees under the chairmanship of the implementing agency, where relevant institutions will come together for an annual study and field visit.
We will ensure that village infrastructure data compiled under KÖYDES are included in the Official Statistics Program and that an annual village infrastructure inventory is published by TURKSTAT.
We will ensure that Rural Development Supports are extended to 81 provinces.
Within the scope of IPARD, we will open an additional 5 thousand facilities and create 40 thousand new jobs with a total of 4 billion TL of new investments, 1.9 billion TL of which will be grants.
In the IPARD-2 Implementation Period, unlike IPARD-I, we will ensure that the public contribution will be increased up to 70 percent for women and young farmers.
In the IPARD-2 Implementation Period, we will ensure that "Renewable Energy Investments" in Rural Areas are included in the scope of support and the support rate will increase up to 100 percent for public investments.
With 81 provinces starting to be supported by ARDSI, we will transform ARDSI into a Payment Agency.
In 2015 and beyond, we will transfer our knowledge and experience in rural development to the 57 Islamic Countries that are members of SESRIC.
5.7. Environmental Protection
Today, the pressure of human activities on natural resources is increasing.
As AK Party, one of our fundamental approaches is to closely follow international developments on environmental issues, which have become a priority to be considered more and more in all kinds of policies and decisions,
is to produce policies with an understanding that considers the balance between conservation and utilization.
The AK Party sees environmental protection not only as a national and international responsibility, but also as an obligation to ensure fairness between generations,
sensitivity to increasing environmental challenges, particularly climate change
and being prepared for natural disasters is one of our most important responsibilities.
We recognize that the establishment of a quality development environment is only possible with a sustainable environmental approach.
a. What Have We Done?
In the first breakthrough period, the main focus was on controlling greenhouse gas emissions that cause global warming,
Increasing the use of renewable energy and energy efficiency,
waste management to be made more efficient,
Expanding and improving the quality of services such as drinking water and sewerage,
expansion of forests and protected areas,
prioritized practices related to biodiversity conservation
and improved environmental indicators.
As AK Party, we started a new era in environmental policies and practices in our country.
We have taken important steps in the areas of environmental protection, elimination of all kinds of pollution, afforestation, renewable energy and energy efficiency, protection of agricultural lands, access to drinking water.
We brought modern environmental technologies and treatment facilities to our country for the first time during the AK Party governments.
We initiated the transition to green growth based on the fact that environmentally sensitive activities create new opportunities such as green technologies and green jobs as well as human health.
In this context, we have developed numerous projects and realized giant investments for the protection and sustainable use of the environment.
As part of the fight against global climate change, we became a party to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in 2004 and the Kyoto Protocol in 2009.
We have prepared the National Climate Change Strategy and Climate Change Action Plan to combat climate change.
We increased the number of air quality measurement stations from 54 in 2005 to 175 in 2014.
Since 2007, according to the results of air quality measurements based on sulfur dioxide and particulate matter, particulate matter and sulfur dioxide have decreased by 36 percent and 50 percent, respectively.
In order to prevent the negative effects of chemicals on the environment and human health in our country, we established the online Chemical Registration System to create a database where classification and label information on the hazards of all harmful chemicals produced or imported are collected.
We have imposed strict quota measures on imports of ozone-depleting substances whose production is banned in Turkey.
Our country has been among the most successful countries within the scope of the Montreal Protocol with the important work it has done in recent years in the fight against ozone depletion.
We increased the number of Special Environmental Protection Areas in our country from 12 in 2002 to 16 in 2014.
We increased the ratio of protected areas to the total surface area of our country from 4.34 percent in 2002 to 8.10 percent in 2014.
We increased the number of beaches with the blue flag, an indicator of clean seas, from 127 in 2002 to 397 in 2014.
With this number, our country ranked third in the world.
We have identified a total of 73 marine sensitive areas that are important for marine species, habitats and marine ecosystems along the coasts of our country.
By establishing an online EIA Process Management system, we reduced time loss by ensuring that all processes within the scope of EIA are carried out through the electronic system.
Online Environmental Permits application has started and while a total of 199 documents were previously requested from the investor, only 16 documents are now required with our e-environmental permits application.
We completed the basin protection action plans of 25 basins in our country at the end of 2013.
Within the scope of our Thrace Development Project (TRAGEP), we will build dams and ponds in Thrace, provide water to fertile lands, rehabilitate streams, and solve our drinking and utility water needs until 2050.
The program will build advanced wastewater treatment plants and solid waste (garbage) disposal facilities.
By rapidly implementing the Action Plan we have prepared for cleaning the Ergene River, we will complete a total of 13 wastewater treatment plants in the basin this year.
In addition, we will hold the infrastructure construction tenders for 8 OIZ projects within the scope of the Action Plan in 2015.
Turkey has been one of the rare countries in the world that has increased its forest cover during our period in power.
In 2002, we increased our forest cover from 208 million decares to 217 million decares.
Within the scope of the Afforestation Mobilization (2008-2012), we carried out afforestation work on 2 million 430 thousand hectares in 5 years.
We succeeded in ranking among the top three in the world in afforestation.
Between 2003 and 2014, we planted 3 billion 250 million saplings.
With the aim of greening not only forests but also the areas where our people live together, we have afforested a total of 15,500 km of roadsides, 38,000 school gardens, 16,400 places of worship and cemeteries, 1,400 health centers and hospital gardens.
Within the scope of combating erosion, we have afforested 121 dams and ponds with the Dam Basins Green Belt Afforestation Action Plan.
In the 1970s, the amount of soil transported by erosion to seas, lakes and dams was 500 million tons per year, but we have reduced this amount to 170 million tons in 2015 with the works carried out in the last 13 years.
We support private sector nurseries.
We established the first sapling exchange in Sakarya in 2014 to prevent imports and become a country that exports saplings.
In 2003, we launched the City Forest Project, and to date, we have established 127 City Forests and 227 Honey Forests as of the end of 2014.
We have provided Turkey with a powerful forest fire suppression system that can help neighboring countries in the fight against forest fires at any time.
With the regulation on the evaluation and sale of lands that have lost their forest quality, known as 2/B in the public opinion, we have solved the issue that could not be solved for 40 years and that brought citizens and the state face to face.
We are increasing our protected areas.
In 2013, we increased the number of protected areas from 952 in 2002 to 1,760 and the amount of protected areas from 3.4 million hectares to 6.3 million hectares.
In 12 years, we increased the number of National Parks from 33 to 40 and the number of Nature Parks from 17 to 192.
b. What will we do?
As AK Party, we closely follow international developments on environmental issues,
We will continue to produce policies with an understanding that respects the balance between conservation and utilization and recognizes the importance of sustainable resource use.
It will embrace all the opportunities that green growth brings, particularly job creation and technology development,
We will ensure that environmentally friendly products are preferred in public procurement to ensure sustainable production and consumption.
Sensitivity to increasing environmental challenges, particularly climate change
and being prepared for natural disasters will continue to be among the most important obligations of our party towards our people and the world, our only living environment.
With an environmentally friendly transportation approach, we will pay special attention to reducing pollution, including noise pollution, in areas where passenger and freight traffic is concentrated, especially in cities.
We will prioritize studies on greenhouse gas emissions in all modes of transportation, especially highways, and establish the necessary monitoring system.
We will implement integrated public transportation systems supported by smart systems in metropolitan areas.
We will reduce greenhouse gas emissions by expanding electric railway lines.
We will take traffic underground in historic city centers where traffic is heavy.
We will increase the green space requirement from 10 square meters per capita to 15 square meters in newly developing areas in cities and make the implementation more effective.
We will encourage animal care centers and hospitals to be established by municipalities, NGOs and the private sector.
We will continue to support waste management services.
We will minimize environmental damage by implementing waste reduction, source separation, collection, transportation, recovery and disposal phases technically and financially as a whole.
We will ensure that waste management becomes an investment area that increases both energy production and employment through recycling.
We will implement environmental sensitivity regarding small hydroelectric power plants (HEPPs) at the highest level, and we will quickly and effectively implement the necessary regulations for this purpose.
In principle, we will not allow HEPPs below 10 MW installed capacity.
We will adopt a legal and institutional "Integrated Water Resources Management Model" to cover surface and underground water resources.
Thus, it will protect all water basins,
develop prevention strategies against pollution
and we will ensure citizen participation.
By enacting a Water Law, it will eliminate deficiencies and uncertainties in the legislation on water management;
will clarify the duties, powers and responsibilities of institutions;
We will improve cooperation and coordination among all institutions and organizations involved in water management.
We are transitioning to basin-based water management for more effective management and protection of our water resources.
For 25 basins, we completed the Basin Protection Action Plan and started implementation.
We prepared and implemented the Ergene Basin Protection Action Plan and projects to clean the Ergene River, the bleeding wound of Thrace.
Tenders for the construction of five wastewater treatment plants for OIZs within the scope of the Ergene Basin Action Plan were realized.
The Collector Line and Sea Deep Discharge project will be tendered and we aim to complete the projects in 2 years.
We will accelerate efforts to create an integrated wastewater and water management system on a basin basis.
We will improve the national basin management system to enable the protection and sustainable use of water resources.
By 2019, we will transform all basin protection action plans into river basin management plans.
We will prepare Drought Management Plans for 17 basins.
We are switching to effective management in the fight against floods.
We will manage floods on a river basin-wide basis in all basins before, during and after floods.
We will prepare flood management plans for 17 basins.
In 2015, we will complete the monitoring programs prepared in 13 basins in 12 basins.
By 2016, we will monitor the water quality of all our rivers and lakes according to EU norms.
We will install the real-time automatic monitoring system we have established in the Ergene Basin in other basins where needed.
We will protect the quality of our water resources.
We will set standards and measures to be taken in order to protect the quality of water resources against domestic waste, industrial waste, pesticides and toxic substances.
We will ensure effective and efficient water use in agricultural irrigation, drinking and other water sectors.
We will also ensure that water from domestic, industrial and irrigation sources is reclaimed and reused.
Ensuring water savings in basins by evaluating the effects of climate change and all activities in water basins on water quantity and quality with scientific methods,
fight against drought
and we will ensure that the necessary adaptation measures, especially pollution prevention, are taken.
We will establish a Water Information System so that all water-related data can be accessed from a single center.
Alignment with the acquis under the EU Environment Chapter Water Quality Sector will be ensured.
Our 2023 target in forestry is to increase forest areas to 23.3 million hectares, equivalent to 30 percent of the country's surface area.
To this end, we will increase forest cover to 22 million hectares in 2015.
Between 2015-2019, we aim to plant 1 billion 250 million saplings in 12 million 700 thousand decares of land.
Reforestation around 500 dams and ponds between 2015-2019,
With the Mining Sites Rehabilitation Action Plans, we will rehabilitate 1,628 abandoned mining sites with an area of 60 thousand decares and restore them to nature.
We will reduce the amount of soil transported by erosion to 140 million tons in 2019.
We will plant fruit-bearing forest trees such as walnut, almond and pistachio pine within the framework of the "5 Thousand Income Generating Forests for 5 Thousand Villages" project in the next 5 years in order to develop our forest villagers on the spot.
By the end of 2019, we will complete the title deed and registration of all our forests.
In the coming period, we will take every measure to further increase our forest assets and continue to manage our forests in line with the principles of sustainable forest management with an understanding that considers the economic, social and ecological functions of our forests.
With the "Law on the Protection of Nature and Biological Diversity", we will protect nature, natural values and biological diversity, raise public awareness about nature and increase the contribution of society to conservation.
We will expand the National Biodiversity Inventory, which we have launched to clearly reveal the biological richness of our country and which we have identified in 19 provinces, to 81 provinces by 2019.
We will improve measurement, monitoring, inspection, control and reporting infrastructure.
In order to better monitor air quality, we will build a total of 6 Clean Air Centers service buildings in Adana, Diyarbakır, Erzurum, İzmir, Konya and Samsun.
We will improve the management of protected areas.
We will plan and support income-generating activities such as ecotourism within protected areas.
We will regularly implement and encourage field guiding practices in protected areas that provide alternative income opportunities for local people.
We will establish Wildlife Rescue and Rehabilitation Centers to protect and support wildlife.
We will work on infrastructure and capacity building to implement the legislation harmonized with the EU.
We will continue nature conservation activities.
5.8. Disaster Management
For the AK Party, which puts people at the center of all its policies and practices, human life is the top priority in our country and in every corner of our world.
With this motto, we see it as not only a duty but also a humanitarian responsibility to strive to ensure firstly the safety of life and secondly the safety of property of our citizens and all people within our reach.
Our basic service principle in this field is to protect our citizens from natural disasters and situations requiring urgent intervention and to make efforts to ensure that they are prepared for disasters by gaining the necessary awareness.
a. What Have We Done?
As AK Party, we established the Disaster and Emergency Management (AFAD) Presidency in 2009 in order to make disaster and emergency services more effective and to end the confusion of authority between institutions.
By ending the confusion of authority in the field of disaster and emergency management, we have created a structure that can respond flexibly, immediately and effectively.
For this purpose, we established the Turkish Disaster Response System.
With the Turkey Disaster Response Plan, we have defined the roles and responsibilities of all public, civil, private sector institutions and organizations in order to be "prepared for minute zero".
As a result of the restructuring of AFAD provincial directorates as provincial organizations, we have transformed AFAD into an implementing organization of approximately 5,600 people under the Prime Ministry.
We enacted the "Catastrophe Insurance Law" No. 6305 in order to popularize the natural disaster insurance system and make it more effective.
In addition to title deed and mortgage loan transactions, we also introduced Compulsory Earthquake Insurance (CEI) checks in electricity and water subscription transactions.
We made it possible for the Natural Catastrophe Insurance Pool (TCIP) to provide coverage for other natural disasters.
The insurance coverage rate increased from 4 percent in 1999 to 40 percent as of September 2015.
We have completed 25 of the Disaster Logistics warehouses that we envisaged to be established in 27 provinces.
2 more are under construction and will be completed in 2016.
We prepared guidelines for the creation of integrated disaster hazard maps and started to produce the maps.
We have completed the establishment of uninterrupted and secure communication systems in 4 provinces and we plan to extend the system to all provinces by the end of 2016.
In 2013, the Turkish Disaster Response Plan (TAMP) entered into force.
We ensured that the EUR 1 billion 213 million of external financing provided for the activities carried out under the Istanbul Seismic Risk Mitigation and Emergency Preparedness Project, which was established to prepare Istanbul for a possible earthquake, was mainly used for the seismic risk retrofitting or demolition and reconstruction of priority public buildings.
Demonstrating an unprecedented level of disaster management in the past, we rapidly responded to the earthquakes in Elazığ, Van and Kütahya, the Soma mine accident and many other disasters such as floods and landslides in our country.
After the Van earthquake, we hosted 175 thousand people in temporary accommodation centers in 35 container cities.
Under the coordination of AFAD, we built approximately 41 thousand disaster houses from 2010 to August 2014.
We established the "Turkey Disaster Risk Management System" within the framework of transition from crisis management to risk management.
We launched the pilot project in Kahramanmaraş this year.
With the "Creation of Integrated Disaster Hazard Maps" project, we prepared technical guidelines and ensured standardization in studies.
In cooperation and coordination with institutions and organizations in the field of technological disasters such as transportation, industrial, mining, chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear accidents, climate change and critical structure collapses, we prepared Turkey's "technological disasters roadmap".
Within the framework of the "Disaster Ready Turkey" campaign, we trained more than one million citizens.
Within the scope of this campaign, we are carrying out "Disaster Ready Family", "Disaster Ready School", "Disaster Ready Workplace", "Disaster Ready Youth" and "Disaster Ready Media" projects.
We attach importance to science and the use of high technologies in disaster management.
In this context, we are carrying out the "Disaster Management and Decision Support System" project to effectively manage all our resources in case of a disaster and the "Uninterrupted and Secure Communication System (KGHS) Project" to ensure the sustainability of communication in case of a disaster.
With the Disaster Management and Decision Support System Project (AYDES), we have completed and put into use the first phase of the incident command module on the way to creating a geographical information system-based decision support system that will enable us to monitor and manage all stages of integrated disaster management electronically.
We provide humanitarian aid regardless of race, religion, language.
We open our doors, hearts and tables to our brothers and sisters in Syria and Iraq who are suffering from humanitarian tragedies.
In these efforts, we ensure better coordination within the public sector and cooperate with NGOs.
Our Suruç Tent City serves as the largest tent city in Turkey with a capacity of 35 thousand people.
As a model country for international aid, we have stood by the people of Gaza under severe attacks.
We reached out to 190 thousand Kobanis in three days. We were the only country to set up a camp in Iraq.
Syrian children learned the language of knowledge, not war, with us.
We carried out the largest evacuation operation from Libya.
As a result of the difficulties in Somalia, we sent more than 40 thousand tons of humanitarian aid materials to Somalia with 19 planes and 10 ships under the coordination of AFAD.
We have not forgotten our Pakistani brothers and sisters who were exposed to floods.
Thanks to our international aid activities that reflect our nation's cultural humanitarianism to the whole world, Turkey allocated 0.21 percent of its GDP for humanitarian aid in 2013, according to the Global Humanitarian Aid report, and became the country providing the highest humanitarian aid in proportion to its national income.
In 2012 and 2013, Turkey ranked third in the list of top international aid donors, behind the United States and the United Kingdom.
In 2013, Turkey provided 7 times more humanitarian aid than the US based on its GDP.
We became a member of the Donor Support Group of the United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs.
This gave us a say in aid to other countries through the UN.
b. What will we do?
As AK Party, our goal in disaster management is to create a disaster-resilient country and society by completing the transformation in disaster management initiated under the coordination of AFAD.
We will establish disaster and emergency management centers of standard type and quality in every province to address the need for effective local centralization of disaster and emergency services and inter-agency cooperation.
We are improving our aerial search and rescue capacity to reach every part of our country within 1.5 hours at the latest.
We are establishing an uninterrupted and secure communication system to ensure uninterrupted communication in case of disaster.
In this context, we will complete our pilot work in 4 provinces by the end of the year and will be expanding it to all provinces by the end of 2017.
We will raise awareness against disasters by providing trainings to our citizens before and after disasters.
With the high level of awareness of our people, logistics centers, temporary settlement infrastructure, strong search and rescue and response capacity, and disaster-resistant building stock, we are shifting from crisis management to a structure that prioritizes risk reduction.
Our aim is to create a community structure that is resilient to disasters even in the worst-case scenarios.
We will continue efforts to expand the natural disaster insurance system.
We will ensure that infrastructure facilities are built to be more disaster-resistant and that construction supervision is strengthened through independent, competent and authorized persons and institutions.
In this framework, we will reorganize the building inspection legislation.
We will enact a holistic framework law on disaster management that will include risk management and activities to increase community resilience.
We will ensure that various legislations including land use decisions, particularly spatial planning legislation, are harmonized with Law No. 7269.
We will redefine the responsibilities and distribution of duties of institutions and organizations responsible for disaster and emergency services.
"Disaster Logistics Centers" have been established and put into operation in 15 regions in our country.
In this way, with our tent stock that can accommodate 600 thousand people, we will quickly deliver the materials needed in disasters to disaster areas.
In 2016, we will host the UN's first World Humanitarian Summit.
Our aim is to complete the transformation process and become disaster-resilient within the sustainable development model and to be more prepared for the worst-case scenarios in cooperation with NGOs.
In this context, we will finalize the Turkey Disaster Management Strategy Document.
We will increase the number of Regional Disaster Training Centers and Mobile Disaster Training Centers.
We aim to prepare an Integrated Disaster Hazard Map.
We will establish the Turkish Disaster Information Bank covering all kinds of scientific studies.
In order to reach every part of our country in 1.5 hours at the latest, we are developing aerial search and rescue capacity with 4 helicopters in Ankara, Bursa, Erzurum and Samsun.
Since the day AK Party was founded, we have made it our mission to establish justice not only in economic and social life, but also in politics and foreign policy.
We have never abandoned this sense of duty, which we consider sacred, regardless of internal and external conditions.
We centered our foreign policy on the axis of equity.
As AK Party, we have put our seal of success on our foreign policy in a way that is incomparable to any previous government in the history of modern Turkey.
Our foreign policy was based on both continuity and change.
Under our governments, we have provided Turkey with an independent, pro-active foreign policy that generates policies and perspectives.
At a time when crises intensified in our region, we did not refrain from dealing with crises in a resilient manner.
Our strong civilian administration based on political stability has been a great advantage in foreign policy, as in other areas.
During our governments, we institutionalized a visionary and realistic foreign policy tradition that sees no contradiction between the interests of the country and universal principles reflecting the common values of the world.
During this period, we have endeavored to ensure that Turkey, inspired by its economic strength, historical heritage and universal values, fulfills its responsibilities for a better political order in the world.
We have continued to contribute to the resolution of problems affecting the lives of communities elsewhere in the world, with particular emphasis on achieving the goals of democracy, political stability respecting human rights and economic development in neighboring regions.
We encouraged the participation and activities of civil society organizations and citizens,
We have expanded the vision of our foreign policy beyond relations between states to relations between societies and citizens.
During the period of our governments, we pioneered the development and improvement of the mechanisms of the international system to solve some chronic problems on a global and regional scale, and as an active member of the United Nations system, we pointed out the problems in this system and developed solutions.
We believe that a more prosperous, stable and peaceful world must be built in dialogue and cooperation with other countries of the world, and we consider it our moral duty to assume responsibility and leadership for this purpose.
Turkey today is not a passive spectator, it is a country that takes initiative and responsibility, not a country that follows others.
Going beyond responding to the developments in our region, Turkey has determined its positions on global issues and has become a beacon of hope for oppressed peoples who have been forgotten or excluded in an extremely turbulent period with its multidimensional foreign policy that puts people's demands for rights and law at the center, sincerely internalizing the moral and conscientious approach.
Whereas before it was a country that followed in the footsteps of other countries and could not even protect its own interests,
Today, we are a leading country in our region and in the world.
We mobilized an understanding that sees foreign policy as a strategy, not just diplomacy.
Under the leadership of our President Erdogan, the AK Party stood on the side of the just, not the powerful, and defended the ideals of justice, freedom and democracy for the oppressed and victimized of the world.
As AK Party, we aimed to make Turkey a pioneering country.
We acted on the principle of growing our power on the axis of compassion, mercy and justice.
We have adopted the principle of being a country that is integrated with the world in every field, not disconnected from the world.
Our foreign policy has been vision-based and multidimensional, and will continue to be multidimensional.
We see Turkey's European Union aspiration as a strategic goal.
However, we define our relations with the European Union as a complement, not an alternative, to our other relations.
In the new period, we will work day and night to fly the Turkish flag in every corner of the world and to pursue an effective, result-oriented and conscientious foreign policy in all basins around Turkey.
We will not abandon any brotherly people who pin their hopes on us.
We aim to increase the reputation of our country in the coming period with our policies that we implement on a global scale and regional effectiveness, and the regional and national collaborations we have established.
and we will continue to contribute more to global development.
Our foreign policy achievements are driving our economic prosperity forward, primarily by increasing trade and international direct investments
and nurtures our social development based on mutual interaction.
Our diplomatic achievements and increasing international relations provide new cooperation opportunities for our country in every field, especially in trade and finance, and this contributes significantly to the development of our country.
6.1. Effective, Equitable, Reputable Foreign Policy
Our vision of a just world has both strengthened and enriched our foreign policy.
Today, the principles of justice and solidarity, which are our historical mission, lie at the heart of Turkey's efforts to help the oppressed, the victimized, the refugees and the needy all over the world.
In this respect, the "value-oriented foreign policy" that our country insists on pursuing is the democratization of the international system, which is on the rise in the world;
It adds considerable strength to their demand for the principle of justice to dominate both politics and the economy.
a. What Have We Done?
We have adopted as a general policy to reflect the full potential of our country in our relations with the world.
From agriculture to energy, from transportation to cultural relations, from health to technical assistance, we have given an international character to the activities of all our institutions.
In addition to all relevant ministries, our public and non-governmental organizations such as TIKA, Turkish Airlines, Presidency for Turks Abroad and Related Communities, Yunus Emre Institute, Turkish Religious Foundation, AFAD, Turkish Red Crescent, Public Diplomacy Coordinatorship are very active in every region of the world in full harmony.
We have stood and are standing firm against injustice, all kinds of prejudice and Islamophobia.
We have always raised our voices against the rising anti-Islamism in Europe and other parts of the world.
We extend our hand to the victimized, oppressed and needy in every corner of the world.
As a result, Turkey's name is much more respected in many parts of the world today.
As Turkey has built its democracy and economy on solid foundations, it has also made great strides in foreign policy.
One of the greatest achievements of our 12 years in power is that we have made foreign policy a national issue.
With our effective, decisive and strategic management approach, all our official institutions now contribute to foreign policy.
We have established a close relationship between our economic achievements and our foreign policy achievements.
Our outward-looking, self-confident and productive business world both contributes to the strength of our country and strengthens its relations with the world in the areas opened to them by our foreign policy.
As a result, exports have increased and domestic and foreign investments have gained high momentum.
Our achievements in the field of foreign policy have visibly increased during our governments.
In 2015, we increased the number of missions of the Republic of Turkey abroad from 166 in 2003 to 259.
While many countries downsized their foreign missions during the global economic crisis, we continued to grow rapidly.
The world's interest in Turkey has also increased significantly.
Today, Istanbul has become the second city in the world, after New York, with the largest number of consulates general.
Turkey plays an active role in all international organizations in order to be one of the actors that have a say in determining the reshaped global order.
In this context, Turkey has been adopting a more pro-active approach in the United Nations, of which it is a founding member, in recent years, and has endeavored to make active contributions and play a constructive and conciliatory role in all issues on the UN agenda.
As the most important multilateral forum for the establishment and maintenance of international peace and security, Turkey's non-permanent membership in the UN Security Council for the period 2009-2010 has provided Turkey with additional opportunities in the international arena and within the UN.
Turkey also upgraded its cooperation with the United Nations Development Program (UNDP) to "Strategic Partnership" through the Partnership Framework Agreement signed in 2011.
We are also making significant contributions to global stability and peace through many projects and initiatives at the global level within and outside the UN.
Launched in 2005 under the leadership of Turkey and Spain, the Alliance of Civilizations (AC) was endorsed by the Secretary-General of the United Nations and has become an influential UN initiative with 142 countries and international organizations currently in the Group of Friends.
The "Mediation for Peace" initiative we have been running with Finland since 2010;
In 2011, we established and co-chaired the "Global Forum on Counterterrorism" with the United States;
Turkey's co-chairmanship (with the EU) of the Horn of Africa/Yemen Working Group under the Forum is an example of Turkey's efforts of this nature.
We assumed a leading role in UNESCO, which operates within the UN system to spread the culture of peace globally; we made our country represented in all sectors of the organization, from education to culture, science to communication.
In June 2014, we secured our country's election to UNESCO's World Heritage Committee after thirty years - a record number of votes in the history of UNESCO elections.
We established 41 Yunus Emre Turkish Cultural Centers in 33 countries with the aim of increasing Turkey's effectiveness in the cultural field by creating a global network of cultural centers.
As a result of our increasing power and effectiveness, Turkey has assumed rotating presidencies in many international and regional organizations of which it is a member, and hosted important summits of these organizations.
In the field of human rights, which is among the priority areas of our foreign policy, we have attached great importance to increasing our contribution and effectiveness in the international arena on this priority moral issue by assuming active roles in various international cooperation platforms, especially in the UN, Council of Europe and OSCE.
In our democratic reforms and regulations on fundamental human rights and freedoms, we closely followed the provisions of the European Convention on Human Rights of the Council of Europe, of which we are a founding member, and the case law of the ECtHR.
b. What will we do?
Turkey's foreign policy based on humanity, justice and democracy is both appreciated and widely accepted in the region and around the world.
We will continue to develop our foreign policy, which we have developed based on solid values with a long-term perspective, taking into account the world and country conditions in the coming period.
We are in the right place in front of history.
We will continue this stance in the coming period with a wider, more effective and greater effort.
The Turkish Cypriot people's rightful place in the international community is one of our main priorities.
We will continue to take decisive steps to strengthen the TRNC's economic infrastructure and increase its welfare.
We will continue our constructive contribution as guarantor countries and support the efforts of the United Nations for a negotiated, just and lasting settlement in Cyprus based on the fundamental constituent will of both peoples, their political equality and their co-ownership of the island.
Since 2011, we will continue to play a unifying and constructive role in North Africa and the Middle East, which is undergoing a painful transformation process, as we did during our previous government.
Turkey has supported in a principled manner the struggle of the brotherly peoples of the Middle East for human dignity and the rights and freedoms that this dignity requires.
As in the past, our Party will continue to defend the right of everyone to democracy based on the will of the people, one of the fundamental values of the Republic of Turkey.
Contributing to the stabilization of North Africa and the Middle East with the understanding that security, prosperity and peace are inseparable,
pursuing multidimensional policies based on mutual benefit with countries in the region will be among our priorities.
Opposing conflicts and exclusionary approaches based on ethnic and sectarian divisions in the Middle East,
We will promote social integration and political stability.
The basic principles of our foreign policy towards Iraq are the protection of its territorial integrity, the establishment of security and stability in the country, the strengthening of democracy, the establishment of internal peace, and the transformation of Iraq into a state that creates security and prosperity for the region by integrating with its neighbors and the international community.
Within the framework of these principles, our Party will continue to support and contribute to the establishment of an inclusive political power in the light of the serious threats and challenges facing Iraq.
One of the most important conditions for lasting stability in the Middle East is a just, comprehensive and viable solution to the Palestinian conflict.
Our active efforts for a sustainable peace in the region and Turkey's strong support for the Palestinian National Unity Government will continue in the period ahead.
Progress in the normalization process, which began after Israel apologized for the Mavi Marmara attack in March 2013, will not be possible until Israel ends its attacks on Palestine and its brutal embargo, particularly in Gaza.
The four-year conflict in Syria is high on our agenda in terms of the threats it poses to regional security and stability, in addition to the humanitarian devastation that deepens with each passing day.
As a matter of humanitarian and conscientious responsibility, the AK Party governments will continue to provide the necessary assistance to heal the wounds of Syrians and Iraqis who fled from the regime's oppression and DAESH terrorism and to stand by our Syrian and Iraqi brothers and sisters in their difficult times.
Turkey will make every effort to help Syrian refugees make their voices heard around the world and will be the voice of Syrians on all relevant international platforms.
Establishing an environment of peace and stability in the Balkans, where we have deep-rooted historical, humanitarian and cultural ties, is among the priorities of our Party.
In this context, our main objective is to contribute to the prevention of ethnic, religious and political tensions that have the potential to threaten peace and stability in the region.
We will continue to strengthen our relations with the Balkan countries by utilizing the trilateral mechanisms of Turkey-Bosnia-Herzegovina-Serbia and Turkey-Croatia-Serbia and to contribute to the establishment of an environment of social peace by making peace and stability permanent.
We will also continue our strong support to the Balkan countries' perspective of integration into Euro-Atlantic institutions.
In addition to our economic relations, we will continue to develop our good relations with the institutions and member states of the European Union, with which we are negotiating full membership.
While developing our bilateral relations, we will increase our cooperation for stability and prosperity in our nearby geographies, especially in the Balkans, North Africa and the Middle East.
Recognizing that our accession to the European Union will contribute significantly to the Union in many areas, especially economic dynamism, we will start a new process by developing relations between society and business communities beyond inter-state relations.
We aim to strengthen the positive agenda in Turkey-EU relations with new initiatives such as lifting visas, updating our customs union and deepening our financial cooperation.
In the period ahead, we will continue to develop our relations with the United States, with which our country cooperates closely in a wide geography and with which we stand in solidarity against regional and international problems, on the basis of mutual respect and trust.
The dynamics of our relations with Russia, another important partner and an important actor in terms of regional cooperation, is closely related to the vast geography in which we are located.
In the period ahead, we will endeavor to maintain and further strengthen the momentum in our relations with Russia, particularly in energy and trade.
We will continue to support efforts to find a diplomatic solution to the crisis in our neighbor and strategic partner Ukraine, which can be seen as a source of regional instability and has the potential to affect international peace and security, on the basis of Ukraine's territorial integrity and international law.
We will continue to support the dialogue efforts between Ukraine and Russia and take necessary initiatives to ensure the security and prosperity of the Crimean Tatar Turks, the original people of Crimea, and to expand and secure their rights and interests.
In line with the peaceful settlement of conflicts in the South Caucasus, our country will continue to make efforts to end the occupation of Azerbaijani territories and Nagorno-Karabakh and to end the tensions between Azerbaijan and Armenia.
In the period ahead, our steps towards normalization of relations with Armenia will continue.
We expect Armenia to adopt an inclusive, fair-memory-seeking approach that will pave the way for mutual benefit and cooperation, and to respond to our initiatives with foresight.
We believe that this is the only way to bring peace, stability and prosperity to the Caucasus.
Turkey-Azerbaijan-Georgia, Turkey-Azerbaijan-Iran and Turkey-Turkmenistan-Azerbaijan trilateral mechanisms in the Caucasus have also started to bear fruit.
Further development of our relations with the Caucasus and Central Asian countries and further strengthening of the recently established Turkic Council are among our main objectives.
Africa is one of our top priorities.
In the coming period, we will continue this approach, which aims to identify additional cooperation opportunities for Turkey around the world.
We will further increase the number of our embassies in Africa, which we have increased from 12 to 39 in the past five years.
As a result of our efforts to enable Turkish companies and businessmen to become active in the African market and increase their market share, we will strive to increase our total trade volume, which has exceeded 20 billion dollars, even higher.
We will also maintain the helping hand we have extended to this region through development assistance and humanitarian aid, particularly in Somalia.
We will continue to deepen and develop relations with the Asia-Pacific region.
We aim to carry our relations with China, Japan, the Republic of Korea, Indonesia and Malaysia, which we have raised to a strategic level in the past period, to an even higher level.
We will continue to contribute to the stability of Afghanistan and Pakistan, with whom we have historical relations of friendship and brotherhood, and we will try to strengthen our relations with India, one of the major political and economic powers of Southeast Asia.
Within the framework of our policy of reaching out to new geographies, our trade volume with Latin America and the Caribbean, another region with which we have strengthened our commercial and diplomatic ties, has increased 9-fold in the last decade and reached 8 billion dollars.
We will maintain this approach and continue to develop our relations on the basis of mutual respect and cooperation.
As a result of the active foreign policy pursued by the Justice and Development Party, Turkey today is an actor capable of effective planning at all levels, from local to national, national to regional, regional to global, and of putting forward long-term and inclusive perspectives, and of asserting its growing capabilities and capabilities.
We will further strengthen this position in the coming period.
We will strengthen the institutional structure in the field of foreign economic relations and redefine the powers and responsibilities of institutions operating in this field.
In cooperation with civil society, we will strengthen our educational and cultural activities abroad in a much more systematic way.
6.2. Contribution to the Global Development Agenda and Humanitarian Diplomacy
As the Justice and Development Party, we want to increase prosperity not only for our own nation, but for all humanity.
We support the fight against hunger, poverty, conflicts, disasters and other global challenges, starting with our immediate neighborhood, regardless of race, religion, language or origin.
With this understanding, we consider it among the main priorities of our foreign policy to help all people, especially those living in the least developed and underdeveloped countries, who strive for a share of global prosperity, and to share our development experience with them.
a. What Have We Done?
As AK Party, we see foreign policy as one of the most important building blocks of our goal of a strong and respected Turkey.
While building a stable and growing Turkey in the economy, we are also taking historic steps towards democratization, human rights and establishing a credible foreign policy.
We have made and continue to make significant contributions to the global development and humanitarian diplomacy agenda, which is a core part of our foreign policy.
We increased the number of TIKA's Program Coordination Offices (PCOs) from 12 in 2002 to 49 in 47 countries as of 2015.
We increased the number of countries where TIKA operates from 20 in 2002 to 140 in 2015.
We have significantly increased our official development assistance.
We increased our Official Development Assistance (ODA) from USD 85 million in 2002 to USD 3.5 billion by the end of 2014.
In addition to public sector aid activities, we increased Total Development Assistance (TDA) to $6 billion in 2014, including foreign investments by the private sector and the activities of civil society organizations.
We provide "temporary protection" to Syrians fleeing war and oppression within the framework of international law.
We have been implementing an "open door" policy for Syrians since April 2011.
Today, the number of Syrian refugees we host in our country has exceeded 2 million. Syrians in our country benefit from all basic aid and health services.
In fact, our country has not received the expected support from economically developed countries and international institutions on the issue of refugees, for which the entire international community should assume responsibility.
We also provided basic aid and health services to 200,000 Iraqis, including 40,000 Yazidis, who took refuge in our country from Iraq as a result of DAESH attacks.
Somalia is one of the best examples of the humanitarian diplomacy we are pursuing.
The visit of our President when he was Prime Minister was a milestone for Somalia's recovery and drew the attention of the international community to the region.
b. What will we do?
In the coming period, we will give our development cooperation policy a strategic framework.
By strengthening our financial, human and institutional capacity and legal infrastructure for development cooperation, we will ensure that these opportunities are used to increase our social welfare.
We will continue to work towards raising awareness of international cooperation in Turkey and strengthening cultural cooperation between Turkey and partner countries.
We will implement our "Priority Transformation Program on Enhancing International Cooperation for Development" in order to improve the institutional and human capacity of public institutions, private sector and NGOs in the field of international cooperation, raise the awareness of national and international public opinion, and make Turkey a regional hub for international development cooperation organizations.
Under the program, we will prepare the Basic Policy and Strategy Document on Development Cooperation and the Foreign Aid Law.
We will prepare a comprehensive review of Turkey's development cooperation.
We will accredit civil society organizations operating in the field of development cooperation and support them to become international centers.
We will launch "Knowledge and Experience Sharing Programs" in specific areas where Turkey has expertise.
We will support international mobility and cooperation in education.
We will provide trainings to raise global awareness in primary and secondary education.
We will prepare a Communication Strategy with the Global Community.
We will establish international development cooperation research centers and graduate programs at universities.
We will launch a program on the effectiveness of foreign language education in educational institutions.
We will establish international student offices in universities and improve legislation for international students.
We will increase scholarship opportunities for students and academics from LDCs in our universities in priority areas of development need.
We will strengthen the external relations units of public institutions in terms of budget, human resources and institutional capacity.
We will create "Foreign Relations Specialist" positions in public institutions.
We will increase the number of Turkish expert staff in international organizations.
We will review the specialized units in missions abroad and ensure that appointments to these units are based on merit.
We will review and strengthen Turkey's emergency and humanitarian assistance capacity.
Within the framework of our chairmanship of the Global Forum on Migration and Development, we will host the Annual Summit on Migration and Development in October 2015.
6.3. Regional and International Cooperation
As a respected member of the international community, it is one of the most important priorities of our Party in foreign policy to strengthen cooperation in the region and globally with the perspective of increasing both human development and economic welfare.
As AK Party, we believe that the geographical and cultural heritage we inherited from the past should be considered as a strong ground for our foreign policy.
We aim to increase the effectiveness of our country in multinational platforms, especially in structures such as the European Union and the Organization of Islamic Cooperation.
By taking an active role in important mechanisms such as the UN and the G-20, we strongly put forward our country's priorities and perspective on global issues.
a. What Have We Done?
Since we came to power in 2002, we have been conducting a constructive diplomacy that aims to mobilize regional cooperation dynamics and effectively use multilateral diplomacy tools.
To date, we have implemented the High-Level Strategic Cooperation Council (HLSC) mechanism, a unique cooperation development model, with a total of 19 countries.
We signed 431 documents with these countries in 36 joint cabinet meetings held at the level of Heads of State/Government.
As a result of our foreign policy successes and multilateral relations, we diversified our foreign trade markets and achieved significant increases in our exports and international investments.
From the perspective of facilitating our trade relations, we have abolished visa practices or provided visa facilities with many countries.
We have developed solutions to the problems faced by our companies in the fields of transportation and logistics and have worked to create alternative transportation corridors.
As a result of our efforts, our relations with countries in the Middle East and North Africa, Central Asia and the Caucasus, South Eastern Europe and the Black Sea region are gradually developing.
In the 19-country Middle East and North Africa basin, we increased our exports nine-fold from $5.2 billion to $45.1 billion.
Our total trade volume with this basin has increased from 8 billion dollars to 69 billion dollars.
The total value of Turkish contractors' projects in the Middle East alone reached 78.6 billion dollars by the end of March 2015.
From 2005 to the end of 2014, we increased our exports to European countries excluding the EU from 14.3 billion dollars to 34 billion dollars.
We have increased our total trade volume in this basin from 55 billion dollars to 112 billion dollars.
While developing our trade and political relations with other regions, we have not neglected our European Union membership perspective, which we see as a strategic goal.
We considered the accession negotiations with the EU as an important trigger for our reform process.
The legal and administrative arrangements we have realized in this context are the best examples of our government's determined stance on political reforms.
We started accession negotiations to the European Union in 2005.
In this context, 14 out of 35 chapters have been opened for negotiations.
Many negotiating chapters were ready to be opened or temporarily closed, but progress was blocked by internal EU issues and the political considerations of some member states.
Our government continued to pursue with determination the reforms it deemed important for our people and continued its efforts to build a positive agenda with the EU.
As a concrete example of this, in 2013 we took a historic step and officially launched the Visa Waiver Dialogue, which will allow our citizens to travel visa-free to Schengen countries within 3-3.5 years.
We have developed many regional initiatives within the framework of our country's approach to create a belt of peace, stability and prosperity in the geography at its center;
The Iraq Neighboring Countries Process (2003-2008), which we launched in January 2003 against the risk of war and demonstrated a common will for regional stability,
The Turkey-Afghanistan-Pakistan Trilateral Summit Process (since 2007), which we initiated to contribute to building mutual trust,
Turkey-Bosnia and Herzegovina-Serbia Trilateral Cooperation Mechanism (since 2009), which we launched to consolidate peace, stability and prosperity in Bosnia and Herzegovina and to contribute to the stabilization environment in the Balkans,
Turkey-Bosnia-Herzegovina-Croatia Trilateral Cooperation Mechanism (since 2010), which we launched to contribute to good neighborliness and regional cooperation in the Balkans,
Istanbul Process (since 2011) with the participation of 14 regional countries, external supporters, national and international organizations to contribute to peace and stability in Afghanistan and the wider region,
Turkey-Iran-Azerbaijan Trilateral Mechanism established to enhance cooperation in addressing regional issues (since 2011),
Turkey-Georgia-Azerbaijan Trilateral Mechanism (since 2012), which aims to establish comprehensive cooperation in the South Caucasus,
Turkey-Azerbaijan-Turkmenistan Trilateral Mechanism (since 2014), launched to further develop relations, including cooperation in energy and transportation,
The Friends of the Syrian People Group, which Turkey led in 2012 to promote efforts to resolve the conflict in line with the legitimate aspirations of the Syrian people,
The Trilateral Solidarity in Peacebuilding process (since 2013), initiated with Sweden and Brazil to exchange views in a flexible, non-institutionalized format on issues on the international agenda,
Within the framework of multilateral cooperation efforts within the Turkic world, the Parliamentary Assembly of Turkic Speaking States (TURKPA) was established in 2008 and the Cooperation Council of Turkic Speaking States (Turkic Council) in 2009.
As a reflection of the increasing weight of our country, we have assumed rotating presidencies in many international and regional organizations of which we are a member and hosted important summits of these organizations.
In recent years, our relations with Islamic countries have gained significant momentum.
The share of Islamic countries in our exports increased rapidly, reaching 32 percent in 2014.
In the 2002-2014 period, we significantly increased the effectiveness of the Standing Committee for Economic and Commercial Cooperation among Islamic Countries (COMCEC).
In 2004, we organized an economic conference to mark the 20th anniversary of the COMCEC and in 2009, we organized the COMCEC Economic Summit to mark its 25th anniversary.
In 2014, we celebrated the 30th anniversary of the COMCEC by organizing a series of side events.
In 2012, the COMCEC Strategy, designed for the first time exclusively as a vision document for the COMCEC, was adopted at the 4th Extraordinary Islamic Summit.
The 6 working groups established with the strategy aim to share knowledge and experience, build a consensus and converge policies among member countries.
Through the COMCEC Project Financing mechanism, project support was provided to 8 member countries and OIC organizations in 2014.
Directly and indirectly, 22 Member States have benefited from these projects.
Again in 2015, project support is provided to 14 countries and OIC organizations.
Within the scope of these projects, 24 member states will benefit directly or indirectly.
The necessary conditions for the realization of the Preferential Trade System among the OIC Member Countries (TPS-OIC), one of the most important projects of the COMCEC for increasing intra-OIC trade, were completed by the end of 2014.
The Standards and Metrology Institute for Islamic Countries (SMIIC), the establishment of which was decided under the umbrella of COMCEC, started its activities in 2010 in Istanbul, hosted by Turkey.
Currently, 32 out of 57 OIC members have joined SMIIC.
The OIC Member States Stock Exchanges Forum was established in 2005.
The secretariat services of the Forum are provided by Borsa Istanbul and 50 companies from 19 OIC member countries are included in the OIC/ISEDAK index, which is a concrete output.
The 4th United Nations Conference on the Least Developed Countries (LDCs) was hosted by Turkey in Istanbul in 2011.
By 2020, the Istanbul Action Program, which includes activities to be implemented for the development of LDCs, was adopted.
A comprehensive Economic and Technical Cooperation Package for LDCs was announced.
The Package envisages an annual allocation of $200 million, starting in 2012, for economic and technical cooperation programs and projects for LDCs.
Our development assistance to LDCs has exceeded our commitments in this package, with projects for LDCs totaling $286 million and $210 million in 2012 and 2013, respectively.
We attach great importance to the G-20, which has recently grown in influence and become one of the building blocks of global economic governance.
Turkey was elected to the G-20 presidency, first as part of the G-20 Troika and then assumed the G-20 presidency for a one-year term at the end of 2014.
Our quota at the IMF was increased and Turkey was given the position of Executive Director for the first time.
Thus, our country has moved from being a country implementing IMF programs to being a decision-making country in the IMF.
Similarly, Turkey's voting power increased from 0.53 percent to 1.08 percent as a result of the capital increase within the scope of the reform efforts initiated in 2008 to improve its representation and participation in the World Bank.
b. What We Will Do
Deepening our relations with Europe and the Transatlantic institutions, which constitute the main anchor of our foreign policy in terms of politics, economy and defense, will continue to be one of our top priorities, as it was in our previous governments.
We remain determined to further advance our country's strategic goal of membership of the European Union, a reform process that will contribute to raising the living standards of our people.
We will continue our efforts to overcome politically-induced bottlenecks in the EU accession process and to revitalize accession negotiations by opening new chapters.
The Visa Exemption Dialogue process, which was initiated in 2013 as a result of our recent intensive contacts with the EU Commission in a mutually constructive manner to find a mutually acceptable solution on visa exemption, will be completed.
Continuation of EU accession negotiations and harmonization with the acquis, effective utilization of pre-accession financial assistance and implementation of Turkey's new EU communication strategy will be among our priority objectives.
In addition to the EU, we will continue to consolidate and deepen our relations with regions that were considered distant geographies in the past.
Our country is peace on a global scale,
will actively contribute and participate in efforts to contribute to stability, cultural cohesion and prosperity.
We will continue to support efforts to further strengthen the military and political effectiveness of NATO, which is at the center of our security and defense policy.
In the coming period, we aim to initiate studies and negotiations on the addition of "trade in services and investment" chapters to the existing FTAs signed between Turkey and the countries in the region.
We will complete the necessary analysis for new FTAs, including provisions on trade in services and investments.
We will enact a law specific to the COMCEC in order to carry out the Secretariat services of the COMCEC more effectively.
We will continue to play a leading role in the realization of the Preferential Trade System among OIC Member Countries (TPS-OIC), an important COMCEC project.
Based on our approach to create a belt of prosperity and stability in our immediate neighborhood, we will continue to take steps to leave behind problems and find common solutions with all countries, especially our neighbors.
We will increase the number of diplomatic missions around the world, especially in Africa.
We will continue to lead initiatives such as the "Alliance of Civilizations" and "Mediation for Peace", which we have played an important role in launching at the UN.
As part of our new visionary foreign policy, Turkey will host the OIC Summit in 2016.
As of December 1, 2014, we will use our G-20 Presidency as an opportunity for our country to contribute to the issues on the global agenda and increase our visibility.
In this framework, we will organize the G-20 Leaders Summit in Antalya on November 15-16, 2015.
During our Presidency, we will organize 60 high-level international meetings, including 10 Ministerial-level meetings, in different cities of our country throughout the year.
In 2016, we will host a Review Conference as a follow-up to the UN Fourth Summit of the Least Developed Countries, which we hosted in Istanbul in 2011.
In this way, we will ensure that the importance we attach to the Least Developed Countries in our foreign policy is made visible in the international arena.
In the coming period, we will also consolidate our place in the European architecture by joining the group of countries that contribute the most to the budget of the Council of Europe.
We envisage increasing the number of our deputies in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe (PACE) from 12 to 18, making Turkish one of the working languages of PACE and becoming a party to the conventions drafted within the Council of Europe, especially those concerning fundamental rights and freedoms.
With the new "Country Group Agreement" signed on October 10, 2014, Turkey will assume the role of Acting Executive Director between 2014-2016 and Executive Director between 2020-2024 at the World Bank.
Thus, for the first time under our government, our country will take part in the Board of Executive Directors of the World Bank after the International Monetary Fund (IMF).
Adopting the protection and promotion of human rights as one of its priority political goals, our Government will continue to play an active role in bringing human rights violations in various countries to the attention of the world public opinion and in adopting resolutions on these violations in international platforms, especially in the UN.
As a respected member of the international community, we envisage the protection of human rights, the promotion of democracy and the rule of law in our country and in the world, and the continuation of constructive cooperation with all relevant institutions and organizations in the field of human rights.
6.4. Our Citizens Living Abroad and Related Communities
As AK Party, we approach our people living abroad with the understanding of "State based on service to the nation".
One of the main elements of our foreign policy is to protect the interests of our citizens and related communities abroad by embracing all their differences, to develop their language and cultural background, and to provide our services abroad in a permanent and healthy manner.
With this approach, we adopt to stand by our citizens abroad and our brothers and sisters living in different countries as related communities, not only when they are in trouble, but always, and to develop new cultural and economic initiatives together with them.
a. What Have We Done?
Approaches towards our citizens living abroad started to change after the 80s, but no holistic policies were developed until the AK Party came to power.
With the economic and political stability in our country, a new national solidarity emerged in political understanding and institutions, and as a result of this approach, which was soon echoed abroad, discriminatory policies and regulations against our people living abroad were abolished in the process.
As AK Party, we embrace all the differences of our society abroad and develop language and cultural accumulation;
to be able to take our services abroad in a permanent and healthy way;
We work to protect the interests of our country and our citizens living abroad.
During our ruling period, we have achieved a visible transformation in policies towards our citizens abroad and realized important practices.
We established the "Presidency for Turks Abroad and Related Communities" and started to deal more closely with the problems of Turkish citizens living abroad and to provide financial support for their activities.
We enabled our citizens residing abroad to vote in their countries of residence for the first time in the 2014 presidential elections.
Thus, in addition to fulfilling a democratic and constitutional right, we have taken an important step in the context of belonging to the motherland.
We eliminated the grievances of approximately 750 thousand blue card holders and protected the rights of our citizens in countries that do not accept dual citizenship.
We have carried out important work in the context of cognates, related communities and international students.
We created the International Student Strategy Document.
In 2011, we held 50th anniversary meetings in Germany and then in other countries to mark the 50th anniversary of the labor migration to Germany, which started in 1961 within the framework of the Labor Agreements.
In addition to alumni inventory research studies, we organized alumni meetings in 20 countries.
For cultural support, we prepare book sets and lists for our citizens living abroad.
Established in 2009, Yunus Emre Enstitüsü has been teaching Turkish in cultural centers in more than 30 countries, and we have promoted the Turkish culture and art world through various activities.
From Colombia to Djibouti, from Zambia to Japan, from Portugal to Australia, from Colombia to Djibouti, from Zambia to Japan, from Portugal to Australia, in almost every corner of the world, our missions abroad have organized cultural and academic events to promote our traditional values, our contemporary art and our rich and deep-rooted culture.
In this context, in 2014 alone, we organized more than 300 events in nearly 100 foreign missions.
We have contributed to the establishment of relations and interaction between the Turkish community and peoples in different geographies.
By combining the scholarships we provide to foreign students under the title of "Turkey Scholarships", we have enabled more students from more countries to come to our country and receive undergraduate, graduate and doctoral education.
Today, we provide scholarships to 15 thousand students from 150 countries at our universities.
The fact that 82,000 applications from 152 countries were received for Turkey scholarships in 2014 shows that Turkey is becoming a center of attraction in the field of higher education not only in its region but also around the world.
While 2,241 projects were carried out within the scope of TIKA activities between 1992-2002, we carried out more than 13 thousand projects between 2002-2014.
Between 2002 and 2014, we provided a total of 8.9 billion TL in aid to TRNC.
With an investment amount of 1.3 billion TL, we are solving the TRNC's 50-year water need by transporting 75 million cubic meters of water per year under the sea.
We will also realize a project to bring electricity to the TRNC via an undersea cable.
In the context of cognates and relatives, the Project on Palestinian Documents in the Ottoman Archives, Crimean Studies, Somali Diaspora Studies, Turkic Council Diaspora Cooperation Program, TÖMER Training for Syrians and Meskhetian Turks Studies are ongoing.
b. What will we do?
As AK Party, we consider it among our main priorities to ensure the coordination of the services carried out by different institutions for our citizens living abroad within the framework of a holistic strategy.
Our Party supports the integration of our citizens living abroad, their cognates and relatives, into the society they live in and their active participation in economic, social and political life.
However, we will pay utmost attention to the preservation of their cultural identity and continue to provide the necessary support against assimilation policies.
In the coming period, in this context, we will ensure that our citizens living abroad protect their cultural belonging,
NGOs to be made more effective,
to develop capacities for active participation in society
and support the strengthening of citizenship rights.
We will carry out the necessary work within the framework of our bilateral agreements so that pensioners abroad who retire by borrowing from Turkey can work part-time in their countries of residence.
For our retired citizens, we are increasing the stay period of the vehicles they bring to Turkey to 2 years.
As we bring the ballot boxes to our citizens living abroad, we will also provide them with the right to be elected.
When our homesick citizens want to come to Turkey with their families, we will provide a 20 percent discount on THY flights after November 1.
We have started working to reduce the cost of foreign currency military service from 6,000 Euros to 1000 Euros.
In order to support our families living abroad, we said that we would provide 300 TL for the first child, 400 TL for the second, and 600 TL for the third and subsequent children, and on May 15, 2015, we launched this practice, which you also benefited from.
To date, we have provided maternity assistance to mothers for a total of 263,845 children.
We will carry out the necessary work to deposit these aids into their accounts in the countries where they are located.
Within the framework of the "Research Support Scholarships for Citizens Abroad" program, we provide monthly scholarships of $650 for master's students, $1000 for doctoral students and $1300 for post-doctoral students.
We are working to ensure that undergraduate students also benefit from the scholarships.
We continue to support the projects of our NGOs abroad.
The chaplain and
we will increase the number of teachers.
We will carry out a comprehensive work to facilitate the recognition and enforcement cases so that the legal processes you have experienced here can also produce judgments and results in our country.
We have started working to reduce passport fees to 100 Euros for adults.
We are making arrangements for you to use your mobile devices in Turkey without paying a fee (4 months).
We will extend the period of use in Turkey of foreign-registered vehicles for personal use of our citizens living abroad to 2 years.
We will make the necessary legal arrangements to finalize the recognition and enforcement cases of our citizens living abroad in a time that will not victimize them.
We will complete the necessary work to ensure that vocational diplomas obtained abroad are recognized as equivalent to Vocational High School diplomas in Turkey and that the vocational diplomas and mastership certificates obtained by our citizens abroad in their countries of residence are recognized as equivalent to the diplomas earned in Turkey.
We will take the necessary steps to open new consulates general in the regions where they are needed and to renovate and expand the buildings of our consulates general that are insufficient.
We will finalize the work on the assignment of teachers living in those countries to educational institutions and schools abroad and increase the number of teachers abroad.
We will support the activities of non-governmental organizations abroad for the widespread provision of mother tongue education and the protection of cultural identities, provide trainers and material support for this purpose, and increase the project support budget to meet the needs.
We will expand cultural excursion and camping programs for young people living abroad to experience Turkey's history and culture first-hand.
We will build the capacity of religious services abroad, reach out to the whole community and the NGOs that represent them, support local religious education institutions and encourage decentralization.
We will make legal arrangements for universities to open campuses abroad, and we
will ensure that State Universities provide services in countries where our citizens live in large numbers.
We will encourage TUBITAK, universities and research centers to conduct research on the issues and agendas of our diaspora in social, economic, cultural, political, health, legal and other related fields.
We will increase university quotas for young people who want to study in Turkey.
We will create a communication network, database and catalog to keep the relations of our citizens with postgraduate education abroad with our country alive.
We will organize training and seminar programs for experts living abroad, such as the Meeting of Jurists and Educators Conference, on the problems they face in their countries of residence and Turkey and their solutions.
Supporting the activities of civil society organizations abroad
We will increase the project support budget for the preservation of the language and cultural assets of Turks Abroad.
In countries where there are Turks living abroad, we will encourage the establishment of schools that include kindergarten and secondary education levels.
We will support the establishment and development of Diaspora Research Institutes within universities.
We will promote programs against possible integration problems of our citizens living abroad in case they settle in our country.
In particular, we will take new steps to improve our existing services to help new generations preserve Turkish and our culture.
We will continue to take initiatives before the relevant countries in order to eliminate the problems experienced in family reunification, to increase inter-communal relations and to keep family values alive.
We will act together with the relevant countries in the fight against discrimination, racism, xenophobia and Islamophobia, which pose a great threat to all humanity, and we will increase our efforts to protect human values, which are also closely related to our people abroad.
Updating cultural agreements in all Western European countries with a significant population of Turkish origin in the coming period;
We will ensure that there are agreements with countries like Denmark and Austria with which there are no agreements.
Within the framework of renewed cultural agreements, we will ensure that Yunus Emre Institutes are established more effectively around the world.
We will support the preparation and implementation of non-formal language and cultural trainings through NGOs and foundations.
We will develop special programs especially for young people in order to raise outstanding individuals among our citizens abroad who will stand out in the cultural field in the country they live in.
We will conduct Leadership Academy, Bureaucracy Academy, Local Governments Academy, Civil Society Academy and Media Academy programs in order to improve our relations with cognates and relatives.
We aim to establish a "Center for Overseas Educational Institutions" and develop a "Quality Audit Standard for Overseas Educational Institutions" in order to bring certain standards to the trainings offered in the context of developing Turkish language and culture abroad.
In order to increase cooperation and interaction with our cultural geography, we will organize thematic meetings for the establishment and development of multilateral relations with the Middle East, Central Asia, Caucasus, Balkans and Africa, with Turkey at the center.
We will organize a Think Tanks Cooperation Program in order to increase communication and cooperation between think tanks operating in the Balkans, the Middle East and Central Asia and think tanks in Turkey, and to enable these think tanks to get to know the relevant institutions and organizations of our country closely.
With the international dormitories platform and student exchange programs we have developed, both suitable accommodation opportunities will be utilized and joint programs will be organized in different fields, especially education and cultural interaction.
In 2015, we will launch the "On-Site Scholarship Scheme" in order to encourage students belonging to cognate communities to pursue higher education in their countries.
We aim to implement the program primarily in the Balkan countries where our compatriots are concentrated, and especially in the countries where Meskhetian Turks and Turkmens live.
Through the representative offices of the Ministry of Family and Social Policies abroad, we will support our citizens living in the relevant countries to use their social rights more effectively in those countries.
Our citizens living abroad will also benefit from the practices we have recently announced such as birth gifts, dowry accounts and housing support accounts.
TOWARDS THE NOVEMBER 1 ELECTIONS...
With the AK Party coming to power in November 2002, a new era began in our country.
This period created a solid political ground for the long-awaited changes and transformations of our nation, and reunited and integrated the state and the nation.
The new Turkey is human-centered,
expanded areas of freedom,
where taboos are broken and bans are lifted,
more democratic,
It refers to a period focused on quality in all areas.
The power source of the Second Breakthrough is our people and our geography.
We will work harder, we will do newer and more qualified work.
As always, we will not disappoint the trust of our nation.
AK Party, together with our nation, is ready for a new period of breakthrough in trust and stability.
The November 1 elections will be an important milestone for the reforms and transformations that have been going on for 13 years to be taken to a higher level.
The November 1 elections are the election of the AK Party, a movement of the nation, to take stronger and stronger steps into the future together with our entire nation.
With the November 1 elections, the process of building the New Turkey will enter a new phase.
In this period, Turkey will march with greater determination towards its goal of becoming a strong, democratic, prosperous and respected country.
The vision of a qualified, self-confident, world-class New Turkey will rise on the solid foundations laid in the last 13 years.
New Turkey means a great balance between quantity and quality, indigenousness and openness to the world, past and future, technique and aesthetics, modernity and tradition, development and civilization.
In the new Turkey, our people will be equipped with the most advanced technologies, knowledge and skills.
The quality of curricula, teachers and teaching will improve.
In the new Turkey, R&D investments will be prioritized to increase our competitiveness and to produce high value-added products,
every work will be done on a world scale, at world standards.
In the new Turkey, the politics of service will go hand in hand with the politics of civilization, and an approach that puts human beings at the center will prevail in every field.
In the new Turkey, freedoms and responsibilities, rights and duties will be side by side.
New Turkey will once again become the civilization center of the world with responsible and productive young people whose belonging to civilization and fraternity is strengthened.
In the new Turkey, citizenship and brotherhood, historicity and destiny will go hand in hand.
The new Turkey will be a country of people who are open to each other and to the world with its tolerance, pluralism and as the inheritor of a great civilization.
The new Turkey will be a country of people who combine tradition with the future.
New Turkey will be a country of people who integrate knowledge with consciousness and consciousness with wisdom.
New Turkey will be a country of people who adorn knowledge with wisdom and labor with virtue.
We are tomorrow's travelers.
We are the caravan of the great future.
We will never tire, rest or stop on the road to a new Turkey.
No one can stop this nation and us from this march.
AK Party has made history in the last 13 years.
He will continue to write in the Second Breakthrough period.
AK Party once again on November 1st on the way to a Great and Stable Turkey;
Because the AK Party is integrated with the values and history of our people.
Because AK Party is the name of political and economic stability in a democratic environment in Turkey.
Because the AK Party is a party that keeps its promises and inspires confidence with its realistic policies.
Because AK Party has proven itself with its 13 years of governance performance. Because AK Party has a strong leadership that attaches importance to consultation.
Because the AK Party has a strong experience in governance.
Because AK Party is the address of rich and competent cadres.
Because AK Party is visionary and change-oriented.
Because the AK Party is a libertarian party that respects different lifestyles.
Because AK Party is the party of Turkey that exists from East to West, North to South.
Because the AK Party is a party with the experience that a wider geography takes as a model.
Because AK Party is the address of the will of the nation against the centers of tutelage.
Because the AK Party has taken care of the trust given to it by the people.
Because the AK Party is the party that has put the concept of social state from theory into practice.
Because the AK Party has brought dignity to our country, self-confidence and prestige to our people.
Because with all these features, the AK Party is a success story that those who try to be an alternative to it cannot reach.
All together for a strong support for the AK Party and the second breakthrough period of the new Turkey.
As always, hand in hand and heart to heart with our nation...
On November 1st, to the polls...
