PREFACE
Republican Peasant .... Since its foundation, the Republican Peasant Party has fought for the advancement of the Turkish nation and its share of the homeland and humanity in a perfect and phenomenal order.
Our Party has taken into consideration the events that show the ways in which the rights and freedoms of citizens are violated and how real democracy is undermined, and has made it our
goal to establish institutions and take measures that will bring peace to citizens and lead them to prosperity and happiness.
On May 27, 1960, the political turmoil of our country came to an end and a Constitution was adopted that protected and guaranteed the rights and freedoms of citizens, thereby preventing those who held state power from acting as they wished.
Our Party is justifiably proud to see the ideas and principles it has defended for years being enshrined in the Constitution
and feels the satisfaction of the service it has rendered to the nation.
It is not enough that these rights and freedoms are legally recognized.
However, these rights and freedoms gain vitality in proportion to the strength of the citizens' unwavering conviction and determination to protect them.
In this way, we consider it our duty to be the honorable guardians of the institutions that guarantee the fundamental rights and freedoms for which we have fought for many years.
Humanity is on the path of wanting to be free and to enjoy all the care and blessings bestowed by its Creator.
The limited and finite resources of today's world must be matched by an ever-increasing population and their limitless needs.
In this respect, it is seen that a new world and humanity view has started to dominate the whole community of nations, leaving no doubt that sooner or later this view will spread.
Until the first half of the 20th century, the behavior of certain local and clannish communities (nations) in their efforts to maintain their existence and happiness and the means they used to achieve their goals (systems, mere dectrmer views) no longer satisfy today's humanity.
Today's understanding, which pits people and communities against each other, is far from being achieved.
As humanity seeks to benefit from the blessings bestowed upon it within the bounds of right and justice, it seeks a new basis for the systems and possibilities of tomorrow, which should be the basis of the family and the larger community.
This leaves no doubt that in a community of people who are born free, who work, who succeed and who want to enjoy all rights like everyone else, the means to achieve this goal must be based on a study and calculation in accordance with long-term plans and programs.
In the light of these brief and general views, we believe that it is the most appropriate way to deal with the Turkish nation's cases and to give it a direction.
Turkey is one of the economically backward nations, it is far behind in terms of knowledge and ideas compared to modern nations.
In this respect, on the one hand, the elimination of poverty in the country,
On the other hand, raising the scientific and intellectual level should be one of the main goals.
We are convinced that the possibilities of development and progress in Turkey, which has become like this under the neglect of centuries and the uninformed guidance of the recent past, will no longer be possible within the framework of a set of systems, which are located in the frozen cubes of the 19th century and whose transfer to each other is very western, at a time when the nations of the world are advancing with giant steps and a great change of mentality is taking place.
There is no doubt that this intellectual evolution, which has been taking place and practiced since the past, has given invaluable insights and materials to the new dimension of social life.
In this respect, those who think as we do are not pursuing efforts aimed at pursuing the interests of this or that class and caste, but are working towards the liberation of the Turkish nation from poverty and misery together.
In other words, our Party, in terms of its world view and direction, is not based on class interests in the development of the country,
who believes in and relies on truth and justice,
It sees itself as an organization that will lay the foundations of a new order based on work and that will ensure that everyone will benefit according to their ability, merit and efficiency.
and accepts the notion of a social state within this framework.
Main Principles
Article 1) The aim of the Republican Peasant Nation Party is to establish a state system in Turkey that will make human rights dominant and provide them with reliable guarantees. -
The Party aims to achieve this goal based on a) the principles of freedom, security, equality and justice,
b) the principles of national sovereignty and a secular republic,
c) democratic democratic law based on the example of the West,
d) He is convinced that nationalism can only be achieved through sincere commitment.
Article 2) The Party considers it its duty to follow only legitimate and legal paths in all its activities.
This duty does not imply the renunciation of criticizing laws that are not in accordance with the needs and that restrict and abrogate the natural rights and freedoms of the individual, and of trying to reform and amend them.
Article 3) The Party considers the state to be a permanent and civilized necessity, born out of the genuine desire and need of people to live in community and peace and to help each other.
The purpose of the state is freedom,
Safety
and not to hinder the free formation and development of the human personality, which must develop in the richest variety,
to reconcile personal activities for the people and with the consent of the people
and to ensure justice.
Therefore, it is not permissible to separate the rights of the individual from the rights of the community and to treat them as inferior to it, and not to compensate individuals for the damage they may suffer in the public interest.
We want procedures that protect the vital interests of the individual as well as the community.
Article 4) The Party recognizes justice as an unshakeable and unshakable will to give everyone his due.
This nature necessitates a superior notion of right which is not the creation of the state, but which precedes and guides the state and limits its powers
. Every normal human being carries in his soul the meaning of this right and justice.
For us, right is not only a principle of practical appreciation, but a moral goal, an element of faith.
We believe in justice and fairness.
Article 5) The Party recognizes the great role of beliefs, morals, traditions, customs and traditions in the formation of the social order.
They do not change often.
And they remain outside the sphere of state influence.
Article 6) The Party aims to destroy the independence and territorial integrity of the country.
and to violate human rights.
It considers the activities of individuals and associations that serve as tools for foreign or foreign political parties as illegitimate.
In this context, it considers it necessary to take legal protection measures against anarchists who deny the fundamental rights of the state and statesmen, and communists who deny the rights to personal and political freedom.
Article 7) Nationalism is one of the principles of our Party.
In our view, the most important element of the concept of nation is a kind of unity of thought and feeling, which constitutes the national conscience and implies a belief in a common life and future.
We recognize the great role of language unity in the formation of national consciousness.
The Party recognizes every person who says "I am a Turk..." and considers himself/herself a Turk as a Turk.
It believes in the ancient and honorable past of Turkishness and its future full of great hope.
It considers it a national duty to implement a program that is conducive to the strengthening of national consciousness in educational and training institutions;
and considers it necessary to try to raise the youth with this belief even outside of school.
Article 8) Our Party, which considers the family institution as the foundation of the society and a high spiritual value, considers it a condition of the existence of the society to fight against the bad trends that threaten it and to take all kinds of measures to strengthen family ties.
Article 9) The youth, who are the foundation and future of the country.
Our Party, which considers it a goal to raise citizens with high moral qualities and personalities and with a nationalist attitude and mentality,
It is determined to provide them with all kinds of assistance and facilities during their training period, to give them the value they deserve in life and to prepare them for wide opportunities for development, without party considerations.
Article 10) The Party recognizes the separation of state and religion.
It recognizes the freedom of conscience and belief, and the right of everyone to worship as he wishes and in any way he wishes.
Religion and freedom of religion and belief are recognized as other rights and freedoms.
He thinks that the clergy should be educated at a high level and their menus .... should be adequate.
Article 11) The Party does not confer any exclusive right, privilege or title of nobility on any individual, group or internal class.
Article 12) The Party is committed to the unfair restriction of the right to ownership and disposition.
and opposes all regimes that favor the management of wealth by the State.
The Party only approves expropriations in the name of public interest on condition that the value of the expropriation is paid in advance, as determined by the courts.
The individual whose property has been taken away in this way should have the right to appeal to the court on the grounds that there is no public interest in the case and that his right to property has been unnecessarily violated.
Article 13) Our Party, which considers politics as an activity based on ethical principles to ensure the welfare and happiness of the nation,
considers the fight against the crippled and harmful mentality that considers acts that do not comply with these principles as permissible in politics as one of its main goals.
Article 14) The Party wants every citizen to grow up with a Humanitarian culture that ensures peace and security for the world,
It considers the development of human solidarity, good neighborliness, loyalty to treaties, restraint and compassion for all human beings to be fundamental to the prosperity and well-being of our nation and the family of nations.
Article 15) The Party considers it one of its main objectives to ensure that all activities aimed at ensuring the welfare and happiness of the nation are based on the principles of morality and to fight against movements that do not comply with this principle.
Himaya, favoritism, injustice, bribery, sur abuse
and to fight black marketeering as a national obligation.
It calls for the avoidance of all forms of waste in individual, family and state life
, and rejects investments in vanity that are not worthwhile.
Article 16) ...., which is in a very economically backward situation, on the one hand, the increasing population and their needs
other .... kinds of production must be increased
..... .... ......... agricultural,
industrial commercial
and mail works and all kinds of .................. ............. opinions and their public..................................
in the implementation of the law.
In this context, it considers it essential to regulate and control investments in the proportions and measures required by a stable and balanced economic system.
Article 17) In addition to agricultural development, the Party is committed to the possibilities and conditions offered by the country.
industrial development (including underground wealth and seafood) will be at least as important and fundamental to future wealth and prosperity.
Article 18) Party within the concept of social state,
in the field of economy to increase national income
individual enterprise and individual ownership,
legitimate competition,
freely regulated in domestic and foreign markets and
favors a free exchange economy based on the division of labor.
In the meantime, it rejects all measures to prevent personal initiative.
It considers it necessary to exert all efforts to ensure the success of the private enterprise
But it cannot remain indifferent to fraudulent trade, to the injustice and exploitation of capital, to the lust for excessive profits, and to the misery and misery of the great masses that result from them.
In principle, the State cannot engage in agriculture, commerce and industry.
In this respect, it considers it appropriate to transfer state-owned enterprises that do the work that individual enterprise has already accomplished to companies, with the participation of those who work there.
In large-scale economic undertakings which are beyond the reach of the knowledge and capital of private enterprise, the participation of foreign capital and knowledge shall be ensured, if possible, through private enterprise;
if not, the state may undertake such undertakings through its internal and external resources.
It endorses the State's undertakings in works that do not attract interest from private and foreign capital, such as ports, large water works, energy resources, railways, postal, telegraph, telephone facilities and the like.
Article 19) Our main vision is that all citizens should receive a share of the positive or negative results of the efforts and measures taken by the nation to increase the national income, in accordance with the principles of social justice and in proportion to their labor, enterprise, capital, service and achievements.
In order to achieve this, it is our ambition to adjust all economic and financial mechanisms in accordance with scientific measurements.
Article 20) Our Party rejects the influence of local and political interests and purposes in all kinds of State schemes and undertakings in the economic field,
It rejects any kind of monopoly that abolishes economic freedom, any kind of monopoly that abolishes freedom, and the waste of national labor and capital.
And yet, it is based on economic efficiency.
Article 21) The Party considers the cost and selling prices of all kinds of production and business life, the interest rates of the money, capital and credit markets, the wage principles of all physical and intellectual service workers, the rental rates of real estate, in a broad sense, as economic mechanisms that help citizens to get their share from the national income of economic life.
And it is based on the economic and overall development of the social class by closely monitoring and monitoring the relations between them.
And it considers it permissible for the state to intervene as a regulator in economic activities that support and stimulate national production, forces and opportunities in every field.
Article 22) We consider it an absolute necessity to ensure the coordination of all activities that fall within the concept of national economy
and, if necessary, to give direction to these activities from a single center.
JUSTICE AFFAIRS
Article 23) In order to ensure that justice is fully administered in the country, we consider it a prerequisite that the organization that will perform the judicial function and, in particular, the judges should be free from all kinds of material and moral influences.
-For this reason: a) We are against all kinds of powers that undermine the guarantee of judges.
-b) We are in favor of the delivery of justice as burdenless, costless and easy as possible.
-c) We are in favor of maximum peace and prosperity for all members of the judicial staff and the equipping of the entire judicial apparatus with the means and means.
Article 24) We consider the establishment of a second level of judiciary between the Courts of First Instance and the Court of Cassation to be essential for the expediting of work and the administration of justice.
We are convinced that it is necessary to formulate a fundamental law on the organization, grades and duties of all courts and to free the organization from scattered provisions....
Article 25) We believe that it is necessary to ensure the unity of justice in accordance with the principle of unity of jurisdiction and to abolish the powers granted to special authorities.
We consider it exceptionally permissible for crimes arising solely from military affairs to be tried and sentenced in Military Courts.
Article 26) We are determined to revise the legislation in order to ensure the harmony of the laws with each other, and especially to reorganize the law on execution and bankruptcy, which is disrupting business life with its provisions and practice.
Article 27) We want the judicial apparatus to function in a way that leads to specialization.
Article 28) We believe in the necessity of completing the cadastre of the country as soon as possible, and for this reason, we want the cadastral committees and courts to be revised according to the conditions and requirements of the day in order to settle disputes quickly.
Article 29) We are in favor of the establishment of special courts for the prosecution of juvenile delinquents and their being subjected to separate procedures, and the establishment of reformatories for juvenile delinquents,
Article 30) We consider it essential that the institution of Forensic Medicine be given the importance it deserves, etc. that the number of forensic physicians be increased and that for this reason forensic medicine organizations be established in the places deemed necessary.
Article 31) We consider it essential that detention houses are separated from prisons.
We wish to make prisons and detention houses suitable for humanity, health and civilized life conditions and to raise the convicts morally and materially, to give them jobs and to return them to the society as good citizens.
Article 32) We are looking to reinforce and expand the revolving fund soup kitchens that have been implemented in prisons and to direct them towards productive results by implementing them in correctional institutions as well.
NATIONAL EDUCATION AND TRAINING AFFAIRS
Article 33) The Party considers national education and training as the basis of all its activities.
It is based on combating ignorance and illiteracy.
For this purpose, our education and training activities should be linked to a general plan that will meet the needs of the country in the best possible way.
and in this field, historical culture, customs and traditions
It considers it essential to consider the technical and cultural elements of the West together with the meez and elements of the West.
Article 34) Education, knowledge to the nation
and technical information
nationality,
and should be organized in such a way as to provide moral upbringing,
It must pursue a goal that will instill and strengthen national faith and ideals in Turkish youth.
In the meantime, we see great benefit in raising the human qualities of young people by strengthening their freedom of religion and spiritual beliefs.
Article 35) Throughout their education, students should be trained in the ideas of creativity and constructiveness, with the capacity for personal initiative and jurisprudence, and should be
equipped with a sense of duty and responsibility based on the principle of work, and should be trained to be successful in practical life.
We see it as our duty to train outstanding scholars and leaders in every field, and to provide opportunities for young people, whether poor or rich, who are capable and willing.
In order to protect the youth from all kinds of bad influences, we are determined to give them a profession.
Article 36) In order to ensure the development of the country in scientific and technical fields, we consider it useful to establish research institutes in various branches of science and science and academies with autonomy, consisting of valuable scholars.
In the face of today's world and national conditions, we are convinced of the necessity to train technical and scientific people in abundance.
Article 37) The application of new methods in education and training is essential.
Culture,
We will take measures to spread technique and art to the people.
To increase the number of art and technical schools, factories and apprentice schools in the country,
our aim is to make small artisans abundant.
Article 38) Primary education constitutes the foundation of educational activities.
In this respect, our first goal is to ensure compulsory and free primary education.
Taking into account the growing population of the country and the needs of tomorrow, we will try to ensure that the children of the country have access to schools and teachers as soon as possible.
Avoiding the method of obligation that would make the situation of the citizen more difficult while building village schools
and in construction, it is necessary to avoid luxury and waste and to choose the strongest and simplest building types.
Efforts will be made to ensure that all village schools have 5 grades each and to establish regional schools for the education of scattered small villages.
Once primary education is provided, special emphasis will be given to agricultural and art education.
Article 39) In the education levels after primary school, and especially in secondary education, we will give primary consideration to ability and aptitude.
We consider it one of the duties of the Government to ensure their development.
In secondary education, which is a stepping stone to higher education, we consider it useful and essential to achieve efficiency in terms of quality, not quantity, and to enable young people who do not succeed to enter other vocational schools and life without wasting time.
We attach importance to pre-primary education and we encourage and patronize initiatives for its realization.
Article 40) Our Party is of the opinion that foreign language education is not given enough importance in the country.
For this reason, he asks that the issue be taken up again and seriously and that it be dealt with accordingly.
We are convinced that it is essential to increase the number of foreign language schools in various regions of the country and to train students who speak foreign languages.
Article 41) We will highly value the folklore values of our nation.
We will ensure that physical education and all kinds of sports are promoted throughout the country in accordance with our living conditions.
We will focus on their importance in terms of art, culture and clean entertainment.
We encourage young people to get involved in extracurricular social organizations.
Article 42) It is a fact that the current Maarif libraries are far from meeting the needs and that this issue is not given due importance.
For this reason, we consider the expansion of existing libraries, the establishment of new ones and the introduction of the mobile library method to be essential.
Our aim is to sort out the unclassified old works, translate the important ones into new letters and present them to young generations.
We believe that it would be beneficial to continue translating valuable works from around the world.
Article 43) It is our ambition to protect and preserve the "Antiquities" which are the relics of our ancestors, the pride of Turkish history and the source of inspiration for the future.
Article 44) We are determined to ensure the success of all teaching and learning staff in their duties without any financial hardship and to provide them with the high reputation and position they deserve.
Those primary school teachers who are qualified should have the opportunity to work their way up to the highest levels of education.
Article 45) We believe that it is necessary to open evening schools, night classes and technical education courses in villages and cities in order to educate those who have passed the school age without reading.
We consider it essential that Turkish women be educated in such a way that they understand and teach their duties and responsibilities in the family and society.
interior affairs
Article 46) We are in favor of a new approach to Turkey's Administrative and Civil Organization and its division into units according to the economic and social requirements of the day.
We believe it is essential to accelerate the necessary investigations and studies for this purpose.
The basic unit of administration as a legal entity should be the "parish" and the parish should enjoy administrative autonomy.
It should have a popularly elected Assembly and a "Head of the Bucak" elected by the Assembly.
The powers vested in provinces and parishes should belong to the Provincial General Assemblies and Parish Assemblies, not to individuals.
The powers of Governors, District Governors and District Heads should be completely reserved to administrative affairs.
Thus, the participation of the people in the administration should be ensured.
Article 47) We believe that the current administrative organization does not meet the needs in terms of spirit and mentality, procedures and administrative methods.
The government and its organization should not be seen as a mere imposing entity outside and above the people, but in the service of the people and the nation, carrying out their affairs in accordance with the laws and regulations, in justice and equality.
and to develop and reinforce in their relations with the citizens a mindset that embraces the requirements of the democratic system that they aspire to.
We advocate that administrators should not participate in any of the activities of the existing political parties in the country and should act in a non-partisan manner to provide security and peace to the citizens.
Article 48) The boundaries of the powers and responsibilities required by administrative duties must be precisely defined.
We believe that bureaucratic behaviors and procedures that result in the concentration of all powers in certain hands and the weakening of accountability should be abandoned.
Article 49) We request that necessary measures be taken to ensure that the activities of parish, municipal and provincial administrations are carried out according to the programs and plans to be prepared by the specialized committees.
DENTAL WORK
Article 50) The main principle of our foreign policy is to protect the independence and territorial integrity of the Republic of Turkey and the rights and interests of the Turkish nation in the international arena.
Article 51) Faithful to the Constitution of the United Nations and to our international commitments, we are firmly committed to the equality of nations under the law and to international solidarity and cooperation.
To pursue a foreign policy that is worthy of our history and geopolitical situation and that has a personality without departing from these principles.
To strengthen and increase the political, economic and cultural ties with the nations with whom we share the same geographical area, the same beliefs and the same destiny,
We attach particular importance to supporting the struggle of nations for their independence and freedom.
Article 52) The Ministry of Foreign Affairs shall have a professional structure and organization in order to work efficiently and shall be equipped with all material and moral means for this purpose,
In the context of world politics, we consider it essential to establish and reinforce specialized departments that are closely related to the geographical region in which we are located and that are composed of experts who have penetrated the languages and cultures of neighboring nations.
ARMY AND MILITARY AFFAIRS
Article 53) We consider it necessary that our army, which will ensure the material and moral defense of the country, should be organized and equipped in such a way that it will always and honorably accomplish this task, and we consider it essential that these efforts be based on our national strength.
We are determined to equip the Turkish Armed Forces with modern weaponry, to raise the moral assets of the personnel to a superior status, to secure their future by making their living standards appropriate, and to provide them with favorable housing conditions, with the aim of addressing all kinds of preparations even in peacetime.
Article 54) We are determined to ensure peace and security by making the necessary improvements and reforms required by the times in the military service, promotion, retirement and similar fundamental legislation of our army, and by applying the laws, regulations and instructions fairly and with full equality.
Article 55) The Party is strongly opposed to the military's involvement in politics, either openly or covertly, and to its being used as a tool for politics.
AGRICULTURAL WORKS
Article 56) The Party considers it an inevitable necessity for the survival of our existence that agriculture, which constitutes a significant part of the national income, be increased in the first place and rapidly.
In this respect, it believes in the necessity of a comprehensive agricultural reform in Turkey with its social and economic aspects.
And it considers the development of our peasants, who have been the most neglected until today, as a necessity of national prosperity and social justice.
To transform large areas of land that are not being exploited or are not fully productive into maximum production units and to make efforts to ensure their productivity,
It considers that the state should purchase the increasing amount of large lands and distribute them to landless farmers and take measures to turn them into productive enterprises.
On the other hand, it considers it necessary to prevent the fragmentation of production units (according to the types and regions of production) through inheritance and other means, and thus to prevent situations that disrupt production and reduce productivity by reducing it below the minimum limits required for a family, but to find formulas that respect inheritance and property rights.
On the other hand, the possibilities of increasing productivity by consolidating scattered pieces of land should be explored.
It considers that the activities and relations of agricultural workers, sharecroppers and tenants should be handled with the same mentality as a basis for social and political stability in our country.
Article 57) We shall study and take into consideration the forms of economic and social reforms that will ensure the development of the various regions and provinces of the country in a short period of time according to their particularities, and we shall benefit from the exemplary practices of countries that have experience in these matters.
Article 58) We emphasize the fact that water and wind erosion have been destroying the soil of the country and endangering agriculture, especially in recent years.
For this purpose: Afforestation, terracing on sloping land, increasing the use of animal feed crops, and
We are considering protective measures, such as the replacement of the versioning tools according to their location.
Article 59) Due to the fact that the arable and cultivated land in our country has been exhausted and neglected for many years, we consider it essential to concentrate all kinds of activities aimed at increasing its productivity.
In this respect, it considers that one of the main solutions for our salvation is to bring the yield results to the level of advanced countries by giving particular importance to large-scale irrigation, fertilization and equipment works and alternating agriculture at all costs.
We consider it essential that a geological map of Turkey's underground geology be made rapidly and that efforts should be made to bring the identified underground waters above ground and to irrigate as much land as possible through the organization and arrangement of small and large surface waters.
We also think that soil types should be analyzed according to regions and measures should be taken according to the results.
Article 60) We consider it a natural necessity of agricultural development that mountainous or sloping state land, which has become a wilderness, should be owned by the villages or individuals in accordance with the climatic and agricultural possibilities and conditions, subject to certain conditions and commitments for forest, olive grove, vineyard, etc.
Article 61) Taking into account the soil and climatic conditions as well as regional characteristics, one of our main objectives is to strive for agricultural production to reach standard and satisfactory levels in terms of quantity and quality for domestic and foreign markets.
In this context, in particular, fruit growing has become an uncompetitive source of national income in terms of quality, quantity and cost,
We will endeavor to take the necessary measures, considering it a natural necessity of the conditions of the country.
In order to make these productions valuable, it is one of our main duties to protect and encourage canning.
Article 62) Believing in the importance of the duties of the state in agricultural development, we intend to organize and plan them, starting with the most important ones for the national economy.
Paying close attention to agricultural credit institutions, in particular the Agricultural Bank, Agricultural Production and Sales Cooperatives, and taking the necessary measures to improve and increase their assets and functions, which are still frozen.
To encourage and ensure the establishment of agricultural insurances.
To provide farmers with the agricultural equipment and machinery they need, to establish and develop an agricultural equipment industry, and to establish workshops in appropriate places.
It is one of our main duties to open agricultural, experimental, breeding and breeding stations according to the characteristics of the regions, to supply all kinds of cereals and fodder crops seeds needed by the farmers and to make these institutions available to the villagers.
Article 63) We are convinced that internal and external market security is the first condition for increasing and valorizing all kinds of agricultural production.
We are determined to support the Sales Cooperatives and Companies that will be formed for this purpose.
Article 64) We want to give importance to agricultural pest control and we believe that this will ensure high quality crops and increase production.
Article 65) Livestock farming, which has a large share in national income, is very important as a helper of the farmer, the main means of livelihood for a large mass of people and, most importantly, as a source of nutrients....
In addition to increasing the number of livestock and breeding their breeds, livestock breeding should preferably be developed through the raising and fattening of livestock and for this purpose, the supply and production of animal feed, alfalfa and similar fodder should be encouraged.
We are determined to take up the issue of poultry, which has so far been confined to the confines of the home and village economy, and to strongly support initiatives and efforts to raise poultry in large farms throughout the country.
We consider it essential to reinforce the veterinary organization and laboratories in the country and to seriously fight against all kinds of epidemic and contagious animal diseases.
We are determined to maximize the production of aquaculture products in Turkey, especially fisheries, by protecting and promoting them.
B...thus, we are confident that with the preservation of the increased production, we will be able to provide the country with a source of food and, more importantly, a source of foreign exchange.
FORESTRY
Article 66) The conservation and development of forests, which constitute an important part of our national wealth, has become one of the most important tasks of the state.
We believe that this issue cannot be solved with short-term and different views in Turkey, whose forests are diminishing and being destroyed day by day.
For this reason, we are considering the preparation of long-term plans, which every changing administration is obliged to implement unconditionally and unconditionally, and the utilization of local and foreign experts.
We consider the establishment of new forests by the state and legal entities (such as villages, municipalities, provinces) as an unavoidable necessity and we consider it our main duty to support these initiatives.
We believe that it would be beneficial to reduce the need for forests by taking all kinds of measures to ensure that all kinds of fuel and construction needs of citizens in the villages and cities are gradually diverted to rignite and other materials to the extent possible.
However, these initiatives do not mean that the villagers will not be provided with firewood and coal.
Article 67) It is our aim to utilize forest villagers and private enterprise to the maximum extent in the field of valorization of forest products and industry other than the conservation and operation of state forests.
We consider it one of our main duties to take a close interest in the situation of the people living in or near the forests, and to provide new crops with the help and assistance of the state to those who cannot make a living from forest crops and industry, and to turn them into producers.
INDUSTRIAL WORKS
Article 68) The political and geographical situation of our country, which has various and great underground wealth;
Being surrounded by seas.
All kinds of personnel are trained and have the opportunity to be trained.
Valorization of some agricultural production.
In addition to all of these, in the face of the population growth, the provision of jobs and livelihoods should be taken into consideration.
We believe in the possibilities of Turkey's industrial development and we attach great importance to industrialization.
Article 69) In industrial undertakings, the Party shall take as a basis the possibilities and continuity in the supply of initial raw materials and supplies within the country.
It also considers ways of reaching foreign markets.
It does not approve of the use of uneconomic means to maintain artificial and inefficient industries caused by incidental and temporary reasons.
Article 70) We are convinced of the necessity to reorganize and reorganize the country's industry in line with the conditions of the national economy on the one hand and the world economy on the other.
For this purpose, we accept that the application of rational working principles in both State Economic Enterprises and private enterprises will make it possible to significantly increase the productivity of people, working hours, raw materials and machinery, in short, to increase productivity and reduce costs.
In this context, we will pay attention to keeping the quality intact.
Article 71) The state to re-enter into large-scale economic enterprises and to be a leader in the economic field,
In order to provide new opportunities for private capital and enterprises, we will look for ways to free the state-owned enterprises from their present form and transfer them to their members, businessmen and free market opportunities in a collective manner, and we will strive to realize this, even if gradually.
Article 72) Industrial enterprises are units which utilize the resources of the country, increase national income and, of course, promote economic and social welfare.
In these enterprises, in addition to the entrepreneur's share of the enterprise, the right to capital, and the wage if he is actually working, we consider it a natural requirement of our social state concept that every employee should benefit from the profit results arising from the joint labor and efforts of the employees working there, and we consider it useful to take the necessary measures for the development of the industry in this mentality and direction.
Article 73) We believe that oil resources, as well as coal, iron, chrome, copper and other minerals, offer great opportunities for Turkey's future and for domestic and foreign markets, and we attach great importance to their extraction and exploitation.
Correspondingly, for the development of our industry and economy, the construction of dams for the production of cheap electrical energy, and the establishment of power plants for the local utilization of underground energy resources,
We believe that basic projects, such as the establishment of atomic power plants for the utilization of atomic energy, should be preferred to the fields where short-term results will be obtained first, and we believe that all kinds of capital resources should be used for their rapid realization.
Article 74) We see the necessity to protect and encourage handicrafts that make the leisure time of the people, especially the peasants, valuable and small arts that are the means of livelihood of a large mass of people.
TRADE BUSINESS
Article 75) in business life, first and foremost, to instill and ensure trust, and for this purpose, safety
and stability is the first condition.
Measures that change in short periods of time, and even attack each other, should be avoided
, and the hesitations and distrust that state interventionism would engender should be eliminated.
Economic measures should be taken to prevent behaviors that undermine business ethics in domestic and foreign trade and to protect business life against all kinds of stock market games and speculation.
Article 76) All kinds of credit activities and services of national and private banks should be organized and carried out in accordance with the needs of the national economy.
Article 77) We deem it necessary to reorganize the Chambers of Commerce and Industry, Tradesmen Associations and Unions, democratic and social organizations, which are unable to respond to the professional goals, identity, business life and social issues of the tradesmen, in a legal sense and in a way to meet the needs.
Article 78) We consider it essential to take necessary measures to ensure that the country's production is standardized in domestic and foreign markets and that it is placed on the market with certain qualities.
Article 79) The present economic structure of the country makes it likely that foreign trade will remain in deficit for some time to come.
In order to close these deficits in the short term;
increasing the production of exportable commodities in particular and utilizing long-term cheap foreign credits for this purpose.
Adjusting domestic consumption in favor of exports.
Avoiding trade-distorting systems and procedures.
One of our main objectives is to give importance to tourism in all aspects and to encourage and develop the tourism industry.
In this context, emphasis will be placed on imports that are geared towards the promotion of production and economic development.
FINANCIAL AFFAIRS
Article 80) The starting point of our fiscal policy is to ensure the administration of the Government with genuine and sincerely balanced budgets.
We want the expenditure budgets to be in line with the national capacity and in accordance with the real and essential needs.
We do not accept the indirect provision of income and expenditure outside budgets.
Article 81) We believe that it is a duty of honor and homeland for every citizen living and earning in Turkey to participate in state expenditures and to pay taxes commensurate with his/her power, and we want to strengthen this awareness.
We believe that taxation should be based on generality and fairness
, and we are convinced of the necessity to avoid all kinds of waste and luxury unconditionally and unconditionally.
We are determined to take all kinds of decisions to prevent tax evasion and the accumulation of wealth through this route.
Article 82) We are in favor of abolishing taxes that burden capital, such as land and building taxes.
Article 83) We consider it necessary to take measures to ensure that no tax is levied on earnings and incomes corresponding to the minimum subsistence level;
Article 84) We are determined to ensure the elimination of taxes and duties that restrict and hinder economic activities and disrupt exchange by creating unnatural effects on the nation.
Article 85) Borrowings shall be made only to increase the productive capacity of the nation and for national defense.
Actions that jeopardize our national and economic independence must be avoided for any reason whatsoever.
Article 86) To abstain from all financial activities that would cause inflation in the country and to ensure the safety and stability of the value of the Turkish currency,
We consider the regulation of money, credit and capital markets as one of our main tasks.
TRANSPORTATION AND PUBLIC WORKS
Article 87) Based on the geographical, economic and political possibilities and necessities of Turkey, we intend to link the establishment and operation of rail, sea, air and land roads and rural roads, i.e. the transportation network, to short and long term programs and plans and to establish a complete harmony between them in every aspect.
Our first goal is to ensure and control the transportation of citizens in peace, safety, speed and at the most favorable rates.
In the meantime, we are determined to prioritize economy and efficiency in the transportation of goods between production and consumption regions and to foreign countries, and thus to achieve social and economic results.
Article 88) In view of the great burdens and the current financial situation of the State Railways, on the one hand, to make efforts to transform the administration into a rational enterprise,
On the other hand, we are based on the principle that any public burden that impairs its economic functioning should be borne by the state.
In spite of the improvements in the means of transportation, we are of the opinion that there is a need for the organization and reinforcement of the railway network in Turkey.
Article 89) We shall reinforce and encourage the merchant fleet, especially the freighter fleet.
Private enterprise should play a leading role in this work,
We will ensure that they benefit from all kinds of business and foreign opportunities in order to ensure their participation in overseas transport business on a large scale,
We believe that with the development of Turkish shipping, the economy of the country will have opportunities, especially in terms of foreign currency supply.
Secondly, with the development of heavy industry, we are determined to accelerate shipbuilding in the country.
We are determined to save the domestic sea routes from being a source of loss and to turn them into a productive enterprise.
Article 90) We will ensure that the airline business is transformed from a luxury means of transportation to a cheap and non-loss-making one.
We also consider the possibility and chances of success of the private enterprise in this field as a subject of examination.
Article 91) We are convinced that state highways constitute the lifeblood of the country and its economy.
In this respect, in accordance with the programs and plans, we are in favor of the roads to the remotest corners of the country. In
Considering the increasing importance of railways in domestic transportation, the great burdens they impose on the State and the importance they have for the operation of railways....we consider it necessary to re-examine the tariff relations between these two networks and to take the necessary measures....
consider the relations between the railways and the depots, warehouses and warehouses in railway operations together and consider them as complementary to each other in a transportation system.
We think that village roads should be built quickly and necessary measures should be taken for the state to provide assistance.
Article 92) We attach importance to news transportation (P. T. T.), which has become one of the most important means of transportation, and we are committed to the development of this work in a commercial mentality and to the reorganization of all kinds of communication up to the villages.
In the meantime, it is natural to meet the needs for wires, radios, telegraphs and telephones in cities and towns.
Article 93) Turkey is under the constant threat of drought as well as various floods and inundations that occur every year.
In this respect, emphasis should be placed on water works, their regulation, taking measures to prevent disasters, draining swamps, humanizing canals, cleaning small and large waters that have filled their beds.
ZONING AND SETTLEMENT AFFAIRS
Article 94) In the field of zoning and settlement, first and foremost, to accelerate cadastral and land surveying works and to achieve results rapidly,
We consider it imperative to take into account the realities and needs of the country in all attempts and endeavors for land acquisition and resettlement.
It is our aim to overhaul the legislation on these issues vs. to achieve full harmonization between them.
Article 95) We believe that it would be beneficial to divide Turkey into specific regions and to deal with resettlement, housing and village development within the framework of programs and plans.
Article 96) We shall ensure that the resettlement of foreign migrants and internal settlements are organized and carried out in places and in ways appropriate to their family status, occupations and the climatic conditions in which they live.
We will not withhold state aid to help them become productive and efficient in a short time.
Article 97) Our aim is to take all necessary measures to ensure that every family in the village and in the city has a home.
To this end, we wish to support and encourage initiatives undertaken by municipalities, private organizations and especially cooperatives.
Item 98) There is a need to determine the most appropriate and cheapest building materials to be used in construction, taking into account the specificities and climatic conditions of various regions of the country.
We will ensure that a materials or construction institute is established and its activity is supported.
Article 99) We are determined to put an end to the idle construction in villages, small and big cities and to act in accordance with certain plans.
We plan to take measures to prevent land and land speculation, especially in cities.
Thus, we believe that the great burdens imposed on the municipalities will be eliminated.
LABOR ISSUES
Vocational Orientation:
Article 100) Our Party considers it essential for human freedom and rational economic management that every person be employed in a job according to his/her desires and abilities.
In order to train the labor element in the qualities it is capable of today, it considers it the primary duty of the state to determine which professions citizens belong to through scientific tests and to ensure that they are trained and work in the jobs they are most qualified for.
Vocational Education:
Article 101) In order to ensure that citizens are trained in specific professions, the State shall consider itself obliged to open and make compulsory the necessary educational institutions and technical schools and workshops in order that these citizens may learn the best professional knowledge.
Right to Work
Article 102) Our Party considers it the primary duty of the state to find jobs for citizens who have been trained in a specific job according to their specialization.
It is a necessity for our country, as it is in advanced countries, for the state to assume the obligation of finding jobs for citizens.
Minimum Wage:
Article 103) In order for working citizens to live like civilized people, it is essential to set a minimum wage for the working class, taking into account the subsistence indices.
Article 104) Determination of the age of starting and stopping work,
differentiation of types of work according to male and female characteristics
issues such as the granting of weekly and annual paid leave to employees and the determination of the daily working time will be determined and determined.
Social Assistance
Article 105) It is imperative that the state extends a helping hand to citizens with limited incomes, especially workers, in times of hardship.
Our main goal is to open modern medical institutions for the benefit of these citizens.
In this context, we find it essential to provide all kinds of facilities, doctors, medicines and all kinds of services free of charge.
Social Insurance
Article 106) Citizens with low incomes, and workers in particular, sometimes, despite their desire to work, are unable to do so due to unemployment, illness, accidents or old age.
The state should extend a helping hand to such people through social insurances.
Our Party considers it its duty to see the development of such social institutions in the country and to work for their realization.
In order to ensure social peace and tranquility, it is one of our general principles that all citizens, rich and poor, should benefit from these social institutions and participate in the auxiliary funds of the institutions together with the state.
Trade unions
Article 107) The free establishment of trade unions by working citizens to protect their professional interests is the foundation of the regime of freedom.
They should be given this opportunity.
In this regard, the state should help the development of such unions.
Right to Strike:
Article 108) Workers should be given the right to strike in defense of their legitimate rights to wages and improved working conditions.
The right to strike should be seen as a kind of enforcer of social justice and a means of technical progress.
Collective Labor Contract:
Article 109) Workers must be given the right to enter into collective labor agreements in order to defend their professional interests.
Our Party encourages and supports such agreements.
HEALTH AND SOCIAL WELFARE AFFAIRS
Article 110) We consider it one of the most important issues of the country to deal with the human being, who is the most precious element and the foundation of our national existence and future, and his health affairs as a whole.
We consider it essential for the physical and mental health of citizens to be covered by health guarantees from maternity and birth until the end of old age.
Article 111) In principle, we accept the socialization of medicine in the country, but we are of the opinion that this work should be handled in a gradual and gradual manner with a well thought out plan and organization,
In the meantime, the possibility of self-employment should be kept open.
Article 112) We consider it necessary to plan the necessary sanitary facilities and measures, both preventive and curative, and to open sanatoriums and prevantoriums where possible, in order to fill the shortages of hospitals in cities and towns.
Article 113) We consider it a minimum necessity to have a physician, a pharmacy and a dispensary in those districts where it is possible, and to employ at least one medical officer and a midwife in those places where this is not possible.
Article 114) The organization to combat tuberculosis, syphilis, trachoma, malaria and similar diseases will be expanded.
Article 115) Establishment of research institutes in the field of nutrition capable of working at the level of comparable countries,
Planned provision of sanitary drinking water to villages,
We consider it natural that the pharmaceuticals procured and prepared within the country should be distributed cheaply and that the pharmaceutical and material industries established and to be established for this purpose should be encouraged and protected.
Article 116) The community should open its arms to orphaned and poor children and help them in their education and upbringing according to their talents and abilities.
Article 117) The Party considers it its duty to fight against prostitution, gambling, poverty, vagrancy and begging in the country.
