iMAOlMABARI$
The June 7 elections brought Turkey to the brink of a historic crossroads, with the HDP overcoming the threshold and the Erdogan AKP ending 13 years of one-party rule.
June 7 brought about a new parliament that should have taken the only correct path and rolled up its sleeves for a 'social contract' that would rebuild Turkey in line with the democratic demands of our peoples for change.
A Parliament oriented towards democratic change, towards the Erdogan dictatorship,
can put an end to the AKP government, which has become synonymous with corruption and corruption,
It could have opened the door to a democratic Republic.
Unfortunately, the incapacitated 'parliamentary majority' that succumbed to Erdoğan's 'palace coup' not only squandered a historic opportunity for democratic change, but also called into
question its own political legitimacy in this short period of time.
After June 7, Erdoğan, terrified that the winds of 'democratic change' would sweep him away, plunged the country into war and chaos without any convincing and credible justification.
There is no need to look elsewhere for those politically responsible for the war and chaos that has led to the loss of dozens of lives.
Those responsible are those who ended the solution process by saying 'there is no Kurdish problem, there is no negotiation, there is no table'. Those
who dragged the country back into violence by saying 'this would not have happened if there were 400 parliamentary deputies'.
They are the ones who do not respect the democratic will of the people and want to abolish this will with the 'Palace Coup'.
They are despots who come to power through elections and do not want to leave through elections.
Those who dream of a 'presidential system' are responsible for today's war.
turning people against each other, increasing social polarization and
waging dirty war
Those who seek to revive the politics of annihilation and denial by
think that this war and the dozens of people lost in the war will open the door to power for them.
They are wrong; the peoples know very well why this war broke out and will ask those who dream of 400 and clay to account for it in the November elections.
Today's anxiety and fear of tomorrow make all our lives unbearable.
While the absolute supremacy of the state and the power of capital is wrapped in security circles, it makes nature, people and society precarious.
It wants to put the market and political power under the armor of immunity and establish unhindered control over the totality of our lives.
True democracy can only be achieved by those who effectively fight against the oppression of society and human beings under the absolute domination of capital and political power.
All this is only possible through radical democracy.
Radical democracy is the ability of the people to become an organized force with real power over their own lives.
It is the strengthening of society and its becoming the basis for freedom, justice and equal citizenship.
Radical democracy is the empowerment of society to have a say and decision over the conditions of production and work.
It is an economy of secure livelihoods that will strengthen the foundation and future of society.
Radical democracy is the right of workers and laborers to ensure job security against workplace homicides.
It is the worker's right to strike,
is to make visible the invisible labor of women.
Unemployment,
is the end of poverty.
Radical democracy means that all peoples, without discrimination, with their own mother tongues, with their own identities and cultures, with an understanding of self-governance, and building the 'New Life' together by passing it on to future generations.
Radical democracy means increasing women's support in the struggle against male domination and violence.
It is the liberation of young people from fear of the present and the future.
It is a common recognition that nature is not a raw material but life itself.
Free education
and health;
qualified, public, secular, secular, scientific, mother tongue education.
Human dignity transportation
and the right to be hannma.
Elimination of barriers to the participation of persons with disabilities in social life.
On the way to November 1, we all need a ban as much as the bread we eat, the water we drink and the air we breathe,
democracy, justice.
We need true democracy to build a 'New Life' in which the existence and living conditions of every element of society are guaranteed by society as a whole.
The great peace we will build together on human values
and we need justice.
We need people's self-government, not dictatorial rule.
HDP announced the program of "Democracy, Justice, Peace" during the coalition talks.
The only formula for Turkey's exit from the current crisis is the implementation of this program.
A lasting peace,
a deep-rooted democracy,
building local democracy,
equality between men and women in all spheres of life,
social rights for working people,
secure working and living conditions,
an ecological life,
will be able to liberate all oppressed identities
HDP is ready to take responsibility for the construction of a populist, democratic government.
November I, in Turkey, where we can live together with our differences on the basis of equal citizenship.
It can be the new door to a 'Democratic Turkey' based on self-governance, where we will govern ourselves, our city and our country together.
A P~I\Ti~Ti~Ti~Ti~Ti~Ti~Ti~Ti~Ti~Ti!
WOMEN WILL WIN FOR FREEDOM AND EQUALITY
On June 7, we cast our vote for peace,
solution,
E'Shitlik
AND' we favored democratization.
Pluralism from the ballot box,
E'Shit
AND' symbiosis,
dE'democratization'
AND the 'will to freedom' came out.
DE'nE'timwouldn't accept, we did not recognize any right, law or opposition, we said that the party would stop the E'gE'mE'nlikE.
TE'k man dictatorship,
AKP is leading the country to war,
drag our young people to death,
'no' to policies hostile to women and society.
However, at this point, on the one hand, the style of governance based on dialogue and reconciliation, on finding common points, not excluding each other, as indicated by the results of the SE'Çim, has been completely rejected.
On the one hand, there is the very clear and clear public opinion,
Solution,
E'Shit
AND' symbiosis,
dE'democratization'
AND' a major offensive has been launched to crush the will to freedom.
In order to establish a dictatorship, a war has been waged against all people, especially women, who have defended the will they have put forward with their vote, their attitude and their struggle, in order to intimidate and, if they cannot be intimidated, to destroy them.
We, women, have been struggling for thousands of years against the European system that refuses to recognize women's will, that has the will to intimidate and destroy women's quest for freedom through violence and massacre.
We know very closely from our own lives that an attack on the will is an attack on existence, and that an ethnic-DE'VlE'tin determined to impose its own will AND its own interests can be very cruel.
AND' we say without any hesitation: "We recognize these attacks; to defend the will is to defend the existence."
We women are for life against death, for peace against war,
Dictatorship vs,
freedom
AND' justice,
we struggle for a dignified life against slavery.
We put forward our promise AND' our will one more time AND' with a growing women's solidarity AND' determination.
Women, together we will succeed.
We, the women who are the reflection of the world AND of life, say:
Our BE'dE, our identity, our E'mE is ours.
We insist on education and life in the mother tongue.
We will be present in all areas of life, in politics, as we want, when we want.
We decide whether to have children or not, how many children to have, how to give birth.
We decide on our headscarf and the length of our skirt.
We are determined to make our school our own.
We cannot be prohibited from freely expressing our thoughts and beliefs.
Our Will cannot be ignored or trampled upon.
We will not let the war tE'zkE'rE'rE'sin' E'VE't say E'VE't.
We will not allow people to say "There is no Kurdish problem, there is no table, there is no side" until we take a step towards peace.
We, especially women, will not give in to the practices of self-immolation, de facto curfews, and forced migration that take the lives of the whole people.
They are trying to establish a dictatorship, a system of economic, political and social repression.
What we are struggling to create is an education in our mother tongue;
where there is no 'war' and no violence;
We can't leave our home, our village, we can SEE the life we want;
Considering violence against women, where we do not experience violence, as a serious crime at the stage of threats and physical violence, and punishing them severely;
It has prisoners who try perpetrators of violence without any discount or discrimination;
Where we are not harassed anywhere and can walk freely on the streets;
That we are not killed by men AND by state violence;
We are entitled to the wages and social support we deserve;
Equal pay for equal work;
Where we are not burdened with all the responsibilities, from children's schooling, grandparents' health, family nutrition, health and peace of mind;
That we do not wash all the dirty laundry, all the dirty dishes of the world;
That we don't have to feed the whole world with our own labor;
She has created solutions that unify domestic work and care for children, the elderly and the sick;
It has green parks for children to run around in, and free kindergartens in every neighborhood where they can stay safely;
Assembly, composed of women deputies representing the women's struggle;
We are struggling to build a Turkey, a life in which we are not subject to any domination, especially male domination.
As women, we have taken important steps towards breaking all dams.
We established a women's group with 32 women deputies.
And the electoral threshold,
and the blockade of oppression around our cities,
We will continue to destroy men's dams on November 1st and always and everywhere.
In spite of the cruelty and injustice of those who say war to the end, with all our joy and enthusiasm, equality to the end,
freedom to the end,
by saying peace till the end,
We will build a new future by claiming ourselves, our will and our word, our self-governance.
We will fight together to transform the patriarchal social structure and masculine mentality.
We will spread the co-chairmanship system to every institution and cadre.
We will make a new women-centered constitution together.
We will declare BMart a public holiday for women.
We will make a gender-sensitive budget, not a war-integrated budget.
We will increase women's employment, reduce unemployment and put an end to sexism, discrimination and inequalities in the world of work.
We will improve the working and housing conditions of seasonal women workers and create job opportunities for seasonal mobile workers in their localities.
We will take all measures to eliminate violence against women.
Women are life, we will not allow life to be murdered, we will organize our self-defense.
We will increase the number of women's shelter E'Vi VE' free living spaces.
We will establish a "Ministry of Women" where women AND women's organizations will directly develop solutions to all problems related to women.
Together we will build a free life for women with disabilities without disabilities.
We will put an end to 'discrimination' and 'sexism' in education.
Together we will build an ecological AND women-friendly life.
We will provide women with equal, free, affordable, accessible, quality AND 'native language' health care.
We will put an end to sexism in sports.
"Women are a party to the solution and negotiation process", we will build peace together.
We will socialize housework and care work, and build a new life where the burden of domestic work is shared between women and men.
We will ensure that women domestic workers are included in the scope of the labor law and that E'V workers are given incentives for social security.
We will create social support mechanisms to serve gender equality, and provide wage support to divorced/divorced women.
Life against death, peace against war,
Dictatorship vs,
freedom
VE' was adalE,
We will win E'Şit VE' common life against 'slavery'.
we insist on a lasting peace and a democratic solution
The solution process was close to entering the path of permanent peace.
With the February 28th 'DolmabahçE' Memorandum, it would be possible to achieve a negotiated solution to the Kurdish problem in a short period of time and pave the way for the democratization of Turkey.
However, Erdoğan, who failed to get the 400 national votes he wanted on June 7, put an end to the solution process by saying 'there is no Kurdish problem, no DolmabahççE', no table'.
It started a new war on various pretexts, even though there were no credible grounds to justify the war.
Dozens of young people lost their lives and families were devastated.
Now he hopes for war AND chaos to get 400 nationalists AND to be in power on his own.
As HDP, we demand: Immediate bilateral silencing of weapons, stopping the bloodshed
AND' we want to go back to the negotiating table.
We will not give the opportunity to those who want to secure their 'political future' on the blood of poor, working children.
Against those who say 'war to the end', we will say 'peace to the end'.
Through peaceful means, through negotiation, through the self-management model, the Kurdish problem can be solved,
hE'm also convinced that it will pave the way for Turkey's democratization.
We will continue to defend unarmed solution AND democratic politics under all circumstances.
We will ensure the determination of the damages of war, the return of those displaced by the war and their economic recovery, the rehabilitation of destroyed habitats and mined land, and the compensation for damages.
ÖlGovernance or Decentralization
Self-governance is vital for the construction of 21st century Turkey.
The need of 21st Century Turkey is not to reinforce the authoritarian, bureaucratic mE'rkE'rkE'ziyE'tist dE'Vlet structure, to gather the authorities under one roof and to lead to a 'one man' dictatorship.
It is to hand over the leadership of a multi-identity, multi-cultural, multi-lingual, multi-faith 21st century Turkey's ihtiyacı mE'rkE'z.
To develop a 'grassroots democracy' in which the peoples will participate directly in governance and govern themselves, and to develop a
system of justice-oriented national governance based on a unique national and regional model.
Self-governance is an autonomous and democratic model of governance.  It is possible for Turkey to grow within a 'unitary state structure' AND a 'democratic parliamentary system'.
Self-governance against the sovereignty of Ankara, practiced by governors and district governors, is democracy.
Self-management is the security of voluntary association.
It will provide different identities, cultures, languages and beliefs with the opportunity to live together within the law of equal citizenship, as well as to live in accordance with their own identities, beliefs or idiosyncrasies.
It will contribute to the democratic solution of the Kurdish question and to the development of lasting peace, as well as to the democratization of Turkey.
AND' will play a decisive role in ensuring the voluntary unity of the peoples.
Self-governance will unite today's 'divided' Turkey....k AND it will enable everyone to live together with their differences.
Self-management is the address of a democratic solution.
Solving the problems of ethnic identity, culture, language and beliefs that have been rooted in history,
'Equal citizenship'mE'lindE' Equalitarian,
libertarian
E'cologic,
social
AND' with a democratic constitution
take diversity into confidence
AND' achieving lasting peace
self-management' is possible.
As HDP, we advocate self-governance, not dictatorship.
We want to introduce a fair and equitable governance system based on democracy and governance on the ground.
In line with this approach, legal steps will be taken to eliminate the tutelage of the center over the local.
Necessary legal, administrative and structural arrangements will be made to ensure that local administrators, including governors, are elected.
The powers of local governments in the use of local resources will be increased.
Pluralist policies that take into account differences in language, culture, belief, memory and needs in localities will be developed.
Annotations to the European Charter of Local Self-Government will be removed and the relevant additional articles will be signed.
Regions will be determined and regional assemblies will be established to cover the whole of Turkey, taking into account social, political, cultural, ecological, economic and geographical characteristics.
Regional assemblies will be autonomous and democratic units of decentralized governance for the whole of Turkey.
In accordance with democratic constitutional principles, they will be units of government in which local people have direct say, authority and decision-making over their regions, natural assets and resources, in the election of governors, and in taking decisions on health, education, environment, culture, transportation, public works, agriculture, traffic and security services.
It will be the self-governments of the Black Sea region, not Ankara, that will decide whether to build Greenways and HEPPs in the Black Sea, a 3rd bridge, a new airport or a new Bosphorus in Istanbul, an Artillery Barracks in Gezi Park, nuclear power plants in Sinop and Mersin, and power plants in Yırcav or S oma.
Village, neighborhood, district and city assemblies will be established starting from the lowest geographical unit to ensure the direct participation of the people in governance, and the political governance structure will be built as a pyramid of assemblies.
In addition to these assemblies, women's, youth, ecology and workers' assemblies will be built
and the necessary mechanisms such as social networks and platforms will be established to ensure the coordination of all people's assemblies.
In provinces, districts and villages, local government policies will be determined by these people's assemblies.
People's assemblies will be formed with the direct participation of everyone living in that settlement.
The assemblies will not be mere "consultative" bodies, but politically empowered units that will be able to take decisions on all kinds of issues in their settlements and will have the right to 'recall' local leaders as they have elected them.
Recognizing that public rights are social rights, local governments will be transformed from commercial service-producing units.
Local governments will be restructured with an understanding that aims to ensure partnership in both production and consumption.
Women will directly participate in local governments through women's assemblies with equal representation at the local level.
The priorities of urban services will be organized on a gender-equal basis and the decisions of women's assemblies will be decisive in meeting demands.
These decisions will be implemented by all local government bodies such as municipalities and provincial councils, and their implementation will be monitored by women's assemblies.
The HDP will urgently implement regulations that adopt the concept of democratic local governments as a principle, and create the basis for a democratic administrative structure throughout Turkey that enables the people to govern themselves.
In the light of this approach, the HDP is committed to a budget determined by the people,
rent and theft,
will develop a decentralized management approach that prevents subcontracting.
Gender equality in local governments
and ecological society approach.
It will stop rent-based urban transformation policies that victimizes the people and develop human livable cities with on-site transformation models supported by social projects.
Take measures and make the necessary structural adjustments to enable children, pensioners and the elderly to participate more easily in urban life.
Eliminate the obstacles to the inclusion of people with disabilities in urban life.
Promote the use of the mother tongue in the public sphere and multilingual municipalism.
Instead of neo-liberal local economic policies, it will implement pro-people and pro-labor social policies.
By developing the concept of 'right to the city', it will ensure equal and qualified access to the city and its facilities, including rural areas, and
distribute urban services equally to all social classes.
In order to secure the right to subsidiarity, HDP will organize the relationship between the center and the local in the direction of strengthening decentralization.
Local governments will be developed on the basis of social needs.
Ensure the fair and effective use of local resources.
It will support social solidarity by increasing the number of common public spaces in local areas.
Promote a pluralistic approach that recognizes the diversity of languages, cultures, beliefs and needs in localities, and support the engagement and negotiation between different social groups.
It will keep local memory alive.
It will protect nature, water, forests, streams, meadows, beaches, agricultural areas, water ecosystems
and fight to prevent their use as profit and rent areas in the capital accumulation process.
NOT MONIST, DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
Since the foundation of the Republic, the state policy of denial, assimilationism and theism based on the denial of the existence of different identities, cultures, languages and beliefs and the denial of fundamental democratic rights is the
biggest obstacle to a 'Democratic Republic'.
Turkey is not doomed to the Erdogan dictatorship and AKP rule, which wants to maintain the 'theist republic'.
It guarantees the fundamental rights and freedoms of labor,
the people can live together equally, freely and humanely with their own identities, cultures, languages and beliefs
It is possible to say 'hello' to the 'Democratic Republic'.
'In a democratic republic, egalitarianism will be built on great human values,
libertarian
It is possible to build a democratic 'New Life'.
HDP will limit the powers of the President and reduce them to a symbolic level.
It will make the necessary structural arrangements for the establishment of 'pluralist legislature, independent judiciary and democratic executive' and the principle of 'separation of powers' and 'checks and balances' mechanisms.
It will not limit democracy to representative assemblies and will remove all obstacles to citizens' direct participation in discussion, organization and decision-making mechanisms.
It will develop popular control at all levels, defend the people's right to say and decide, and fight for its realization.
Democratic autonomy will be implemented to ensure people's participation in governance and decision-making processes.
It will democratize the parliamentary system and introduce a system of co-prime ministership if the parties implementing the co-presidency system come to power.
It will remove the obstacles and oppressive laws in front of fundamental rights and freedoms, especially the right to demonstrate, march, express and organize.
It will abolish the constitutional and legal framework of the National Security Council, a product of the September 12 coup d'état.
Sections of the Turkish Penal Code that are incompatible with universal democratic principles, the Anti-Terror Law, the Internal Security Law and courts with special powers operating under various names will be abolished, and the unjust penal system applied by these courts will be ended.
All forms of torture and ill-treatment will be considered crimes against humanity.
Education in one's mother tongue as a public service will be recognized as a right for all, and in addition to the teaching of the official language, Turkish, at all stages of education, the possibility of receiving education in one's mother tongue as a public service will be ensured.
Obstacles to the empowerment and support of civil society organizations to enable them to achieve their objectives will be removed and civil organizations will be developed.
The village guard system, which was created as a special warfare apparatus, will be abolished and village guards will be employed in various jobs.
In addition, all other special warfare apparatuses such as JİTEM, counter-guerrilla, etc. will be put an end to.
PEACEFUL$ POLITICS
HDP will work for the peoples of the Middle East and the whole world to freely determine their own political future and to develop and implement a democratic, egalitarian and libertarian understanding of governance in which the peoples will govern themselves.
It will work for the end of the civil war in Syria and for the emergence of a democratic solution based on the brotherhood and equality of the peoples.
It will recognize the will of the people of Rojava for democratic governance and work for the implementation of a democratic Syrian government.
It will prevent jihadist elements from using Turkey as a bridge to the region.
It will stand against the massacring, occupying policies of the Israeli government.
We will do our utmost to end the occupation of Palestine and to ensure the right of the Palestinian people to establish an independent state that will allow them to determine their own political future; we will continue to stand by the Palestinian people against oppression and persecution.
It will not bind itself to the artificial borders drawn by the E'mpE'rialists in the Middle East, but will work for the strengthening of the economic, social and cultural ties between the peoples and for the elimination of the bureaucratic E'ngE'llE'llE's that are hindering the relations.
We will continue to support the proposals and efforts of the Turkish and Greek Cypriot peoples to put an end to the division of the Island and to achieve a political settlement.
It will lift the economic embargo on Armenia, develop necessary economic, political and diplomatic relations and build bridges of friendship with the Armenian people.
Turkey will unconditionally open the Turkey-ErmE'nia border, which has been closed bilaterally by Turkey.
We will support efforts for a democratic settlement of the Karabakh conflict between Armenia and Azerbaijan.
We will continue to defend the principles that the European Union emphasizes, such as respect for human rights, democracy, separation of powers and the rule of law.
The EU's stance against the EU's neo-liberal policies of silencing, which have been particularly evident in the Greek crisis and the massacres of migrants
AND' we will continue our joint struggle with the E'ZilE'ns of Europe.
EU negotiations and full membership will be conducted within the framework of our principles.
Halklann VE' E'mE'ğin yapay sınırlada aynlmasınakarşı, dünya halklan ilE' E'mE'ktE'n, özgürlüktE'n VE' dE'mokrasidE'n yana tüm kE'simlE'rlE' ilişkilE'ri gE'liştirE'CE'k.
We will continue to oppose policies such as being a partner in imperialist interventions, imposing sanctions, and intervening in other countries.
Racism, anti-SE'mythism, human trafficking [exploitation of women, children and human beings], migration problems, international drug trafficking, and the "displacement" of people in Europe and the world, will cooperate to develop solutions to the problems of xenophobia, islamophobia and other humanitarian issues.
DEMOCRATIC CONSTITUTION
Turkey is experiencing the pains of being without a democratic constitution throughout the history of the Republic.
Turkey is not condemned to a military coup constitution that ignores all oppressed peoples, classes, genders, beliefs, languages and allows the plunder of nature.
HDP will prioritize the drafting of a democratic constitution that recognizes and guarantees diversity on the basis of equal citizenship in order to ensure the transition to a Democratic Republic.
HDP will put forward the need for a new "social contract" in line with Turkey's multi-identity, multi-cultural, multi-faith, multi-lingual structure as a fundamental political task that cannot be postponed.
HDP will work with all its strength to make an egalitarian, women's libertarian, social, ecological and democratic constitution.
The constitution envisaged by the HDP will be a constitution that guarantees freedom of religion, belief and conscience on the basis of equal citizenship and all fundamental rights and freedoms in economic, social, political, cultural, ecological, natural and animal protection.
HDP will not accept that the "presidential system", which it openly opposes, should be made the main condition for constitutional amendments, and will not allow the presidential system to be passed.
The right to peace, the right to truth in the new constitution,
the right to form trade unions, the right to strike and the right to collective bargaining,
the right to social security, the right to basic income, the right to housing,
disability rights
the right to clean water and adequate food,
the right to conscientious objection,
the right to cultural identity, the right to use one's mother tongue,
the right to education and training,
right to information, right to a fair trial,
the rights of children, the rights of the elderly,
with animal rights
It will include provisions guaranteeing freedom of thought, expression and association, freedom of religion and conscience, and freedom of the press.
political parties and election law
The Law on Political Parties will be democratized and arrangements will be made in which the grassroots, voters and members can directly participate in decisions.
It will be made easier to become and leave party membership.
The electoral threshold will be abolished, paving the way for all parties to be represented in the Parliament in proportion to the votes they receive.
Positive discrimination will be practiced until equality is achieved in representation levels in governance through gender quotas.
The co-chair system will be legalized at all levels of political parties, administrative structure, political, social and cultural life.
Treasury aid to political parties will be distributed equally to all parties that are qualified to stand for elections in proportion to their monthly income.
Parliamentary immunity will be abolished and only the immunity of the rostrum will be protected within the framework of freedom of expression.
JUDICIAL REFORM
The justice system will be reorganized in order to ensure that justice is swift, impartial, independent and satisfies the public conscience and individuals.
Necessary legal arrangements will be made for the independence, impartiality and democratization of the judiciary. the prosecution
and defense authorities will be made equal within the judicial system.
The prosecutor's office and prosecutors' offices will be established in a separate public building other than the courthouse.
A judicial police force will be established under the prosecutor's office.
The judicial law enforcement agency will also provide services to lawyers during investigations.
Arbitrary practices in house, workplace and body searches, detentions and arrests will be ended.
The structure of the HSYK will be reorganized, and political pressure on judges/prosecutors and ideological attitudes and free-speech approaches in appointments will be put an end to.
It will be transformed into an autonomous institution, ending the authority of the Minister of Justice.
Judicial conditions will be created in which everyone can receive services in their mother tongue, and the practice of paying for interpreters in courts will be ended.
Illegal wiretaps that violate the right to privacy will be prevented and will not be accepted as evidence in courts.
freedom of the press, communication and information
The HDP will prevent the restriction of the public's freedom to receive accurate information due to political and business relations and the exploitation of citizens through the media.
Owners of media organizations will not be allowed to operate in other sectors.
A press ethics law will be drafted to promote the principles of professional, ethical and free reporting in print, broadcast and digital media.
Freedom of communication will be protected and all attempts to restrict this freedom, such as external interference, censorship and self-regulation, will be resisted.
All forms of censorship of the internet will be ended.
Arbitrary internet bans and obstacles to freedom of expression on social media will be lifted.
Local radio, television, newspapers and internet publishing organizations will be supported to adhere to the principles of professional, ethical and free news reporting and to protect their independence.
RTÜK will be restructured with a democratic and libertarian approach, and will be removed from a prohibitive, conservative and moralistic position.
HDP will ensure that new media technologies are used for public discourse, not for pushing society towards consumption.
Open-source free software will be encouraged.
human rights, prisons
While everyone's right to life should be guaranteed by the state wherever they are, political prisoners are dying one after another in state prisons.
Thousands of political prisoners in prisons are treated as "hostages".
While the harassment, rape and ill-treatment of children in prisons have been exposed, inhumane practices continue unabated as no radical and permanent measures have been taken.
Sick prisoners will be released immediately, and reports from full-fledged state hospitals will be deemed sufficient for them to be treated abroad.
Prisons will be reorganized by radically amending the Penal and Execution Law and putting an end to the practice of torture, restrictions on fundamental rights and administrative harassment.
The power to "burn executions" given to prison administrations will be abolished.
Except for hate crimes and crimes against humanity, no one will be criminalized for their political views and actions, and "political crimes" will be decriminalized.
A general amnesty for political prisoners will be introduced.
Until a democratic and libertarian constitution is drafted, the Anti-Terrorism Law, the Internal Security Law, the Law on Meetings and Demonstrations and the Law on the Duties and Powers of the Police will be repealed as a matter of urgency, and the necessary democratic amendments will be made to the Basic Penal Code.
Juvenile prisons will be closed.
Child support and education centers will be opened for children pushed into crime.
Prisons will be opened to civilian control.
Practices in all prisons will be in line with human dignity.
FACING THE PAST WITH THE TRUTH
HDP will work for the immediate establishment of "Truth Commissions" to investigate genocides, massacres, executions, disappearances and similar practices in history and to bring the truth to light.
Truth Commissions will be a platform for coming to terms with what happened and historical confrontation.
Truth Commissions, which will also mean official recognition and acceptance of what happened, will be formed with the contribution of members of parliament, the monitoring committee, relevant professional organizations, human rights defenders and those who struggle in this field.
The formation of commissions will be based on equal participation of women.
FORCED DISPLACED PERSONS AND ZDRUNW MIGRATION
All properties occupied to date by the state or residents due to forced displacement will be returned to their owners.
Mines and wastes of war as a method of warfare will be cleared in accordance with the Ottawa Convention, and mined lands will be made available for agricultural production.
Border dams and hydroelectric power plants built for security reasons and new forced migration policies caused by urban transformation will be ended.
Return from the city to the village will be encouraged.
Financial support will be provided for returnees to participate in production.
Support will be provided to those who want to return to their villages.
KDRUCUWK SYSTEM TO BE ABOLISHED
The village guard system will be abolished and those involved in crimes will be prosecuted.
These groups will be compensated for the damage they have caused by returning confiscated property.
Former village guards who have not been involved in crime will not be allowed to use weapons and will be employed in jobs outside the security sector.
Their personal rights will be protected.
The recruitment of the state's special warfare apparatus and paramilitary groups as security forces on the grounds of HEPP and dam security will be stopped.
RIGHT TO CONSCIENTIOUS OBJECTION
The international conventions to which Turkey is a signatory, the judgments of the ECtHR, and the Turkish Constitution, which also includes the right to freedom of belief and conscience, require the legalization of the right to conscientious objection.
HDP will guarantee the right of young people who do not want to take up arms and who are against militarism not to do compulsory military service.
In addition to the right to conscientious objection, it will implement the necessary legal arrangements for young people to do public service instead of military service.
HATE CRIMES
Hate speech is based on prejudices, racism, xenophobia, all forms of discrimination, sexism and homophobia.
HDP will stand against stigmatizing people with hate speech, against creating the perception of crime and enmity, and work for the prosecution of hate crimes.
EQUALITY FOR PEOPLES, FREEDOM FOR BELIEVERS
HDP defends the right of all peoples and beliefs to express themselves freely, regardless of religion, religion, religion, religion, religion, religion, religion or belief.
It accepts as a fundamental principle that everyone, without being subjected to any oppression, protects and develops his/her own existence with his/her differences and lives as he/she wishes within the law of equal and equal citizenship.
It embraces freedom of belief and conscience for all, believers or non-believers.
HDP resolutely defends a libertarian understanding of secularism.
HDP will constitutionalize the freedom of belief and conscience of citizens with different religions and beliefs or those who do not have any religious beliefs within the framework of equal citizenship.
Compulsory religious education will be abolished and the right of every student to receive education and training in accordance with their own beliefs will be respected.
Civil religious education will be completely seirbeist.
The Presidency of Religious Affairs will be restructured as the Board of Religious and Belief Affairs.
The state will be removed from the sphere of religion and belief, and the affairs of religion and belief will be left to the community, to the people of faith.
The Religious and Belief Affairs Board will not be an institution that produces 'religious politics'; it will be composed of representatives of faith communities, will regulate the relationship between them and will ensure coordination.
The personal rights of Religious Affairs employees will be protected. The
obstacles to the freedom of association of faith communities will be removed and conditions will be created for them to live their beliefs as they wish.
All Alevi places of worship, especially Cemevis, will be recognized as "places of worship" and will be under public guarantee.
Obstructions in front of closed places of worship will be removed and local governments will be given the initiative in this regard.
The state will restitute the property and immovable property of foundations that have been seized by the state, put an end to similar practices, and compensate for material damages caused by the state's disposition.
There will be no interference in any area with the dress and attire preferred in accordance with religious beliefs.
HDP will make the necessary efforts to demand an apology on behalf of the state for the genocide and massacres committed against different peoples in history.
Egalitarianism in the face of racist, chauvinist and nationalist policies that impose the superiority of one people over another,
libertarian
and will work to develop a democratic perspective.
refugees and asylum seekers
According to estimates, the death toll in the internal conflict in Syria since 2011 has exceeded 250,000.
The number of gross violations of human rights such as torture, extrajudicial killings and rape cannot even be estimated.
It is precisely for this reason that some 15 million people are displaced in Syria.
Around 4 million of them have sought refuge in neighboring countries, while around II million have sought refuge elsewhere inside Syria.
In the face of the fact that Turkey has at least 2 million Syrian refugees and more than 500 thousand refugees from other countries, there are many problems that need to be solved in terms of legislation and implementation.
The HDP will organize to ensure that Turkey urgently lifts the geographical reservation and that refugee status is included in the scope of migration and asylum from outside Europe.
All migrants, refugees and asylum seekers and internally displaced persons are entitled to a life worthy of human dignity in accordance with fundamental human rights;
will maintain and improve its necessary cooperation with international institutions, non-governmental organizations, business circles, chambers of commerce, media, opinion leaders and other stakeholders to identify and implement sustainable policies to achieve social cohesion.
It will ensure safe routes of transport for all asylum seekers, refugees and migrants, safe shelters, humanitarian corridors for them and facilitate visa arrangements.
It will establish the necessary policies and legal regulations to prevent hate speech against migrants and asylum seekers, sometimes bordering on racism.
In particular, it will ensure the improvement of legal regulations and the transformation of legislation into practical areas that will enable bar associations and lawyers to participate effectively and strongly in the processes.
It will establish all the mechanisms of a system to improve and expand the scope for the implementation of policies to ensure objective, transparent and legal administrative and judicial oversight at all stages of the asylum process.
The establishment of a holistic service process management that covers all rights such as the right to shelter, health, education and work for all asylum seekers and refugees, and within this framework, both national
will ensure the continuity of the international cooperation network.
In a system dominated by neoliberal ideology, any conditions to be provided for asylum seekers and refugees will be transformed from an 'aid concept' to a 'rights concept'.
SOCIAL JUSTICE ALWAYS LIVING SECURELY WITH HDP
The HDP will implement economic policies based on solidarity, decision-making by the will of the people, meeting social needs and protecting the ecosystem.
HDP, together with the society, will build an egalitarian, sharing, gender-equal, ecological "SecuredLifeEconomy".
The priority of the SecureLifeEconomy will be healthy growth
and equal sharing.
Our basic perspective is to increase the control over economic relations of working people, who produce all value but have no say or decision over what they produce.
SAFE LIFE ECONOMY
With the Basic Assurance Package, each household will receive 10 cubic meters of water and 180kW/h of electricity free of charge every month, and heating support will be provided.
Rent support of 250 TL will be provided to tenants who do not own a property.
Until the age of 18, public transportation will be free for children and young people, people with disabilities and laborers.
Public public transportation will be provided as a widespread, non-profit service across the country.
Public services also provided by local governments will be financed by the central budget.
Usage above consumption quotas will be charged.
The costs will be covered by a transfer of resources from the upper classes of society after adjustments to the tax system.
Growth rates will be reflected in wage increases as a share of welfare in order to secure the future with real income growth, not debt.
Credit card debts will be restructured in favor of debtors.
Credit card interest rates will be reduced.
A secure life is financed through tax justice.
The progressive income tax tariff will be reorganized.
Those who earn less ~~~- those who earn more will be taxed more.
The share of indirect taxes [SCT, VAT, DIV] in tax revenues will be reduced and the tax burden on laborers will be reduced.
Budget discipline and control will put an end to the waste of public resources.
A publicly supported social name will be developed by supporting a solidarity economy with village/rural/urban cooperatives and worker/worker self-managed enterprises.
The enterprises to be created by local governments will be organized as cooperatives based on "self-management".
Public tenders will be opened to public scrutiny, and the flow of public funds into the corrupt economy will be stopped.
Your name will be economically empowered against the patriarchal system.
Domestic labor will be included in social security, and unpaid domestic workers, "housewives", will be given the right to pension.
Necessary arrangements will be made to increase women's employment.
Safe life at work will be established.
The right to organize trade unions, which has been obstructed and suppressed by the capitalist powers, will be secured and implemented in all workplaces.
Workers and trade unions will put an end to occupational homicides with secure work and safe work.
Poverty is not only a lack of income, but also a lack of access to education, health and other life necessities.
Poverty will be fought.
No citizen, regardless of origin, language, belief, gender, physical, mental and psychological health status, age, sexual orientation, will be left homeless, hungry, not knowing what they will eat the next day, or in need of care.
There will be no citizen without social security insurance.
Every citizen who is unemployed, elderly, disabled, separated from his/her spouse, orphaned, orphan, victim of a work accident, in need of care and protection will be identified within the social security system and will be provided with the necessary social support, assistance and protective services.
All citizens will benefit from equal, free and quality health services.
New employment-oriented life workshops, job-guaranteed vocational training and vocational training programs will be implemented.
Privatization will be halted,
The current bureaucratic functioning of SOEs will be democratized and workers and trade unions will have a say in production.
Qualified and accessible public services will be produced at a level necessary and sufficient for the realization of civil, political, economic and social rights and freedoms at the central and decentralized levels.
The Unemployment Fund will be used for its intended purpose.
Resources for public social transfers will be increased.
The priority of monetary policies will be the construction of a pro-privileged economy that aims to increase employment.
Defense and security spending will be reduced and effectively subjected to public scrutiny.
The Defense Industry Fund will be included in the budget and made open to audit.
The slush fund will be abolished.
The allocation of financial resources will be based on eliminating regional inequalities, and resources allocated to regional governments will be increased.
The tax burden of artisans will be reduced.
Debts will be restructured in favor of tradesmen.
No new shopping mall licenses will be issued for city districts.
SMEs will be provided with zero-interest financing support within the framework of sectoral planning.
Measures will be taken to protect SMEs against unfair competition.
The whole system of incentives and incentives, the healthy development of production
and we will target employment growth.
SELF-SUFFICIENCY IN AGRICULTURE
HDP will cover all agricultural workers under the labor law and social security.
Small farmers will not be taxed on production inputs, diesel fuel and fertilizer.
Water and electricity will be provided free of charge to small farmers.
Smallholder producers will have their electricity debts written off.
Pastures, grasslands and plateaus, which are free feeding grounds for animal breeders, will be protected and returned to villages as common assets.
Healthy food is a right.
GMOs will be banned in food production, processing and imports.
Agricultural land will be protected, cannot be misused or polluted.
Mined lands will be cleared and opened for subsistence farming.
Suitable treasury lands will also be distributed to landless villagers for subsistence farming.
A legal basis will be created to open up treasury lands and formerly mined lands for agricultural production so that landless peasants or displaced citizens, who have today become cheap labor, can live on their own land.
Policies will be developed for the protection and development of agricultural and forestry lands, and for the urban population to benefit from these areas as producers and consumers.
Instead of importing meat and meat products, livestock farming will be supported and better opportunities will be provided for people to consume natural meat and dairy products.
Agriculture, which was brought to the point of extinction, will be revived, subsistence farming will be supported and Turkey will become self-sufficient in agriculture again.
Providing the people of Turkey with sufficient, healthy food will be among the top economic priorities.
Villages will be transformed into vibrant centers of life and production.
Farmers' unions and producer-peasant unions to be established will be supported.
Cooperatives and producer unions will be transformed into independent and democratic structures, and the Cooperatives Law will be revised in favor of subsistence farming.
All kinds of agricultural irrigation networks will be made available to all citizens living in rural areas in an equal and fair manner.
Based on the perspective that every citizen should be fed where they were born, the causes of seasonal agricultural labor will be eliminated.
The process of opening 2B tennan lands to rent-seeking will be put an end, and the use of 2B tennan lands for subsistence agriculture will be ensured.
livable cities, healthy housing, people-oriented transportation
HDP determines its transportation policies in both urban and rural areas with a focus on people and society.
By improving public transport systems at all levels, the right to public transportation will be ensured.
Public transportation in cities will be based on sea and rail.
Public transportation will be encouraged instead of individual vehicles.
By ensuring village-urban transportation integration, villages will be rendered livable and urban agglomeration will be prevented.
INADlNA FOR NATURE, INADlNA HDP
HDP is committed to protecting the ecosystem against capitalism's commodification and exploitation of nature, cultural and natural assets and life.
It does not consider the struggles to protect life and livelihoods as separate from the labor and class struggle.
It raises and embraces the demands of those struggling for the protection of nature and the right to life in the countryside and in the city.
HDP considers the city as a collective right, and aims to build cities with democratic governance and people's assemblies,
and ecological understanding of the ecosystem.
The city's squares, zgurats, groves and coasts are our common spaces to be protected.
No crazy and nature-destroying projects and practices that will disrupt the public, natural and cultural texture of these areas; no capital projects will be allowed to destroy historical sites, forests and natural areas that form the identity of the city and cause ecological destruction.
Projects of this nature that have already started will be stopped.
The projects to open the existing habitats in and around the urban space to rent-seeking and capital accumulation will be opposed.
When necessary, with the decision of the local authorities and certainly the people, protecting the ecosystem,
On-site transformation based on the right to housing will be implemented.
Safe and secure housing where every individual can live in safety and dignity is a fundamental right.
By producing social housing, the right to healthy and safe housing will be secured.
HEPP, thermal, nuclear and similar energy projects for capital accumulation, mining practices that cause ecological destruction, industrial waste and pollution that lead to the destruction of lives will be put an end to.
Urban transformation projects that plunder the city; the usurpation of historical, cultural assets and common living spaces; the privatization and marketization of environmental services such as water, wastewater and solid waste through all destructive rural and urban policies of capital will be prevented.
Prepaid meters installed in houses and fields will be canceled, 10 cubic meters of water per household and
water for subsistence farming will be provided free of charge.
The use of agricultural areas, forests and pastures for industrial agriculture and capital projects will not be allowed, and ongoing projects in all regions of the country that destroy the ecological balance will be canceled.
Forest areas destroyed for these projects will not be opened for construction.
On-site production of energy for the needs of local people will be ensured and projects for this purpose will be supported, and renewable energy will be prioritized for the needs of the people.
Production and recycling based on nuclear and radioactivity will not be allowed, nor will agricultural areas, pastures, forests and coasts be allowed to become nuclear waste sites.
Water use right agreements will be canceled.
The use of animals in commercial experiments, circuses and street promotions will be prevented.
Regulations, laws and practices that ensure that animals are slaughtered and their fur and assets are made part of capital accumulation will be canceled.
Animal concentration camps will be abolished.
iNADlNAHOP SAFE WORK, SAFE FUTURE, HUMAN LIFE
Flexibility, precariousness and subcontracting have become the main employment policies in the production process and unemployment has grown.
HDP considers decent, secure work and a secure future as the inalienable right of every laborer.
UNSAFE WORKING WILL END
Precarious work will be ended.
Labor will be protected against capital's attacks, a
fair wage system will be introduced to ensure a decent living and a fair wage system that will be reflected in retirement, and the current flexible and precarious forms of work will be put an end to.
Uninsured and non-unionized labor will be prevented and the informal economy will be registered.
Private employment agencies will be closed and the use of hired labor will be ended.
The subcontracting system will be gradually abolished.
In the first stage, subcontracted employees in the public sector will be made permanent employees.
Severance pay for the period of subcontracted work will be paid.
In the private sector, the main employer will be equally and equally responsible for the employees together with the sub-employers.
Domestic workers will be covered by Labor Law No. 4857 and Occupational Health and Safety Law No. 6331
. The discrimination against those who work less than one day will end and domestic workers will be entitled to insurance even if they work for one day.
Seasonal workers will be protected, rights of migrant workers will be improved
The freedom of association of seasonal agricultural workers will be guaranteed, the practice of "brokerage" will be ended, and measures will be taken against all forms of discrimination.
Transportation of workers in unhealthy conditions, in violation of traffic rules and safety will not be tolerated.
Issues such as transportation, housing, nutrition, clean water, toilets, wages, working hours, occupational safety, health, social security, children's education will be determined by contracts.
"Equal pay for equal work" will be implemented.
End discriminatory and exclusionary practices against migrant workers.
deaths in the mines will stop
Production in mines will be suspended until worker health and safety measures are taken.
Wages will be guaranteed to be paid by the employer until safe production conditions are in place.
Modern, secure production conditions will be ensured in mines under public control.
Mining laws and legislation will be revised in consultation with trade unions, chambers and universities.
Privatization, subcontracting and royalty practices will be ended
. Mines will be operated by the state.
NO MORE WORKING DEATHS, NO MORE SICKNESS
The slavish working conditions that have made Turkey the first in Europe and the third in the world in the list of countries where there is no worker health and occupational safety will be put an end to, and mechanisms will be established for trade unions and workers to be the main supervisors of worker health and occupational safety.
A Worker Health and Safety Council will be established.
The right to occupational health and safety will be recognized as a constitutional right.
All relevant legislation, especially the "Occupational Health and Safety Law" and the "Penal Code", will be reorganized.
The current policy of impunity will be ended.
Those responsible for causing occupational homicides will be prosecuted for murder.
PUBLIC WORKERS WILL BE SECURE, RIGHT LOSSES WILL BE REMEDIATED
The employment regime in the public sector will be changed, precarious work in contract, subcontractor and similar different statuses will be put an end to, and permanent and secure employment policies will be implemented in all public services.
All payments will be subject to pension deduction.
Performance-based pay will be abolished.
All obstacles to free collective bargaining and the right to strike will be removed.
The freedom of political organization of public workers will be paved the way.
PREVENT CHILD~labor, SUPPORT YOUNG WORKERS
Child labor will not be allowed and necessary measures will be taken to prevent it.
Unemployed youth will be prevented
from being excluded from social life, solidarity networks will be developed in neighborhoods and districts, and spaces will be opened for their inclusion in social and cultural activities.
Young people's right to work will be guaranteed.
An end to precarious and low-paid working conditions.
Measures will be taken to prevent new slavery conditions camouflaged as internships and apprenticeships.
WAGE POLICY IN FAVOR OF LABOR
The minimum wage will be 2,000 TL in the first phase.
It will be determined by a committee of workers' representatives equal to the number of representatives of the government and employers, and through collective bargaining.
The reservation to the European Social Charter on the right to paid annual leave will be removed and workers will be entitled to at least one month of paid annual leave.
The right to severance pay will be protected and improved.
- It will be ensured that all workers benefit from the right to severance pay, and regulations that make it easier to receive severance pay will be introduced instead of provisions that make it difficult to receive severance pay.
- Workers will be prevented from being victimized by companies that close down, whose employers flee or go bankrupt, and the receivables of workers who cannot receive their severance pay will be secured by the treasury.
combating unemployment
Laborers, who do not have the opportunity to have a secure job, show poor working conditions with low wages in order to keep their jobs under the pressure of unemployment.
These conditions will be changed.
Unregistered work will be prevented.
The official weekly working time for the employment and labor force will be reduced to 35 hours per week without loss of employment.
The use of the "Unemployment Insurance Fund" by the unemployed will be facilitated and the payment conditions and amounts will be reorganized in favor of workers.
Necessary legal arrangements will be made to prevent the misuse of unemployment insurance by the state.
Layoffs under the pretext of the crisis will end.
Legal arrangements will be made to require the immediate reinstatement of workers who win a reinstatement case, and the union threshold will be abolished.
Employment policies will be developed to prevent migration from rural to urban areas and to ensure that everyone can live in prosperity wherever they want.
The establishment and functioning of mechanisms such as cooperatives, which are non-profit and will provide social benefits, will be facilitated.
women's labor
The gendered division of labor will be dismantled.
Social life will be rebuilt with women and men together and on equal terms, women will be empowered.
The male-dominated system ignores women's labor and work.
An end to the masculine, sexist division of labor, discrimination and inequalities.
It will enable women and men to rebuild social life together and on equal terms.
A 'New Life' will be established, in which solidarity, not hatred, will prevail between men and women.
As the first pillar of strengthening the invention, free, accessible kindergartens, elderly care institutions, rehabilitation centers for the disabled, which will provide 24/7 service for every child in their mother tongue in all neighborhoods, will be implemented with a social state approach.
Necessary legal and institutional arrangements, such as non-transferable parental leave, will be made to ensure equitable task-sharing between men and women.
Through the free pillar of women's empowerment, women's employment will be increased by socializing care services, which are the most important obstacle to women's employment, and ensuring women's access to education.
The discrimination, sexual assaults, mobbing and low wages that women face in the workplace will be ended.
As the third pillar of women's empowerment, all women will be provided with social security as independent citizens.
Women will be provided rights-based support.
union rights and freedoms
The rights of workers, public employees, and all those associated with work (unemployed, retired, students, farmers, home-based workers, paid and unpaid domestic workers) to organize in unions with strikes and collective bargaining will be guaranteed.
Work branch, workplace and enterprise thresholds will be abolished and regulations that discriminate between unions will be abolished.
Basic forms of strike action such as rights strikes, solidarity strikes, work slowdowns and general strikes will be legally guaranteed.
The right to strike and collective action will be guaranteed for all workers as a fundamental means of seeking, protecting and developing their rights.
The employee's right to freely choose a union will be enshrined in law.
The government's power to postpone strikes will be abolished, and the way to postpone strikes on the pretext of "national security and public health" will be closed.
Lockout will be removed as a constitutional and legal regulation.
Arrangements will be made to ensure internal union democracy, transparency and control.
Trade unions will be protected against state and government interference and control.
The average salary of professional trade unionists will not exceed the average wage of a skilled worker.
Elected executives can be recalled.
Supervisory boards will be independent of the winning list.
Strikes, solidarity and education funds will be guaranteed.
not social assistance but social rights
It will be a right for all citizens to have their basic necessities of life guaranteed by the state.
Social assistance will cease to be a gift from the state, a social policy based on citizens' rights will be pursued, and local governments will take on this task.
Citizens' right to housing will be realized in all circumstances, and there will be no one with housing problems.
Social benefits will be determined within the budget.
The social assistance ratio of 1.4 percent of GDP will be raised to 3 percent, above the EU standard.
Aid programs will be opened to public scrutiny and budgeted together with the people.
Social assistance will be based on common norms and standards.
It will be saved from arbitrariness and abuse.
No one who wants to receive social assistance will be offended, assistance will be provided as support, and our citizens will not be made to go door to door.
Social support packages for women will be implemented according to the principle of social justice and equality, in a gender-equal manner and as a civil right.
Women's direct access to social support will be improved without lengthy bureaucratic and humiliating procedures.
Production and consumption cooperatives will be established and/or supported so that people can live cheaper and have jobs.
the disabled and those in need of care will be supported
The Ministry for the Removal of Disabilities will be established to remove all obstacles to the participation of disabled citizens in social life.
This ministry will work in line with the recommendations of a council of disabled people's organizations.
There will be no income requirement for old and disabled citizens to receive care pensions, and home care fees will be increased.
The requirement that only relatives can be caregivers will be abolished.
Caregivers will be insured, with all premiums covered by the state.
Care homes will be established in every district for people with disabilities who need care but want to live independently.
All public transportation vehicles will be made suitable for disabled people and free of charge for disabled people.
Cleaning services will be provided twice a month to the homes of people in need of care.
People in need of care will have their health needs regularly met in the place where they live.
All public nurseries and kindergartens will include children with disabilities.
Efforts will be made to make all workplaces and social spaces suitable for the use of disabled people.
In municipalities that employ people with disabilities and provide services to people with disabilities, it will be ensured that all employees are people with disabilities.
All citizens with disabilities will be provided with social security, and all the needs of the disabled will be met free of charge.
Disabled quotas in workplaces will be increased and filled quickly.
Disabled vehicle charging stations will be established so that citizens who have to use a disabled vehicle [electric wheelchair] can use urban transportation comfortably and freely.
A HUMAN AND HONORABLE LIFE FOR PENSIONERS
The lowest wage for retirees will be equalized with the minimum wage and will be 2,000 TL.
A real adjustment law for retirees will be enacted and wage inequality will be eliminated.
Obstacles to the organization of pensioners will be removed and freedom of union organization will be paved the way.
Pensioners will not be charged hospital co-payments.
Social security support premium deductions made from the basic earnings of employees with a service contract will be terminated and the deducted premium will be added to their salaries.
Contributions to private individual insurance will be eliminated and deductions will be reflected in salaries.
The 15 percent social security support premium deduction from those who retire and work as tradesmen will be ended.
EDUCATION
Education will be provided free of charge as a public service.
The basic needs of the school and the students will be met from the school budget, and no money will be asked from parents under any name whatsoever.
Education curricula, textbooks and other materials will be eliminated from monist, sexist and chauvinist content.
The 4+4+4 practice, which segregates schools for ideological reasons and with an understanding that abolishes the principle of liberal secularism, will be ended.
The education system will be restructured from the very beginning with the "Best Interest of the Child" in mind.
The education system will be restructured in a liberal, secular and scientific manner and made multilingual on the basis of mother tongue.
Positive discrimination and a quota policy will be implemented to ensure that disadvantaged and oppressed gender groups, social classes, halidann and disabled people can benefit equally from university education.
All unassigned teachers will be reassigned by providing the necessary infrastructure conditions.
The practice of paid teaching, which undermines human dignity, will be abolished and all paid teachers will be recruited.
Education workers will be paid a decent and professional wage.
Local management of education will be encouraged.
Decisions on eliminating quality differences between schools, student transfers, determining teacher needs and planning will all be taken by local education councils.
The number of classrooms will be doubled and class sizes will be reduced.
The practice of morning and afternoon classes in all schools will be abolished and a single education system will be introduced.
Students will be fed at lunchtime.
Universities will be rebuilt as democratic, autonomous and multicultural institutions that conduct research for the benefit of society and nature.
Gender equality will be added to the curriculum as a compulsory course.
The education system will be restructured in a way that is integrated with society and nature and based on ecology.
HEALTH IS A RIGHT
Health is a social right.
HDP opposes the use of health care as a tool of accumulative power over the individual and the population, and the abandonment of public health at the mercy of capitalism and power.
It advocates the provision of health services free of charge and based on the needs of society.
Health services, from production to the distribution of health workers, will be carried out with an understanding that is equal, accessible, in the mother tongue, non-sexist, free of charge, qualified, based on the "participation" of every individual in society and building health institutions and organizations wherever people live.
A democratic health system will be established in which the public and health workers will participate in all processes of planning, implementation, evaluation and supervision of health services.
The premium for health services will be abolished.
Health services will be based on preventive and health promotion services.
For this purpose, "public health units" will be established.
Public health units will work on the socialization of health.
Public hospitals will adopt the principle of working on the basis of social benefit.
Profit-oriented practices such as revolving funds, performance-based remuneration and lean production will be ended.
Additional fees, co-payments and out-of-pocket payments of all kinds will be abolished.
CULTURE AND ART
HDP defines its existence in the struggle for the freedom of culture, art and artists.
The opposition to "art" and "artifice" produced by the state through official history and official literature is of special value.
It considers the demands of people of culture and art for autonomy and freedom as a sine qua non value and calls for freedom 'without ifs and buts'.
In the field of culture and arts, the State Artist Institution will be abolished.
A Turkish Arts Council will be established within the Ministry of Culture.
All decisions on culture and art policies will be taken by the Arts Council.
We will stand in solidarity with people of culture and art, their organized representatives and initiatives.
Against the "politics of culture" which does not go beyond "visiting", "looking" and being a "source of income", the opportunity to re-establish citizen-museum and nature-history-citizen relations will be created.
State oppression in the field of arts and culture, and the physical and economic obstacles to the organization and exhibition of art from the local to the general level will be removed.
Support programs for the arts will be transformed from a rent-seeker's market into an incentive for creativity.
Support will be given to the production and exhibition of works of art in living and lost languages in Turkey.
Existing laws will be eliminated from the mechanisms that strengthen censorship, and artistic labor will be secured by making regulations to protect the rights of the work of art and the rights of art workers from the past to the present.
Exploitation and inhumane working conditions, especially in the film and television industry, will be monitored and the production processes of culture and art will be humanized.
Artists' organizations will be supported.
SPORTS
Sports centers, fields and areas that the public can easily access will be created.
Sports federations will be democratized and truly autonomous.
The oligarchic, capital-controlled mechanisms of sports administrations, closed to the participation of athletes and other sports people, and their vested interests with the media will be eliminated.
Sports management and structuring will convey values such as developing one's own possibilities as a human being, trying to surpass oneself, respecting the opponent and his/her labor, competing under fair conditions, caring more about being part of the competition and the event than winning.
The resources allocated to sport will first and foremost be invested in ensuring that the masses can actually play sport, irrespective of performance.
Amateur sports will be changed and sports centers will be established in neighborhoods and villages.
Sports will no longer be a hunting ground for discrimination, sexism and nationalism.
Passolig application will be terminated.
The distribution of licensed athletes according to sports disciplines will be balanced and the dominance of football, which marginalizes all other sports disciplines, will be reduced.
YOUTH WILL BUILD A NEW LIFE OF EQUALITY AND FREEDOM
The call for a 'New Life' is growing with the struggle of young people who work, study, are pushed out of working life, are marginalized, but despite all this, grow the hope of life; who resist in Geızi, Koba.neı, take part in the construction of a revolutionary process in Rojava, and resist the policies imposed by the rulers all over the world.
The youth's rebellion, new political language, democratic political culture and libertarian attitude have the potential to make our 'New Life' politics a viable alternative to the country's politics and to organize the 'New Life'.
In the face of the power mechanisms that try to have decision-making and control over the lives of young people, in the face of the policies that adults speak on behalf of young people, think and design for them, HDP will raise the desire of young people for emancipation everywhere and fight for them to become equal and free citizens.
It is a "youth right" for all youth segments to have their rights met; to have their needs for education, health, housing, transportation, sports, social and cultural development met in a qualified and free of charge manner.
Our party will make this right a reality.
We will launch the "Young LifeCard" application, which will provide 200 TL communication and transportation support every month to all young people between the ages of 15-25 without exception.
With this card, which will be valid everywhere in the country, young people will enjoy free admission to museums and discounts on social and cultural events.
Visa and passport procedures will be carried out free of charge for all young people.
Egalitarian, free, qualified, libertarian, secular and scientific education in mother tongue will be realized.
Students will be included in the decision-making mechanisms of school administrations.
Tools and equipment to improve the quality of education will be provided equally to all schools, teaching materials will be multilingual and free of charge, and will reach students in a natural way.
HDP will ensure the development and advancement of free thought, academic production, human and humanitarian biological studies.
Free, democratic organization of universities, education, training and administrative autonomy will be realized.
Instead of YÖK, a Coordination Board will be established to ensure relations and information flow between universities.
The campus will offer free services for university residents such as dormitories, laundry, library, cultural center, sports hall, etc.
Scholarships and stipend payments will be free of charge for all students and scholarship amounts will be increased.
Contribution fees and tuition fees in second education will be abolished.
YOUNG PEOPLE HAVE EQUAL RIGHT TO SPEECH AND RIGHTS IN ALL AREAS OF LIFE
HDP will remove the obstacles preventing young people from organizing for the right to have a say, authority, decision and participation, and within this framework, it will lower the age of voting and participation in politics to 16 and the age of election to lB.
Youth policies will not be determined centrally by the Ministry of Youth and Sports, but directly by young people themselves through local governments and local networks.
In democratic self-governments, the model of "Youth Assemblies" will be implemented in which all youth segments will take part and work for the solution of their problems.
Youth Assemblies will strengthen local democracy by developing the decentralization model.
Young people are the most vulnerable to unemployment in Turkey.
Our party will develop solutions to ensure the employment of young people by guaranteeing their right to work.
It will end insecure working conditions and eliminate the inequality caused by the age and experience hierarchy in working life.
Internet access for young people is a fundamental right.
Our party will provide uncensored, free and free internet access to young people.
FIGHT AGAINST DRUGS AND SUBSTANCE ABUSE
All mechanisms enabling the movement of drugs will be fought against.
In order to protect our children and youth against drug and substance addiction, multidimensional living centers will be established in living spaces for the social, cultural, art and sports activities they need.
LGBTI PEOPLE'S RIGHT TO EQUAL, FREE AND DNURWAY$AM
A new constitution that recognizes the peoples of Turkey and all the diversities living in this geography is essential.
HDP will take the problem of recognition of LGBTIs as an important problem and take steps to constitutionally guarantee equal citizenship.
and with this, it will develop the struggle for the transformation of hamafabic and transfabic social culture.
Local and central government structures will be established in which LGBTIs can have a say and decision about themselves, organized and individual, and directly represented in administrative and political decision-making mechanisms.
Social policies that will eliminate social inequalities will be implemented by comprehensively regulating all legal legislation, especially in areas such as education, health, employment and housing, with the principle that LGBTIs are equal citizens and will not be attacked.
Negotiable and result-oriented mechanisms will be established against discrimination and violence against LGBTIs.
CHILD RIGHTS TO BE PROTECTED
Violence against children at home, at school and in the family will be explicitly prohibited by law.
Child care services will be expanded.
Support decentralized and publicly funded daycare centers for all women/men, regardless of employment.
Education for all children will be ensured.
"Child Rights Monitoring and Evaluation Commissions" will be established in local municipalities, and sufficient resources will be allocated to child-based areas.
The laws on children and the articles affecting children in all laws will be reviewed and harmonized with children's rights.
Policies to prevent child poverty will be developed.
Food banks will be established in every neighborhood to protect the right to food for all children.
Each child will receive a food package containing basic food items free of charge.
There will be no child living on the streets and forced to work.
We will not allow child labor.
Severe penalties will be introduced for violence against children [child neglect and abuse].
Children in this situation will be protected in safe conditions.
