One nation,
one flag, one
country, one
state is the essence of our politics The
AK Party, which places people at the center of its politics, has set out with the understanding of "Let the people live so that the state may live".
Gazi Mustafa Kemal Atatürk's words "There is no servitude to the people, there is service" are the essence of our people and service-oriented politics.
AK Party conservative
with his democratic identity
honest, moral, consistent, reconciliatory, embracing and inclusive style of politics.
According to the AK Party, the way out of both the corruption and corruption of value-free politics and the shallowness and incompetence of politics devoid of knowledge is "a moral politics that is mixed with reason, science and experience".
Since the day it was founded, the AK Party has acted in accordance with the feelings and values of the people, which is the reason for its existence, with the idea that "Politics that loses its purpose loses its future", and has
been striving to improve the living conditions of the Turkish people and to reinforce their honor and dignity.
The July 22nd general elections will mean for the AK Party a renewal of the mandate it has received from the nation and a renewal of the power and support it has received from the nation.
With its election manifesto, the AK Party, which attaches importance to consistency and continuity in politics, aims to develop 5 years of experience, accumulation and achievements and take them to a new stage.
This manifesto is a new expansion of our Party Program, an updated and improved version of our previous election manifesto, and a continuation of the practices we promised in our Emergency Action Plan and realized in our Government Program.
This manifesto, which is based on the idea of decisively continuing the structural transformations we have been implementing since 2002, also sheds light on our 2013 targets and our 2023 targets, when we will celebrate the 100th anniversary of the founding of our Republic.
The basis of this Declaration is to elevate our people,
to develop our country,
to strengthen our state.
Our manifesto is also a product of our political understanding that represents the social center and embraces Turkey as one and whole.
Our priorities are based on maintaining our political and economic stability while
strengthening our social stability against the factors that negatively affect our social structure.
For five years, we have been proudly carrying the authority we received from our nation in the November 3 elections, and we have been working day and night with the same love to be worthy of our nation.
Now, on July 22nd, we are going to our nation again, and with the strong authority of the national will, we aspire to serve Turkey and Turkish people for another 5 years.
We have many more investments to complete, many
more projects to start.
Above all, preserving the confidence and stability we have built with great difficulty,
We have a lot of work to do with the love of Turkey to strengthen our democracy and Republic.
Now, we are once again asking for authorization from our beloved nation to finish the work we have started and to initiate giant steps that will further strengthen Turkey.
Our government has shown in nearly 5 years that poverty, backwardness and instability are not the destiny of this nation.
The environment of trust and stability established by the AK Party government has paved the way for Turkey with investment and development moves, democratic reforms and programs of change, and
instilled hope in our nation for a brighter future.
AK Party is the assurance of hope, the
architect of a Turkey that develops and flourishes in justice.
AK Party, which places the principle of "giving to the nation what belongs to the nation" at the heart of its social policies,  is a cadre that has internalized the understanding of being "nobody for the orphans".
Our fundamental policy is to continue the EU accession process with determination and to raise Turkey above the level of contemporary civilizations.
There is no obstacle that the Turkish nation, whose self-confidence is getting stronger, cannot overcome.
The Republic of Turkey, a secular, democratic and social state of law, will continue its historic march with the same enthusiasm and determination as the day it was founded.
One nation, one flag, one homeland, one state is the essence of our politics.
AK Party is the name of unity politics in Turkey.
AK Party is the only address to serve the nation.
AK Party is the republic,
of democracy,
It is also the guarantee of secularism.
The AK Party was founded by the nation.
The nation kneaded the dough of the AK Party.
The fabric of the AK Party is woven by the nation.
AK Party is the party of the nation,
is the power of the nation.
The real holder of power is the nation.
The true source of legitimacy is the nation.
THE DECISION IS THE NATION'S.
ON JULY 22ND WE ASK FOR A NEW AUTHORIZATION FROM OUR BELOVED NATION.
KEEP GOING, KEEP GOING
EVERYTHING FOR TURKEY
DEMOCRACY AND THE RULE OF LAW
The Republic of Turkey, 'democratic',
'secular' and
'social'
is a 'rule of law'.
These qualities, which are determined by the unchangeable provisions of our Constitution, are a whole
and are the 'fundamental values of the Republic'.
One of these qualities cannot be preferred over the other, nor can they be used against each other.
The Justice and Development Party is the defender of the integrity of these fundamental values defined in the Constitution
and the guarantor of Turkey rising on this integrity.
Democracy is a political regime in which sovereignty belongs to the nation.
In democracies, the final decision-making and implementation authority rests with elected bodies and institutions established within predetermined rules of law.
The authority of the political majority, which derives its authority from the will of the nation, to take decisions for which it bears responsibility while adhering to the law, the constitution, universal rights and freedoms cannot be disputed.
But democracy is a pluralist as well as a majority rule.
It is essential that political decisions are made on the basis of the widest possible consultation and consensus.
This need for consensus requires the continuous development of a participatory practice for governments.
and institutions need to be created.
In democracies, opposition institutions that try to influence the government with their criticisms and suggestions are as important as the governments.
and is accountable to the people.
Democracy is a regime of rights and freedoms.
In this respect, secularism is a liberating model for different lifestyles
and a rule of social peace.
No one can be accused of religious beliefs and convictions, nor can
anyone force the order of the state to be based on religious belief and understanding.
As stated in the preamble of Article 2 of the Constitution, secularism means that 'every individual can have the belief and sect of his/her choice, can worship and should not be treated differently from other citizens because of his/her religious beliefs.
According to our Constitution, another fundamental characteristic of the Republic of Turkey is the principle of 'social state'.
The social state is the name of an understanding that sees the state at the service of the whole society.
Ensuring that all our citizens can live in a healthy, educated, peaceful and secure environment,
The AK Party's main goal and raison d'être in politics is to make individuals confident about tomorrow, trusting the state, each other and themselves.
The foundation of all these principles and rules is the 'rule of law'.
A state based on the rule of law is the
guarantee of the rights and freedoms of its citizens.
Respect for the universal principles of hukukun in a democratic state of law,
openness of remedies,
equality before the law,
protection of individual rights and freedoms,
guaranteeing the state's adherence to the law are indispensable fundamental values.
These fundamental values, which find expression in the Constitution, are also the basis and main objectives of the Justice and Development Party's political approach.
The concept of 'justice' in the name of the Justice and Development Party is not only the guarantee of our rights before the law and the state's adherence to the law, but also the
expression of an understanding of social responsibility that includes the achievement of a humane living order for all our citizens in all areas of life.
Our government has prioritized the strengthening of democracy
and has brought Turkish democracy to universal standards with its legal reforms.
It has carried democratic demands to the field of economy, has
placed growth and development on a democratic line, and has
given meaning to democratic values within our own cultural world.
Thus, the AK Party has strengthened its "rule of law" character.
and democracy has made significant progress in gaining breadth and depth.
The Justice and Development Party, which finds its source in the people and draws its strength from the people, is democratic,
secular
and social
is the guarantee of the rule of law.
A new constitution
As we approach the 100th anniversary of our Republic, our country deserves a civilian consensus constitution.
Our party is in favor of the new constitution being a social contract that regulates the relations between the state-society-individual on the basis of rights, freedoms and responsibilities.
The new constitution should fully realize the principles of democratic, secular and social state of law, which are the unchangeable fundamental characteristics of our Republic,
protect the rights of individuals in the most effective way, and
guarantee fundamental rights and freedoms in accordance with the principles and standards of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the European Convention on Human Rights.
The new constitution to be drafted should be concise and clear; the
relations between the legislative, executive and judicial powers should be clearly defined on the basis of the parliamentary system; the
position and powers of the President should be redefined within this framework; and a
transition from representative democracy to participatory democracy should be ensured.
The new Constitution should be drafted with the broadest social consensus.
Fundamental Rights and Freedoms
Human beings are born with inalienable and inalienable fundamental rights and freedoms.
Fundamental rights and freedoms, which are a common value of humanity, are a prerequisite for living a dignified life under state rule.
Our Party, acting on the idea of "Let the people live so that the state may live", has put human beings at the center of all its policies.
The ultimate aim of democracy and the rule of law is to guarantee all fundamental rights and freedoms and to
ensure that people live in security, free from fear and anxiety.
To this end, very important arrangements were made during the first term of service of the AK Party and the area of fundamental rights and freedoms was expanded:
In this context, 6 reform packages expanding the area of fundamental rights and freedoms were realized.
Within the framework of these packages; the closure of political parties has been made more difficult,
Amendments have been made to our procedural laws in order to consider the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights as a reason for 'Renewal of the Trial' for our citizens who use their individual application right against the decisions of our courts,
the exercise of freedom of expression is expanded,
To be able to broadcast in languages and dialects other than Turkish traditionally used by our citizens in their daily lives
and the possibility of opening special courses to learn them has been introduced,
The functioning and structure of the National Security Council and the Secretariat General of the National Security Council have been changed,
Investigations and prosecutions against those who commit the crime of torture are considered urgent,
and the prohibition on the conversion of the sentences imposed on them into fines or other measures,
State Security Courts were abolished,
The Revised European Social Charter was ratified.
The Law on the Right to Information and the Law on Associations were enacted.
The new Press Law was enacted with the awareness that freedom of the press is not only a freedom for those who use it, but also a fundamental right for individuals and masses.
The United Nations "International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights" and the "International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights" were ratified and made part of our domestic law.
Removal of obstacles to the exercise of fundamental rights and freedoms
and its expansion has resulted in a decrease in the number of applications to the European Court of Human Rights.
Fundamental rights and freedoms, which are too important to be considered in connection with the domestic conditions of the country, have ceased to be the subject of domestic law and have become the subject of international regulations.
Turkey has ratified and incorporated the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the European Convention on Human Rights into its domestic law.
Moreover, it has started negotiations with the EU because it has sufficiently fulfilled the Copenhagen Criteria, which are prerequisites for full membership of the European Union and place a special emphasis on fundamental rights and freedoms.
That in democratic regimes, political powers and bureaucratic structures cannot interfere with the exercise of fundamental rights and freedoms;
The AK Party advocates the full realization of fundamental rights and freedoms guaranteed by international conventions;
It will implement the principles set out in international conventions to which Turkey is a party on fundamental rights and freedoms,
In particular, it will ensure full compliance with the Copenhagen Political Criteria.
Not only constitutional and legal guarantees of fundamental rights and freedoms,
actual implementation
and will strive to strengthen it as an established element of our political culture.
It will make an active effort to ensure that everyone can exercise their fundamental rights and freedoms, without disregarding the rights of others and with the awareness that rights and freedoms come with responsibilities.
It will be sensitive to fundamental rights and freedoms and to the problems and demands of different segments of society,
double standards in this area
and will not allow political exploitation.
Within the framework of the "Zero Tolerance" approach, it will pursue the unacceptable human rights violations such as torture, disappearances, deaths in custody and unsolved murders in a democratic state of law with great determination, as it has done so far.
In order to overcome the deficiencies in the field of fundamental rights and freedoms, diğer will seek opportunities for reconciliation and cooperation with political parties and civil society organizations.
In order to ensure that fundamental rights and freedoms do not remain on paper, it will realize sustainable development and
ensure a fairer distribution of resources to all segments of society.
The right to life and property, reorganized with a universal understanding of law and freedom, will fully realize freedom of thought, expression, belief, enterprise and association.
The lack of rights and freedoms lies at the heart of the controversial practices of religious, sectarian, gender and ethnic discrimination.
This deficiency will be overcome with the establishment of a state understanding "based on human rights" that will carry our democracy to a universal level.
A Strong Civil Society
The Justice and Development Party considers the strengthening of civil society and effective public scrutiny within the framework of "good governance" to be essential for the realization of democratic governance.
During the AK Party's rule, many practices and regulations have been put in place to ensure this:
A new Law on Associations was drafted and put into force
, thus removing restrictions on the right to establish associations and ensuring freedom of association in line with the European Convention on Human Rights.
The draft Law on Foundations has been adopted by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey.
With the entry into force of this Law in the coming period, a very important step will be taken towards strengthening civil society.
The Draft Law on Meetings and Demonstrations has been prepared in accordance with the European Convention on Human Rights and the jurisprudence of the European Court of Human Rights and will be enacted as a priority in the önümüzdeki legislative period.
With the 'Regulation on the Procedures and Principles of Legislation Preparation', the views of all relevant actors have been obliged to be taken into account in the preparation of regulations at all levels
and the participation of civil society in decision-making mechanisms has been ensured.
Establishment of "city councils" in the Municipality Law öngörülerek enabled the participation of civil society organizations in local governments.
Various laws and regulatory acts have been enacted that envisage the participation of civil society in decision-making mechanisms.
Countries with strong civil societies are also countries with strong democracies.
In a country where everything is under the permission and control of the state, neither individuals nor civil society nor democracy can develop freely.
The AK Party sees democracy as a process that needs to be continuously developed with the broad participation of the people.
In this context, the pluralist and participatory democratic political process will continue to be more open to civil society organizations
and the views and suggestions of relevant segments of society will continue to be taken into account in political decision-making processes.
The democratization of governance will not only improve the climate of public trust, but will also bring the state closer to the people.
As democracy develops, the legitimacy of the state to govern the people is strengthened
and it gains international prestige.
Governments that draw their power from the people and civil society organizations are more effective in their regions and in the world.
The AK Party will continue to remove legal and administrative barriers to participation in governance and will ensure more active participation of civil society in public administration.
It will develop mechanisms to facilitate the business community, trade unions, professional chambers, farmers' organizations and voluntary organizations to solve their problems together with public officials in their service areas.
The broadest possible social consensus will be sought for fundamental legal and constitutional amendments.
The AK Party considers the independence of the media as a necessity for an effective and transparent civil society in order to realize democratic governance.
The right of individuals to access accurate news is the first condition for a strong democratic culture.
Transparent governance is only possible with an independent, impartial and responsible media.
To this end, necessary steps will be taken to ensure that the media develops in a pluralistic, transparent and competitive structure.
Justice and Judicial Reform
Respect for universal principles of law in democratic countries,
keeping remedies open,
equality before the law,
protection of individual rights and freedoms,
ensuring the adherence of the administration to the law are fundamental values.
The foundation of the rule of law is the "Principle of Justice".
Countries that cannot realize a democratic rule of law and establish trust in justice cannot sustain economic development and social peace.
As its name suggests, the Justice and Development Party is a movement that places the establishment of justice in every field at the center of its political vision.
Our understanding of law and justice is to ensure that the state treats society and individuals with justice without discrimination based on language, race, color, gender, philosophical thought and belief, religion and sectarian affiliation.
Our party sees the law as a tool to ensure justice, not to intimidate and punish.
Our goal is to reduce crime in our society,
a society of peace where there is no fear.
The role of the judiciary is to exercise judicial review.
The politicization of the judiciary means the substitution of judicial review for legal review.
The judiciary must be impartial as well as independent.
An independent and impartial judiciary is a prerequisite for justice.
The most important guarantee of individual rights and freedoms is that those who exercise judicial power exercise their duties impartially in line with the law.
The judicial organization, which was on the public agenda for years with its problems, inadequacies and prison riots, has come of age under the Justice and Development Party with the fundamental laws harmonized with the EU, effective use of information and communication technologies, modern courthouses, and penal and execution institutions brought in line with universal standards.
In this framework, a new criminal justice approach was adopted by enacting the Turkish Penal Code, the Code of Criminal Procedure, the Law on Misdemeanors, the Law on the Execution of Criminal and Security Measures and the Law on Probation.
In this way, the assurance provided by the rule of law to the individual was emphasized and a criminal law order with a libertarian character based on respect for human beings was established.
Our goal is to address the implementation problems that arise in the coming period.
The State Security Courts were abolished through necessary constitutional and legal amendments, and
their duties and powers were transferred to criminal courts specialized in organized crime and terrorism.
Courthouses are equipped with modern tools and equipment in line with the developments of the age and the requirements of the service.
The National Judicial Network Project was launched, enabling the courts to benefit from electronic archive facilities and to
access the necessary information and documents and precedent decisions in a timely manner.
Thus, an order has been established to carry the judicial system to the information society.
Special importance has been attached to the pre-professional and in-professional training and foreign language training of members of the judiciary
and extensive opportunities have been provided in this context.
The institution of "legal aid", which is envisaged for those who cannot benefit from the freedom to seek rights due to financial impossibilities, has been made operational.
Regional Courts of Appeal were established.
With these courts becoming operational, the function of the Court of Cassation as a court of jurisprudence will come to the fore.
A new penal execution system was established
and related practices were brought in line with contemporary norms.
A more organized system for keeping criminal records has been introduced.
Thus, the deprivation of rights arising from the failure to expunge criminal records is prevented.
In the coming period, we will continue our work on justice and judicial reform with determination.
"Protective Law" practices will be further developed to prevent disputes before they arise, and
necessary measures will be taken to ensure that our nation understands their rights regarding basic and daily problems.
Measures will be taken to facilitate the independent and impartial decision-making of persons and institutions exercising judicial authority, and
obstacles to the disruption of justice services will be removed.
Based on the understanding that "justice delayed is injustice", in order to provide justice in a complete and timely manner:Uyuşmazlıkların legal arrangements envisaging alternative means of resolution, especially in legal disputes, will be made in order to ensure that these disputes are resolved in a fast, simple, cost-effective and efficient manner and thus reduce the workload of judicial bodies.
Necessary administrative and legal arrangements will be made to resolve citizens' disputes with state institutions without resorting to judicial remedies, and public officials will be prevented from referring their work to the judiciary.
The share allocated from the general budget to justice services will be increased
and the personnel shortage in the judiciary will be eliminated.
Efforts will continue to strengthen judicial and administrative capacity through legislative efforts to reach EU standards.
Regulations that allow the parties to unnecessarily prolong the proceedings will be abolished.
The number of lawsuits will be reduced by removing the non-contentious judicial proceedings that are currently seen as lawsuits from being lawsuits.
Simplicity and expeditiousness will also be ensured in non-contentious judicial proceedings that are seen in the pattern of litigation.
Citizenship and basic legal knowledge education in the existing curriculum will be strengthened in schools, and the
awareness of seeking rights will be developed.
In the new period, the courts will make more efficient use of electronic archive facilities, timely access to necessary information and documents and precedent decisions will be made more effective, and the
information network established between judicial bodies will be improved.
execution legislation has been brought in line with contemporary norms.
In the future, the remaining problems of prisons and detention houses will be solved with a modern organization, sufficient number of personnel and physical facilities.
In this framework, in execution services, places for detainees and convicts will be separated and
inadequacies in personnel and physical infrastructure of penal execution institutions will be eliminated.
People will be prevented from being deprived of their public rights through administrative decisions, and
judicial decision will be made mandatory for deprivation of public rights.
Restructuring Politics
The source of political will is the nation itself, composed of individuals who make decisions of their own free will within a free social structure.
Any practice that would prevent the free expression or exercise of the will of the nation is unacceptable.
In line with its people-oriented political approach, the Justice and Development Party will ensure that participatory democracy gains more depth through regulations and practices that increase the effectiveness of the will of the nation.
Since its foundation, the AK Party has based its policies on the demands and preferences of the nation.
He always fulfilled his promises to the people and
never made promises he could not fulfill.
It has adopted clean politics as a principle.
In this way, it has regained the social trust and credibility that the political institution had lost in the past.
In addition to the initiatives taken in this regard during our government, in the coming period: Necessary amendments will be made to all laws needed for the democratization of political life, starting with the Constitution.
The Law Proposal submitted to the Parliament by our Party Group to bring transparency and auditability to the accounts of political parties and the expenditures of candidates will be enacted.
"Political Ethics and Declaration of Property" proposed to the Parliament by our Party Group and on the agenda of the Parliament related regulation will be enacted into law.
The restructuring of politics will reinforce the trust and credibility that the Justice and Development Party government has brought to politics and politicians.
Democratization of the internal structure of parties
and the development of membership law.
The effective participation of all voters in political life
and the strengthening of the electoral-electoral relationship will be ensured.
The restructuring of politics will reinforce the trust and credibility that the Justice and Development Party government has brought to politics and politicians.
National Security
The Justice and Development Party is committed to the unity and solidarity of our nation,
the indivisible integrity of our country,
considers the survival of our state and the protection of our unitary structure as the highest priority.
In order to strengthen and protect our national security, our government has been firmly determined to mobilize all the means of our country.
Turkey guarantees its national security within the framework of international law,
It is its most natural right to establish a strong security line against internal and external threats.
Based on the principle of "peace at home, peace in the world", the AK Party sees Turkey's national security as the guarantee of regional and global security and stability.
The AK Party is uncompromising against any formations that would threaten our national security, the indivisible integrity of our country and our unitary state structure.
As part of our utmost care for Turkey's security, we want all our policies to be complementary to each other,
We attach vital importance to the strengthening of all defense mechanisms of society against the exploited areas of weakness.
We know well that the greatest power that no focus of violence and terror can penetrate is the spirit of unity and solidarity of our nation.
Together with its 70 million citizens, Turkey will forever protect its security, its borders and the independence it won through a great struggle.
Our country has been facing the scourge of separatist terrorism for the last 30 years.
In this process, social and economic problems and cultural sensitivities were constantly exploited
and our country paid a heavy price.
The AK Party has taken a broad view of Turkey's national security,
It has shown great determination in ensuring our internal and external security by evaluating the military, diplomatic, economic, cultural and social dimensions of security as a whole,
Our government is committed to strengthening the common sense of belonging of all our citizens.
and implemented effective and comprehensive policies to eradicate the sources of terrorism.
To accelerate social and economic development in every corner of Turkey,
We have been working hard to ensure that no region is left behind.
We launched a service mobilization in areas such as education, health, justice, roads, drinking water, especially in the East and Southeast regions, which had been neglected for years.
We have realized incomparable increases in the number of schools and hospitals in these regions compared to previous periods.
We wanted to ensure that there was not a single village without roads and drinking water and we have achieved this to a great extent.
We strengthened our national unity and solidarity by meeting the hopes, demands and expectations of the people of the region to the maximum extent.
During our period in power, we effectively defended Turkey's rightful position in the fight against terrorism on every international platform.
By increasing the international effectiveness of our country,
we have made the world public opinion accept our country's theses in the fight against terrorism.
We have ensured that the separatist terrorist organization is included in the list of terrorist organizations and that very serious restrictions are imposed on its activities and financial resources abroad.
We will continue our fight to strengthen our national security by using all legitimate means
ECONOMY
The Justice and Development Party government has achieved great success in the field of economy.
The 2003-2007 period is recorded as one of the brightest periods in the history of the Republic.
During this period, Turkey was called a "rising star" among developing countries and was
praised all over the world as an "example of success".
In the coming period, the AK Party will further increase the international reputation and effectiveness of our country, build
on the successes we have achieved in the economy, and will
never allow a pause or a reversal.
As we frequently emphasized before the November 2002 elections, we have the resources to achieve this: The source is "Turkey".
The concept of "trust" is at the center of all the policies and governance approach of the Justice and Development Party government.
The most important reason for the historical successes we have achieved in the field of economy is the environment of trust we have created in our country.
In the past period, the AK Party government has implemented the transparent economic policies it announced with a strong political will,
kept its promises and acted on
the principle of "we will not be deceived".
Thus, it reassured the public and the markets.
Trust is hard to earn, it takes time.
Losing it happens very quickly.
It should not be forgotten that this environment of trust, which we have created in a meticulous and painstaking process during the AK Party's rule and which has paid off with striking successes, can be lost very quickly in incompetent hands.
The AK Party's economic policies are based on the principles of "transparency", "continuity", "consistency" and "predictability".
In a world of intensifying competition and increasing mobility of information, capital and manpower, trust in governments is the basis for economic decisions.
Governments that put forward realistic policies, do not fall into the trap of populism, act with a long-term perspective and produce permanent solutions gain the trust of the public and create a favorable environment for economic actors.
The AK Party's economic policies are based on the principles of "transparency", "continuity", "consistency" and "predictability".
Our government shares its actions and the results with all interested parties in a very transparent manner, and we are experiencing the benefits of this.
It takes care to ensure that all elements of the policies are consistent with each other, and that
all implementations are carried out in the direction of achieving common goals.
It does not change policy from evening to morning,
By ensuring continuity in practices, it creates a reliable environment for the public and economic decision-makers.
With documents such as the "Development Plan", the "Medium Term Program", the "Pre-Accession Economic Program" and the "Medium Term Financial Plan", the AK Party government has brought unprecedented predictability to economic policies.
These documents, the quality of which is recognized internationally, clearly set out targets, forecasts and areas for structural reform.
Aware of the damage caused to our country by an unpredictable economic management approach even in short periods of time such as a week or a month, our government has brought new perspectives to our country with these documents covering 3-year and 7-year periods.
The AK Party government has made Turkey a much more "predictable" country in the long term by initiating the accession process towards full membership of the European Union, which has contributed significantly to increasing prosperity and strengthening stability in our country.
The European Union goal helps our country to move closer to universal standards in areas such as democracy, fundamental rights and freedoms, and the rule of law.
It also provides a roadmap for what Turkey will do in the coming period in many areas such as institutional structures and sectoral policies.
The EU objective, which plays an important role in national and international investors' preference for Turkey as an investment destination and in increasing investments, economic growth and thus employment, puts the future of our economy in a strong framework.
A healthy and functioning market economy can be built on a strong and established democratic foundation.
The protection of fundamental rights, respect for
fundamental freedoms and the
existence of the rule of law with all its rules and institutions
constitute the main dynamics of sustainable economic development.
Recognizing this reality from the very beginning, our Party integrated its successful economic program with democratization efforts and considered these two processes as complementary components.
A functioning legal order based on contemporary norms is a prerequisite for economic development.
A legal system that ensures security of life and property, is free from arbitrariness and above day-to-day debates and political influences ensures that economic activities are carried out with confidence and predictability.
In an environment where unfair competition is prevented, intellectual property rights are protected, consumer rights are not violated, and there is no discrimination between parties to contracts, uncertainties will be reduced,
reliability and predictability will be ensured, and
thus investment, production and employment will increase.
A healthy and functioning market economy can be built on a strong and established democratic foundation.
The main objective of the Justice and Development Party's economic policies is to increase the welfare and happiness of our people.
Our Party is based on the human being as the source and target of economic development.
Knowing that in today's competitive world, investments in people, their qualifications and a healthy social environment are also investments in our economic potential, we have integrated our economic policies with strong social policies
and launched a period of social restoration.
This approach, which will become more prominent in the coming years, will make our country a center of attraction for both capital and qualified minds, while also
serving our goal of a society of healthy and happy individuals.
The main objective of the Justice and Development Party's economic policies is to increase the welfare and happiness of our people.
Our Party is based on the human being as the source and target of economic development.
The growth potential of our economy exceeds the forecasts.
To reach this high potential, economic growth needs to be based on "productivity growth", as it was in the 2003-2007 period.
In other words, it is necessary to ensure that total factor productivity continues to increase in our economy.
A lasting increase in social welfare can only be sustained by improving the competitive environment in the goods and services sectors and thereby increasing productivity.
One of the most important issues in improving the competitive environment is the withdrawal of the state from the production of goods and services and its
emphasis on regulation and supervision functions.
In this framework, our party does not only consider privatization practices as a source of income for the public, but also as an
important policy tool that will increase productivity in production and employment.
In addition, work on this issue is carried out with great social sensitivity.
As our economy opens up and integrates much better with the international market, the welfare of our people will increase.
The race among both developed and developing countries to attract international direct investment faster is becoming increasingly fierce.
One of our main goals is to ensure that international direct investments, which bring international know-how and technology, increase competitiveness, constitute an important source of financing in terms of external balance, open up new markets and, most importantly, increase employment, come to Turkey at increasing rates.
The Lost Years
The 1990s, which were characterized by inefficient coalition structures, politics conducted in a narrow framework disconnected from the people and vicious bickering, were literally the "lost years" of our country.
These years, characterized by the crises of 1994, 1999 and finally 2001, were a period in which growth stalled, inflation, interest rates and debt burden skyrocketed, unemployment increased, the rent economy and corruption rose to levels that shook macro balances, our people, especially our youth, lost hope for the future, and our international reputation was lost.
November 2002: A Turning Point in Our Political and Economic History
Immediately after the AK Party government took office, political stability strengthened rapidly and
it started to implement a very comprehensive economic program that it had announced in full detail before the elections.
Our party has kept the promises it made in its 2002 election manifesto and
has not let the trust in its political leadership, cadres and program go to waste.
It not only healed the wounds of the crises, but also
resolutely took the necessary measures to prevent similar crises from occurring again.
One of the key elements of our economic program is fiscal discipline.
The AK Party government has met the budget targets it has announced year after year.
Another element of our program is the monetary policies implemented by the Central Bank within the framework of the principle of independence.
The main priority of monetary policies is price stability.
The AK Party has achieved great success in the fight against inflation.
The free flow of capital in and out of Turkey is another fundamental element of our economic program.
An open economic structure is a key factor for our success.
Another element of our program is the "free exchange rate regime".
The formation of the exchange rate under market conditions ensures that our economy is less affected by internal or external shocks.
The AK Party government has laid a permanent foundation for its economic achievements with its structural reforms.
It has made the Turkish economy much more protected against internal or external influences.
It has completed many of the reforms envisaged in the economic program in areas such as the public sector, the financial sector and social security.
The AK Party government has so far managed the process of change well by anticipating possible risks.
Compared to previous periods, today our country is much more stable, much more prosperous and our economy is much stronger.
In 2006, our economy continued its steady growth trend since 2002
and grew for the first time in 20 quarters without interruption.
Our economy, which grew by only 0.3 percent on average between 1997 and 2001, grew by 7.3 percent on average between 2003 and 2006.
Our national income, which was 181 billion dollars in 2002, increased 2.2 times and reached 400 billion dollars in 2006 and our country became the 17th largest economy of the world.
According to national income figures calculated according to Purchasing Power Parity, Turkey became the 6th largest economy in Europe in 2006.
Per capita national income rose from US$ 2,598 in 2002 to US$ 5,477 by the end of 2006.
The AK Party government restored the dignity of the Turkish currency and six zeros were removed from the lira in a successful operation.
The sustained and rapid growth achieved through a private sector-oriented, productivity-enhancing and open approach has gone down in history as a rare achievement.
Between 2002 and 2006, investment expenditures of the private sector increased by 154 percent in real terms and a
total of 193 billion dollars of private sector investment was realized in the last 4 years.
Total manufacturing industry productivity has increased significantly in the last 4 years.
The cumulative increase in manufacturing industry labor productivity in this period exceeded 30 percent.
While rapid growth was achieved,
inflation was simultaneously brought down.
After 34 years, inflation was brought down to single digits for the first time.
The AK Party government restored the dignity of the Turkish currency and six zeros were removed from the lira in a successful operation.
The new Turkish Lira is now a currency that both our people and international investors trust.
The economic and social policies implemented during the Justice and Development Party period led to improvements in income distribution.
During this period, significant improvements were achieved in the gini coefficient, which indicates inequality in income distribution.
The gini coefficient, which was 0.44 in 2002, dropped to 0.38 in 2005.
While in 2002 the richest 20 percent earned 9.5 times the income of the poorest 20 percent, this ratio dropped to 7.3 in 2005.
According to purchasing power parity, the ratio of individuals living below 1 dollar per capita per day to the total population decreased from 2 per thousand in 2002 to 1 per ten thousand in 2005.
This rate is 13 percent in China, 8 percent in Mexico and Brazil, and 2 percent in Russia.
The ratio of those living below $2.15 per day to the total population dropped from 3.04 percent in 2002 to 1.55 percent in 2005. The
unemployment rate dropped from 10.3 percent in 2002 to 9.9 percent in 2006, and
976 thousand new jobs were created in this period.
Prices of many products, such as automobiles and white goods, have fallen and
consumption levels have increased dramatically compared to the past.
While 977 thousand automobiles were sold in the four-year period until the end of 2002, this number increased to 1 million 490 thousand in the four-year period between 2003 and 2006.
Sales of white goods, which include washing machines, dishwashers, ovens and refrigerators, increased from 12 million 220 thousand in the four-year period until the end of 2002 to 18 million 763 thousand in the four-year period between 2003 and 2006.
The foreign trade volume of our country, which has opened up to the world and gained self-confidence, has also shown a striking growth.
In the 2002-2006 period, our foreign trade volume increased from 87 billion dollars to 223 billion dollars.
While the export volume was 36 billion dollars in 2002, the 12-month export figure reached 94 billion dollars as of May 2007.
The share of global direct investments in financing the current account deficit has increased significantly.
Global direct capital inflows, which had hovered around USD 1 billion on average for years, took a quantum leap and reached USD 20.2 billion in 2006.
In the first four months of 2007, direct capital inflows exceeded 10 billion dollars.
The Central Bank's foreign exchange reserves, which were USD 26.8 billion at the end of 2002, reached their highest historical level in May 2006 and exceeded USD 65 billion.
Thus, the resilience of our economy to external shocks has increased.
The coverage ratios of total reserves to imports and short-term debt improved favorably.
Budget discipline is ensured,
worries about rolling over public debt are a thing of the past.
While the ratio of public deficits to national income was 12.6 percent in 2006, by the end of 2006 this deficit had turned into a surplus, with a surplus of around 3.2 percent of national income.
The ratio of program-defined primary surplus to GNP increased from 0.4 percent in 1993-2002 to 6.5 percent in 2003-2006.
While privatization between 1985 and 2002 amounted to only US$ 8 billion, privatization since then has reached US$ 30.6 billion.
2004Thus, while reducing the weight of the public sector in the economy
2005The role of the private sector was increased.
2006 The withdrawal of the state from production and trade in many sectors has enabled the development of a free market economy.
We are targeting not only the next 5 years, but also 2013 and 2023, the 100th year of our Republic.
Our main goal in the new period is to strengthen the economic security and defense system of our people, our companies and our state, bireysel and to increase our social welfare.
Thus, we will further strengthen our economy by focusing on real stability, growth, development and job creation.
Our private sector's dynamism and productivity gains will again be at the forefront of the high growth we will achieve in the coming years.
As AK Party, we will continue to implement policies that will pave the way for our private sector.
For this purpose, in addition to maintaining macroeconomic stability, it will make the necessary reforms and legal arrangements to ensure competition, especially the prevention of informality, which will bring productivity increases in the goods and services sectors,
We will protect consumer rights at the highest level.
In 2013, per capita income exceeded 10,000 dollars (15,000 dollars according to purchasing power parity),
Its national income has reached 800 billion dollars,
He brought inflation down to "low single digits",
unemployment rate even lower,
Its exports exceeded 200 billion dollars,
We aim for a stronger and more prosperous Turkey with tourism revenues approaching 40 billion dollars.
Within the framework of the program we announced in April 2007, which we will implement until 2013 for Turkey's harmonization with the EU Acquis, we will complete some 200 legal regulations and 600 secondary regulations necessary for economic change and transformation.
In 2023, our main target is for Turkey to be among the top 10 economies of the world in terms of national product size according to purchasing parity.
During the AK Party rule, we realized rapid growth by ensuring trust and stability.
In the period ahead, we will improve the quality of growth and make stability permanent.
It will strengthen stability through growth,
we will make it sustainable.
We will focus on real stability, prioritizing the real economy.
We will never compromise on the core elements of our economic program.
We will resolutely maintain fiscal discipline.
Fighting inflation will remain our main priority.
We will maintain the free exchange rate regime.
Capital inflows and outflows will remain free.
We will implement our structural reforms with determination.
Fiscal Policy
The fundamental element of our economic program is fiscal discipline.
It is only through fiscal discipline that the public debt burden will continue to fall, the current account deficit will be kept under control and inflation will be brought down even further.
The AK Party government achieved great success in achieving fiscal discipline in the 2003-2007 period
and realized many structural reforms to make this discipline permanent.
We ensured public accountability and financial transparency.
We have reorganized the implementation of budgets, accounting and reporting of financial transactions and financial control.
With the Public Financial Management and Control Law, we introduced a system of strategic planning, performance-based budgeting and performance auditing to ensure the effective and efficient use of public resources.
Since 2005, we started to prepare our programs and budgets for three years instead of annually.
We established mechanisms to strengthen the plan-program-budget relationship
and redefined the budget preparation process and budget scope.
We liquidated the system of on-budget and off-budget funds that distorted fiscal transparency in the public sector, eliminated
regulations that allowed over-appropriation, and
ended special revenue-special appropriation practices in order to strengthen budget discipline and expand the scope of the budget.
The new procurement law, which aims to increase efficiency and prevent corruption through competitive and transparent procurement rules and ensures compliance with international norms, was put into force during our term in power.
We eliminated the disorganization in the legislation on borrowing and debt management.
We made arrangements to ensure transparency, accountability and discipline in borrowing, covering the payment, recording and reporting of our financial obligations.
We said we would open a "white page in taxation" and we did.
With the Tax Peace Law, we brought interest deductions and ease of payment to those with tax debts,
liquidated 130 thousand disputed files and generated TL 4.7 quadrillion in revenue.
We reduced the upper bracket tax rate in income tax from 45% to 35%.
- We said we would abolish the "where did you get it" practice, which had a deterrent effect on the business world, and we did so.
We said we would reduce the tax rates and the number of taxes, and we did that.
We reduced the top bracket tax rate in income tax from 45% to 35%.
We reduced the number of slices.
Thus, we reduced the tax burden in income tax
and simplified the tax system.
We reduced the Value Added Tax rate from 18% to 8% on education, health and tourism services, medicine, basic foodstuffs, clothing, apparel and textiles.
- As an important step in encouraging investments and direct global capital, we reduced the corporate tax rate from 33% to 20%.
Despite all these reductions, we achieved a steady increase in tax revenues.
We have introduced inflation accounting, which many governments have been talking about for years but never realized.
We have made significant progress in the fight against the informal economy.
We strengthened the capacity of the revenue administration and the technological infrastructure of tax inspection units.
We established the Revenue Administration, which focuses exclusively on revenue collection and audit functions.
We ended the ordeal of collecting receipts for our pensioners and employees.
We automated tax offices within the scope of tax automation projects.
We enabled our taxpayers to submit their insurance and tax returns electronically.
We saved our citizens from waiting in queues at tax and insurance offices.
While ensuring fiscal discipline, the AK Party government also implemented important policies to change the structure of expenditures.
While the share of interest expenditures in budget expenditures decreased, the share of social expenditures, investment expenditures and personnel expenditures increased.
Education has become the number one expenditure item.
The share of interest expenditures in the budget declined from 44.2 percent in 2002 to 27 percent at the end of 2006.
The share of investment expenditures increased from 7.2 percent to 9.7 percent, while the
share of personnel expenditures rose from 19.6 percent to 25.5 percent.
As a result of the fact that we started to allocate more and more resources to public investments and to determine our priorities more accurately, the total stock of public investment projects dropped from 4-414 in 2002 to 2,525 in 2006.
We finished projects that were close to completion first, and
removed unrealistic projects from the investment program.
The average completion time of public investments decreased from 8.5 years to 5.5 years.
We are now making more investments
and these investments are put into the service of our people in a much shorter period of time.
While in 2002, 9.5 percent of the budget was allocated for the expenditures of social security institutions, by the end of 2006, we allocated 15.8 percent of the budget for the expenditures of social security institutions.
Despite limited budgetary means, we have increased the salaries of our public servants and workers well above inflation.
As a result of our successful fiscal policy implementations, the ratio of central government budget deficit to GNP dropped from 14.6 percent in 2003 to 0.7 percent in 2006.
The budget deficit as a percentage of GDP was the lowest in the last 30 years.
The ratio of interest expenditures to GNP also fell rapidly,
from 18.7 percent in 2002 to 8 percent in 2006.
This also created a more favorable budget expenditure structure for social spending.
Debt management, which was carried out successfully and in harmony with fiscal and monetary policies, stood out as one of the most successful areas of the AK Party government.
Public Sector Net Debt Stock increased from YTL 216 billion in 2002 to YTL 274 billion in 2004.
After 2004, the net debt stock started to decline and reached YTL 258 billion by the end of 2006.
The ratio of Total Public Net Debt Stock to GNP declined from 78 percent at end-2002 to 45 percent at end-2006.
In the said period, the share of FX and FX-indexed debt in debt stock decreased, while the share of New Turkish Lira-denominated debt increased.
The debt stock has been more protected against exchange rate and interest rate risks.
The direct and most striking reflection of fiscal discipline was seen in borrowing costs.
The interest rate on discounted Government Domestic Debt Securities (GDDS) denominated in New Turkish Lira, which was 64 percent in October 2002, declined to 14 percent in April 2006.
Despite recent adverse domestic and external developments, the interest rate on government securities was realized at 18-19 percent as of May 2007.
In October 2002, the realized real interest rate of discounted debt securities issued was 36 percent.
The expected real interest rate on discounted securities is around 10 percent as of May 2007.
The risk premium of the bonds we issued abroad also dropped significantly.
The risk premium of the USD-denominated 10-year bonds we issued abroad relative to the US Treasury bonds, which was 7 percent in December 2002, decreased to 2 percent in the January 2007 issue.
The average maturity of domestic borrowing increased from 9 months in 2002 to 37 months in January-May 2007.
For the first time since the beginning of borrowing from domestic markets, YTL denominated debt securities with a maturity of 7 years were issued.
Between November 2002 and May 2007, we issued four dollar-denominated debt securities with a maturity of 30 years and, for the first time, euro-denominated debt securities with a maturity of 12 years.
An environment of economic stability and confidence is a prerequisite for raising the standard of living of our citizens.
As AK Party, we are also aware of the importance of maintaining the success we have achieved in the economy in increasing the international reputation of our country.
AK Party government will continue the fiscal discipline it has provided in order to maintain macroeconomic stability and growth performance.
Necessary steps will be taken to ensure the successful continuation of our fiscal policies,
reforms will be strengthened.
The budgets of the coming years will be implemented with full determination and fiscal discipline in line with our Party's economic and public finance policies.
Thus, the inflation rate will be brought down further, the current account deficit will be kept under control and the ratio of public debt stock to GDP will be further reduced.
The main objective of the tax policies we will implement is to reduce informality in the economy,
increase our competitiveness and
create a simpler, fairer and broad-based tax system.
In this context, we will increase predictability in tax policies.
We will simplify tax legislation.
We will continue the fight against the informal economy, corruption and black money.
We will gradually abolish taxes on transactions, especially stamp tax, which is the biggest obstacle to the establishment of document order.
Within the framework of policies to support investments and employment, we will make arrangements to reduce tax and similar burdens on employment, taking into account fiscal discipline.
We will strengthen the technical and administrative infrastructure of all relevant public institutions, particularly the Revenue Administration and the Undersecretariat of Customs, and we will effectively combat smuggling, with priority given to fuel, tobacco products and alcoholic beverages.
We will prioritize public spending, taking into account budget balances, economic and social returns, and their impact on potential growth.
In this framework, we aim to use the savings to reduce the tax burden on production and employment and to implement structural reforms that will increase efficiency, transparency and accountability in the public expenditure system.
The main policies that the Justice and Development Party will implement regarding expenditures in the coming period will be as follows: Financial management, internal control and internal audit activities will be implemented effectively in public administrations.
Institutions will review resource allocation in line with the identified priorities, taking into account budget constraints.
In this context, activities and projects that have lost their priority will be eliminated.
We will expand the strategic planning and performance-based budgeting system to ensure effectiveness and efficiency in resource utilization and increase accountability.
We will not let public sector workers be crushed by inflation.
We will implement a comprehensive personnel reform based on simplifying the wage system, eliminating imbalances and injustices regarding the financial and personal rights of public personnel, adopting a performance-based wage system, and reducing the number of existing statuses.
We will increase the share of social spending in total public spending.
We will complete the corporate governance system project initiated to ensure accountability, transparency and flexibility in decision-making processes in SEEs and to reduce the number of institutions with intervention authority over SEEs.
The AK Party government will increase the efficiency of public investments.
It will direct investments to infrastructure that will address priority social needs and support productive activities, and will
use it as an effective tool to realize sectoral, regional and EU harmonization objectives.
In this framework; we will continue the effective, efficient and timely realization of public investments with the same determination.
We will continue to prioritize investments in education, health, technological research, transportation, irrigation, drinking water and e-government.
We will use public investments as an effective tool for regional development and reducing regional development disparities.
We will accelerate the investments required for the implementation of the policies and priorities for EU membership.
We will develop models to increase private sector participation in public infrastructure investments.
We will expand models that will enable the private sector to build and operate some infrastructure investments that have traditionally been funded by public resources.
We will provide public-private partnership models, which solve the resource problem for public investments and increase efficiency in investment and operation phases, with a solid legal basis in line with the EU acquis.
The main objective of our borrowing policy is to meet public financing needs at the lowest cost, taking into account the risks, maturity, currency and interest rate composition of borrowing.
We will continue to maintain adequate reserves to mitigate liquidity risks in cash and debt management.
Total borrowing will be predominantly in YTL and fixed rate instruments, and
we will extend the maturity structure of borrowing to the extent market conditions permit.
In line with these objectives and strategies, the goal of our government in its second term is to further reduce the ratio of public debt to national income and interest rates to single digits.
Reducing Informal Economic Activities
The thesis that "informality helps enterprises gain competitive advantage and survive" has lost its validity in today's conditions where globalization has increased and large-scale enterprises hold the competitive power with the increase in productivity.
On the contrary, our Party sees informality as a problem that reduces the productivity of enterprises, hinders their growth and reduces their competitiveness.
We have taken important steps to reduce the informal economy during our term in power.
In this context, we made it compulsory for financial institutions to use the tax identification number of the parties to transactions to be carried out by financial institutions in the relevant documents and records.
We introduced the practice of making collections and payments exceeding YTL 8,000 through banks and PTT.
We have completed the work on the use of the Republic of Turkey ID number instead of the tax ID number.
We started to install cash registers at fuel pumps and introduced national marker.
We launched the Fight against Unregistered Employment (KADlM) Project, which aims to ensure coordination among public institutions, inform citizens and increase inspections in the fight against unregistered employment.
On the other hand, measures to increase the competitiveness of the economy, improve the business environment and develop the financial system will also play an important role in reducing the informal economy.
In the period ahead, combating informality will be one of our priority areas.
Efforts to combat informality, which is caused by many economic and social reasons rather than unilateral approaches such as focusing only on auditing or reducing legal burdens, will be accelerated in line with a comprehensive strategy.
In this framework, we will reduce tax, premium and similar burdens on employers.
We will strengthen coordination among public institutions involved in auditing, ensure information sharing through IT, and increase cross-checks.
We will strengthen sanctions.
We will introduce a single declaration for the collection of tax and social security contributions.
We will start using modern methods for the collection of social security premiums and
utilize contracted lawyers in the collection of premium receivables.
We will avoid any amnesty that undermines public confidence and encourages informality.
- We will gradually introduce the practice of paying wages through banks based on criteria such as the size of enterprises, the sector in which they operate and the amount of wages.
We will provide trainings on tax and social security at schools and universities.
We will launch awareness-raising campaigns on informality across the country.
In particular, we will continue to improve the quality of tax and social security services and
reduce queues and queuing by moving all transactions to the internet.
We will avoid any amnesty that undermines public trust and encourages informality.
Fighting Inflation and Monetary Policy
The Justice and Development Party sees inflation as the most important obstacle to a lasting, rapid and equitable development process. In
the 25-year period before the 2002 elections, inflation was always high and fluctuating, despite the stability programs implemented at regular intervals.
When we took over the government, inflation was around 30%, one of the highest rates in the world, and
high and fluctuating inflation was the most important reason for unstable and low growth performance.
The promise we made in our November 2002 election manifesto was to bring inflation down to single digits.
We realized this promise during our period in power.
We gradually brought inflation down to 7.7 percent by the end of 2005. In
2006, despite two major exchange rate fluctuations, inflation was 9.7 percent by the end of the year.
At a time when we achieved sustained and high growth, the decline in inflation was also praised and appreciated by the world economic circles.
As a result of the confidence we gained in the fight against inflation, we removed 6 zeros from our currency in 2005.
We switched to the New Turkish Lira by getting rid of this sediment, which had accumulated as a bad memory of the old irresponsible political periods, thanks to our success in the struggle we fought together with our nation through responsible and conscious policies.
As of January 2009, we will remove the 'New' from our currency and we will have a stable Turkish Lira that we will be proud of as a nation.
With the improvement in fiscal balances, we restored confidence in the New Turkish Lira.
The YTL has now regained its function as an instrument of value accumulation and savings.
International financial institutions and other countries (World Bank, Austrian Treasury, European Investment Bank, etc.) started to borrow by issuing YTL-denominated bonds and to use YTL as an instrument in debt management.
A similar trend is observed in domestic financial investment preferences.
While in 2002 the share of YTL in the total financial investment portfolio was 53 percent, this ratio rose to 71 percent as of May 2007.
We need to fight inflation on a sustained basis to ensure rapid growth.
and how important it is for us to increase social welfare.
We cannot be satisfied with bringing inflation to single digit levels.
Our goal in the new period is to achieve price stability and make it permanent.
We will continue this struggle until price increases across the economy are permanently reduced to levels that are negligible when making economic decisions.
In doing so, we will support the Central Bank, whose operational independence we will preserve, with our fiscal policy.
We will also work to bring inflation down to low single-digit levels through both macro structural reforms and micro reforms to increase competition in the goods and especially services sectors.
To this end, we will continue to develop the 'inflation targeting' regime.
Our determination to maintain fiscal discipline will continue to be the key to our success in the fight against inflation.
We will continue with the free exchange rate regime, which is an indispensable prerequisite for this policy framework, in the new period.
Capital flows will be free and the sustainable nature of long-term financing will be further strengthened through the consolidation of stability.
Our successful reform program in the financial sector will continue to help improve the effectiveness of monetary policy in the fight against inflation.
Our structural reform program will increase efficiency in the economy, especially in the public sector,
to increase flexibility and competitiveness,
will thus continue to make a significant contribution to the fight against inflation in terms of supply and costs.
New structural reforms and adjustments to be implemented simultaneously with fiscal and monetary discipline will help expand and maximize the utilization of productive capacity, which will help to bring enflasyonun down even further.
Financial Services
During the economic crises, 22 private banks were taken over by the state or liquidated.
These banks imposed an additional burden of 17.3 billion dollars on the Treasury.
In addition, a total cost of USD 21.9 billion was incurred to cover the duty losses of failed state-owned banks and to provide capital support.
The AK Party government is taking all necessary measures and implementing them with determination to prevent our country from ever facing such a cost again.
The operational restructuring of state-owned banks was completed and the
practice of incurring duty losses without appropriations was ended.
While both public banks, Ziraat and Halkbank, provide important credit opportunities to our farmers and tradesmen on favorable terms in line with their real functions
On the other hand, they became profitable and started to make significant contributions to our Treasury.
With the program we put into practice, which aims to restructure the banking sector, we have made significant progress in eliminating the fragility of the sector.
The banking system has become much more protected against exchange rate risk.
The foreign currency open position has decreased incomparably compared to the past
and has reached a value well below the legal regulations and is no
longer a risk factor.
The capital adequacy and liquidity ratios of our banks are also strong.
The capital adequacy ratio of our banks, which is currently above 20 percent, is the strongest among OECD countries.
Our banking system has regained its financial intermediation function.
While banks extended 23 percent of their total assets as loans in 2002, this ratio has increased to 44 percent today.
On the other hand, despite the increased loan volume, banks' ability to manage loans has increased.
The impact of this is evident from the decline in the "non-performing loans ratio".
While banks' non-performing loans were 6.6 percent of their total assets in 2002, this ratio dropped to 0.4 percent by the end of 2006.
The Banking Law, which was prepared in line with EU legislation, entered into force in 2005.
The debit card and credit card market, which started to develop in Turkey in the mid-1980s, was legally regulated with the Law on Debit Cards and Credit Cards during the AK Party government period after more than 20 years.
One of the important reforms that enabled the banking sector to operate in a more efficient and competitive structure was the limitation of the guarantee given to deposits to YTL 50,000 as of July 2004.
During the period of our government, the corruption of the Zoning Bank, which could not be dealt with for years, was uncovered
and the burden that the bank brought to the public was started to be collected from its shareholders.
A total of 12 billion dollars was collected from the owners of the Zoning Bank and the failed banks that were transferred in the previous periods and returned to the state.
This result, which was achieved thanks to our courageous and decisive attitude, has also relieved the public conscience to some extent.
As a result of the 2001 crisis, thousands of companies' debts to banks were restructured within the framework of the Istanbul Approach and the Anatolian Approach, which were introduced to help the real sector companies, which had difficulties in payment due to the crisis, to continue their activities and to resolve the problematic loans of the banking sector.
With the recent regulations in our capital markets, we have made significant progress towards harmonization with the EU acquis.
We also strengthened oversight and supervision in our capital markets.
We have prepared the legal infrastructure for the new mortgage system.
With the new insurance law, we brought the insurance sector into a legislative framework at EU standards.
We introduced the private pension system, which is important as a complement to the social security system and for the formation of long-term funds.
Recognizing the importance of a healthy banking system for the real sector and economic growth, our Party is committed to improving the competitive environment in the sector in the upcoming period,
On the other hand, the CBRT will continue to take all necessary measures in a timely and decisive manner to enable the real sector to benefit more from the banking system.
In this framework, we will provide all necessary support, especially to SMEs, to transition to the registered system and to implement good governance principles.
We will gradually transition to Basel II standards.
We will gradually reduce tax burdens on intermediation costs (BITT, KKDF).
We will complete the privatization of state-owned banks, especially Halk Bank.
We will implement the mortgaged housing system for which we have passed a law.
This would provide liquidity to banks, leading to a slight fall in all interest rates.
Moreover, for the first time, loans with relatively low real interest rates indexed to consumer prices will be made available.
Industry
The main objective of our industrial policy is to increase our competitiveness through efficiency.
and technological innovation,
To ensure sustainable development within an outward-oriented structure led by the private sector.
We will achieve this goal under market conditions and in compliance with international agreements to which we are a party.
The industrial sector has a decisive role in maintaining and improving our global competitiveness and increasing our national welfare.
Our industry has made significant progress in recent years in participating in global production chains.
Indeed, the second chapter opened in the EU negotiations was the Enterprise and Industrial Policy Chapter.
During the AK Party period, an Industrial Strategy Document was prepared to increase the competitiveness and productivity of our industry.
In addition, an SME Strategy and Action Plan for SMEs, the dynamic power of the industry, was prepared
and put into practice.
Both strategy documents have been prepared taking into account the long-term development needs of our industry within the EU perspective.
Thus, policy-making in these critical areas should be based on a sound perspective rather than on day-to-day decisions.
and predictability has been achieved.
We have rapidly expanded our industry under AK Party rule.
We achieved uninterrupted annual growth averaging 7.8 percent.
Capacity utilization rates, which had fallen as a result of the crises, increased dramatically and exceeded 80 percent.
While production increased by utilizing existing capacity more, on the other hand,
production capacity increased with new investments.
While in 2002 the private sector's fixed capital investments amounted to YTL 30 billion, this amount exceeded YTL 96 billion in 2006.
The commercial loan volume of banks increased from YTL 21.7 billion in 2002 to YTL 91.4 billion in 2006.
We broke records in exports of industrial products.
While a total of 65 Organized Industrial Zones were built in 37 years before the AK Party came to power, we completed 29 Organized Industrial Zones only in the 2003-2006 period.
In the same period, we put 48 Small Industrial Sites into service.
In order to increase the innovation and competitiveness of our industry, 23 Technoparks were established in cooperation with universities
and tax exemption was provided.
In the coming period, we will continue to move forward in the industry.
We will revise our industrial strategy to ensure that our industrial sector adapts to the conditions of the day, further increases its competitiveness and rapidly transitions to high value-added products in production.
We will develop the Industry Information System, which will form the infrastructure for strategic decisions in industry.
Our industrial sector needs to mobilize local resources as much as possible,
production in accordance with environmental norms,
consumer safety and choice,
using a highly skilled workforce,
able to produce technology by establishing strategic partnerships,
We will create a structure that takes its place in international markets by creating original designs and brands.
To complement our general industrial strategy, we will prepare sectoral strategies in areas where we have competitive advantages, such as automotive, white goods, machinery and electronics.
We will make fundamental changes in incentive policies and emphasize incentives at the regional level.
We will encourage research and development efforts
and ensure specialization in Technoparks.
Our industries producing intermediate goods and investment goods should cooperate strategically in order to benefit from economies of scale and synergy effects.
and we will encourage clustering activities.
We will support emerging sectors that will play an important role in the future through venture capital.
The development of our industry with the steps we will take in other areas such as improving the investment environment, vocational training and infrastructure investments
and a high employment
and we will continue our efforts for export performance.
Foreign Trade
The economic stability we have achieved as a result of the policies we have implemented reduces uncertainties and facilitates long-term investment decisions,
reduction in public deficits and the consequent fall in real interest rates have increased the amount of funds available to our entrepreneurs.
Thus, our private sector investments and production increased rapidly
, leading to an increase in exports and imports.
While our exports were 36 billion dollars in 2002, by the end of May 2007, the 12-month export figure had reached 94 billion dollars.
In the last four years, our imports have increased from 52 billion dollars to 138 billion dollars.
The price of crude oil rose steadily from $23 at the beginning of 2003 to over $70 in 2006.
With the effect of this significant increase in energy prices, the current account deficit widened to USD 32 billion in 2006 and its ratio to GDP rose to 7.8 percent.
If energy prices had remained at 2002 levels, the current account deficit would have been 3.8 percent of GDP in 2006.
During the AK Party rule, our exports have not only increased rapidly,
but it has also undergone a structural transformation,
the commodity composition of our exports has changed
and textile-dominated exports to an export structure in which sectors requiring higher technology, such as motor vehicles, white goods and electronics, have gained weight.
The increase in imports was mainly driven by the rise in imports of raw materials and investment goods due to the increase in production, as well as rising energy and raw material prices.
Our imports of investment goods increased 2.6 times from USD 8.4 billion in 2002 to USD 22.2 billion at the end of 2006.
During the period of our government, many international agreements were concluded in order to increase Turkey's foreign trade volume and to ensure more capital inflow to Turkey.
During this period, "Treaty on Mutual Encouragement and Protection of Investments" was signed with 13 countries, "Treaty on Avoidance of Double Taxation" with 8 countries and "Free Trade Agreement" with 6 countries.
I) International trade will continue to be one of the priority areas of our Party, taking into account its direct and indirect effects in terms of serving the economic development and increasing the social welfare of our country.
Active opening up policy will be emphasized.
Entrepreneurship, innovation and competitiveness in exports in our country's foreign trade;
In imports, we aim to develop on the basis of a structure that adheres to international rules and enables our domestic producers to increase their competitiveness.
In order to reduce input and financing costs to the levels of competitor countries, we consider it important to develop alternative policies to minimize tax burdens that cause input costs to rise.
In order to minimize exchange rate risk with the help of financial instruments, we will rapidly develop derivatives markets that will enable our exporters to manage exchange rate risk.
Our export vision, which is based on sustaining export growth and increasing our competitiveness, includes
transforming export-oriented production into a capital and knowledge-intensive structure based on high technology, R&D and innovation-driven productivity, and
developing marketing processes with a target market focus in line with global trends.
For our country, which has made significant progress in its development and opening up to the world, we believe in the need for competitive advantage based on R&D activities that will ensure the adoption of new products with high added value, innovation and the latest technologies, and a workforce with advanced education and skills.
For this purpose, to encourage the branding of our companies in order to create added value that will provide the necessary economic and social benefits,
thus enabling them to produce in a way that meets global demand
and to encourage them to improve their country and product image by supporting this with effective promotion and marketing activities.
Considering that protectionism in the world trade of agricultural products will decrease and competition will become more prominent;
Increasing productivity through effective utilization of agricultural product resources,
compliance with health and safety criteria in production and the establishment of an effective inspection system,
We aim to establish standards in all processes from production to the final export point.
Achieving total quality by establishing a system that will ensure product traceability in the process from production to the final consumption point
and enhancing credibility in export markets.
Considering the tendency of globalization to develop through regional integrations, we consider it a necessity for our country to rapidly complete the preferential trade regime arrangements with various countries within the framework of both bilateral and regional formations in order for our exporters to enter new markets.
In this context, we believe that in a world conjuncture where new markets potentially come to the forefront, it is important to ensure market expansions through systematic policies.
We will enact new legislative arrangements and support mechanisms to ensure that our country utilizes the advantages of its geopolitical position to become a logistics hub in its region.
In this way, on the one hand, our country will be a center where regional trade traffic is directed,
on the one hand, and foreign capital investments and new technology transfer on the other.
In this context, we attach great importance to the establishment of railway networks that will connect Organized Industrial Zones, which are industrial production centers, to ports.
In the period ahead, we will continue the strategy of increasing trade and investment relations with neighboring and neighboring countries, as well as with African, Asia Pacific, US and South American countries.
We will rapidly put "Trade Teams" (Tic-Taks) into service for high trade and investment activities.
We will continue our efforts to establish a free trade area with the Mediterranean, Black Sea and Caspian Sea countries within the scope of the "Three Seas Project".
In 2006, our overseas contracting and consultancy activities, which we started with 1.4 billion dollars in 2002, reached the level of 15 billion dollars, and the total amount of commitments we received reached 85 billion dollars.
We will continue to increase our efforts in this direction.
We will expand Eximbank's credit and insurance volume and
continue to support R&D in exports.
We aim to increase Turkey's export volume to over 200 billion dollars in 2013 and 500 billion dollars in 2023.
Tourism
The tourism sector, which brings foreign currency to our country and provides jobs and employment opportunities for many of our people, has grown rapidly during the AK Party rule
and has become one of our most important areas of superiority that can compete with the world.
According to 2005 data, our country ranks ninth among the countries attracting the highest number of tourists worldwide and
eighth among the countries earning the highest income from tourism.
Our active promotion policies have had a significant impact on our increasing tourism revenues.
While in 2002, advertising campaigns were implemented in 49 countries, we increased this number to 76 in 2006.
We participated in many tourism and travel fairs.
We also organized promotional campaigns for domestic tourism for the first time in 2006.
We continue at full speed with advertising campaigns carried out in cooperation with the public-private sector, which we believe adds great momentum to our activities.
As a result of our efforts to make Turkey a global brand, the number of tourists visiting our country and our revenues have increased significantly.
In 2006, the number of tourists visiting our country increased to 19 million, while our tourism revenues reached approximately 17 billion dollars.
Between 2002 and 2006, a total of 212 tourism centers and 5 Tourism Cities were declared.
In the same period, 102 tourism allocations were made with an investment cost of YTL 1.8 billion,
reaching a bed capacity of 44-670 beds
and creating 22,330 jobs.
Within the framework of the Master Plans prepared, 23 Thermal Tourism and 25 Winter Tourism Centers have been announced.
Efforts are underway to declare 8 potential regions as tourism centers.
During the AK Party period, we have worked to address the tourism sector, which we attach great importance to, from a long-term perspective.
We approved and put into effect the 2023 Tourism Strategy Document, which is a road map that illuminates the way forward for the entire sector.
As a result of this strategy, which diversifies tourism and enables the introduction of new models, our target for 2023 is 65 million tourists and annual revenues of USD 85 billion.
During the AK Party period, the historical and cultural potential of our country was utilized in the best possible way and offered to the service of tourism.
New steps will be taken in the coming period and we will quickly reach the position we deserve in the tourism sector.
As of the beginning of 2008, we will reduce the VAT rate applied in the tourism sector from 18 percent to 8 percent.
In the coming period, we aim to take our country to a much higher level in the international arena in this dynamic sector.
To this end, we will act in strong communication and cooperation with sector representatives within the scope of the strategies and master plans we have announced.
We will make a legal arrangement that will bring all actors in the tourism sector under the same umbrella.
Thus, we will be able to develop and implement policies in a more effective organizational structure in this important sector.
We will prioritize the development of promotional activities to improve domestic tourism and ensure that our citizens benefit from the positive effects of tourism.
In addition to mass tourism, the development of other types of tourism will be among our priority targets.
We will participate in tourism specialized fairs at a higher rate than in previous years and
develop differentiated advertising campaigns according to the structure of the countries.
In the light of current developments, we will expand the use of new technologies in promotion and marketing.
STRENGTHENING THE SOCIAL STRUCTURE
The Justice and Development Party has a political approach that focuses on human beings and human values.
To respond to people's demands for justice and development in our policies,
It is our basic principle to carry the preferences of the nation to politics.
It is also a requirement of our understanding of being at the service of our citizens in every aspect to realize the principle of "Social State", which is expressed in our Constitution and is one of the basic characteristics of our state, in the most comprehensive and effective way.
Ensuring justice in every field,
being fair
and we believe that spreading a sense of justice in the country will strengthen our social structure.
To observe social justice in the sharing of our country's opportunities and social welfare,
Realizing social justice is the most fundamental concern and the most advanced goal of our party and our understanding of power.
With this belief and determination, social policies have been given special importance and weight during the period of our government.
With the understanding of "Service to the People is Service to the Right", which is at the core of our social values, we provide social services to all our citizens more
and we tried to deliver it in a fairer way.
We have realized very important implementations to eliminate inequalities between regions in basic service areas such as education, health and social support.
Since the 1990s, we have mobilized and worked in this spirit to heal the deep wounds of inefficient coalition governments and the resulting crises,
In this period of our government, while strengthening our almost collapsed economic structure,
On the one hand, we have made every effort to allocate more resources to social policies.
As a result: Resources and support for education have increased,
infrastructure, enrolment rates and quality of education have improved across the country.
All our citizens receive more and fairer health services.
Our social security system is improving, and
all our citizens are now covered under the umbrella of General Health Insurance.
Social assistance and social services reach a wider range of people in a more principled manner.
Our society's hope for the future and self-confidence have increased.
The Justice and Development Party is determined to put more emphasis on social policies in its new term of government.
In our new era, with fewer economic constraints, we will be able to allocate more resources to social expenditures that will raise the standard of living of our people.
Our new period will be a period in which we increase our policies to strengthen our social structure in every dimension.
The distribution of income, which has improved during our government, will become more balanced, the
umbrella of social security-social assistance-social services will cover all our citizens with a central organization, and
services such as education and health, which we believe are basic human rights, will gain a more contemporary identity.
The goal of all our policies is that services reach every citizen adequately,
where no one is neglected,
where no one has privilege
and a strong Turkey where a sense of justice is felt by all our citizens in every corner of our country.
For a strong Turkey: Strong individual, strong family, strong society.
Education
AK Party sees education as a lifelong activity that raises the quality of life of our people and contributes to the welfare, stability and competitiveness of our country.
It therefore attaches strategic importance to education and training, starting with pre-school.
We believe that the field of education, which embodies the fundamental values of our Republic, is a center of opportunity and momentum for our country to reach the level of contemporary civilization pointed out by Atatürk.
From the day it took office, the AK Party government has persistently addressed what it sees as the most fundamental problems of education: infrastructure, access and quality.
In this framework, the budget of the Ministry of National Education was increased by 186 percent during our government period in order to raise the quality of human resources and bring our human capital up to modern standards.
In the coming period, the largest share of public expenditures will be allocated to education.
Pre-School Education
Our Party considers 7 years old to be too late to start education.
That is why we increased the enrollment rate in pre-school education from 11% when we came to power to 25% with great effort.
Currently, 60% of the detached kindergartens in our country were built and put into service between 2003 and 2007.
By 2013, we are determined to increase the schooling rate in preschool education to at least 50%.
Our target for 2023 is to increase preschool education to 80%.
Primary and Secondary Education
Recognizing education as a fundamental right for all citizens, the AK Party has taken important steps towards making this right accessible to all.
To this end, 110,000 new classrooms were built by mobilizing all means and resources
and thousands of schools were opened.
550,000 computers were distributed to schools,
special information and technology classrooms were set up and
ADSL (accelerated) internet connections were established.
Some qualified secondary education institutions were no longer a privilege for certain provinces and regions
and were distributed evenly across the country.
In this context, 385 Anatolian High Schools, 65 Anatolian Teacher High Schools, 20 Science High Schools, 13 Social Sciences High Schools, 12 Sports High Schools and 6 Fine Arts High Schools were established in various provinces and districts.
Social Sciences and Sports High Schools were the first initiatives introduced to our education system during our government.
In addition, 750 Vocational High Schools and 2690 new departments were opened to train qualified intermediate staff for the commercial, industrial and service sectors.
With the "Haydi Kızlar Okula" (Let's Go to School for Girls) campaign for girls who could not or were not sent to school, the AK Party government enrolled approximately 250,000 girls in school.
Regular aid is provided to meet the educational needs of approximately 1.6 million children who cannot go to school due to economic and social deprivation, on condition that they attend school,
With a special project implemented during our government period in order to increase the schooling rate in primary and secondary education, the lowest income 6% of our population is paid a certain amount every month for each child, provided that they send their children to school.
This payment is made to the mothers of the children
and is higher for girls:
in primary education, YTL 18 and YTL 22 per month for boys and girls respectively; in secondary education, YTL 28 and YTL 39 per month for boys and girls respectively.
With this project, school enrollment rates have been increased, especially in regions with low socio-economic development levels.
The rate of girls in particular attending secondary education has increased.
In addition, the monthly scholarship amount for secondary education was increased from YTL 13 to YTL 55.
Determined to solve the problems of access to education, the AK Party government has opened 109 new Regional Primary Boarding Schools (YIBO), especially for the benefit of children living in rural areas.
Our children in rural areas were largely unable to continue to secondary education after completing primary education.
To prevent this, 345 new secondary education dormitories have been built and put into operation, especially for low-income young people whose families live in rural areas.
The AK Party sees primary and secondary education in particular as a time for students to acquire basic skills, to analyze and synthesize, to think, to question, and to develop a strong character, rather than a period of information overload.
This period is also regarded as a stage of identity formation in which the student will gain social and cultural values and a sense of social belonging in harmony with himself and his environment.
The AK Party changed the curricula in primary and secondary education based on this approach
and started to implement it in all our schools.
With the implementation of the new curriculum in all grades, the Secondary Education Entrance Examination (OKS), which has become a major problem for our children, will be abolished in 2008, and
instead a new secondary education selection and placement system, which is spread over 3 years, in parallel with the new curriculum and which connects students to their schools, will be fully implemented.
For the first time in the history of the Republic, our government started to provide free textbooks to every child in primary and secondary education.
The "School Assemblies and Democracy Education" project covering all schools was initiated in order to give our children the right to vote and be elected, tolerance, and the culture of living in peace and tranquility by meeting on common grounds despite their differences.
While strengthening the infrastructure, the AK Party
has pursued policies to increase the professional satisfaction of our teachers, the pillars of our education system.
To this end, teaching was made a career profession
and approximately 100,000 teachers were given the titles of specialist and head teacher.
Practices such as nepotism and favoritism in teacher appointments, promotions and transfers, which had been the subject of complaints for years, were put an end to and
an objective and transparent method was put into practice to ensure justice and equality.
Under the AK Party government, all teacher appointments, transfers and promotions have been made electronically.
In our new term, we will continue the innovations we have initiated to raise the quality of our human resources to standards that can compete with the world
and we will continue to invest in our human capital.
In this framework, to reduce to zero the access problems such as classrooms, infrastructure, teachers and equipment, which we have already solved to a great extent,
Improving the quality of education is our top priority.
To this end, an effective national education management system will be established.
The Ministry of National Education will be transformed into an effective structure that determines policies at the general level and fulfills coordination and supervision functions.
In the coming period, we will achieve the 2013 target of 100% enrollment in primary education and 90% enrollment in secondary education, including vocational and technical education.
In 2023, our goal is to gradually increase compulsory education to 12 years and reach 100% enrollment in secondary education.
In primary and secondary education, we will ensure that classes have a maximum of 30 students, provided that single education is introduced.
We will open at least one dormitory for girls and one dormitory for boys in each district, taking into account the population of the district.
In this way, we will continue our efforts to provide equal opportunities in education for young people living on low and fixed incomes and in rural areas.
The AK Party government will continue to build sports halls and multi-purpose halls in our schools by mobilizing many resources in the coming period.
In order to prevent waste of resources and people, we will implement a fundamental secondary education reform based on program diversity rather than school diversity.
By increasing the duration of the secondary education system to 4 years and enriching it with a modular structure that allows students to transfer horizontally, we will enrich it with a structure that allows our children to take courses from different fields and prepare an environment for their versatile upbringing.
Under AK Party rule, Guidance and Counseling Research Centers were transformed from reactive to proactive institutions
and their number was increased by 50 percent.
The guidance and guidance system will be made much more effective in order to identify students' talents and individual differences at an early stage.
In primary education, after the first 4 to 6 years, our children will be allowed to focus on different fields according to their interests and abilities.
We attach importance to the use of Turkish as the language of education instead of foreign language education.
However, in today's world of increasingly intensified international relations, we have initiated more effective programs to help our children learn at least one foreign language, especially English, very well.
and make it widespread.
Our current exam-oriented education system causes significant psychological and financial problems for young people and their families.
Our examination system, on the one hand, wastes huge resources and,
on the other hand, produces generations that are rote memorizers and lack analytical skills.
In the new period, the AK Party will ensure that the transformation of the examination system, the first step of which we took with the change we made in OKS, is also adapted to OSS.
We will create an effective guidance and guidance system that will emphasize vocational education, and a measurement and evaluation system that will increase the effectiveness and success of the curriculum taught at school, instead of a single exam at the end of secondary education.
We will continue our efforts to use information and communication technologies widely in education, which we started this semester, with the same speed and determination in the coming semester, and we
will leave no school without an internet connection and no student who is not IT literate.
Vocational Training
Vocational and technical education is a very important and prioritized area of Turkish national education.
When our party came to power, 28% of our students attending secondary education were enrolled in vocational schools, but as a result of our efforts and the measures we took, this rate was increased to 35%.
In 2013, this rate will be increased to 50%.
Our 2023 target is to increase vocational and technical education to 60%.
With the Development of Vocational Education Project (MEGEP) and the Modernization of Vocational and Technical Education Project (MTEM), we have made significant progress in this field.
In this context, 42 core occupational fields and 194 occupations under them have been identified to date.
Standards have been established for 65 occupations
and training sets and framework programs have been prepared and implemented in accordance with these standards.
Secondary education was increased to 4 years under the AK Party government.
For the purpose of flexibility, common courses for all secondary schools are offered in the first year, with the
possibility of transfer between schools and professions in the second year.
Within our vocational high schools, students are given the opportunity to switch to sub-fields from the 3rd grade.
In this way, a secondary education area suitable for horizontal and vertical transitions has been created.
Since the first grades of all secondary education institutions are common, it has been made easier for students to transfer to vocational schools.
Our government has restructured vocational education in order to train the manpower needed by the market and the sectors.
In doing so, experiences from around the world have been utilized
and civil society organizations representing the sectors, workers' and employers' unions have been included in the process as social partners.
Cooperation protocols were signed with chambers of commerce and industry, chambers of commerce, chambers of industry and many municipalities during this period, enabling thousands of people to acquire a profession.
These efforts will continue to increase in the coming period.
The formation of the National Vocational Qualifications Authority was completed both legally and institutionally as a result of a long work under the AK Party government.
Thus, the infrastructure at international standards has been prepared for the development of the professions needed by the business world in accordance with the determined standards.
Recognizing that information technology has become a very important element of vocational education, our government has intensively established information technology departments in vocational schools
and opened stand-alone Information Technology High Schools in some provinces.
Today, when many professions have changed their nature, non-formal education and lifelong education have gained great importance and our government has undertaken many projects in this field.
More than one million people were made literate when they were illiterate,
vocational courses to enable them to have a profession.
The AK Party government, which cooperates with dozens of countries in the field of vocational education, has ensured that vocational education is made practical through protocols signed with more than 120 domestic and foreign companies operating in Turkey.
In the coming period, the international dimension in vocational education will be taken much further both within the framework of the Leonardo Program, the European Union's vocational education program, and with other ongoing and preparatory projects.
The AK Party is determined to organize a vocational education system that takes into account rapid technological change, international integration, increasing competition and the future needs of the knowledge economy.
What is necessary for our vocational education system is the establishment of a vocational qualification system based on occupational standards, examination and certification,
institutionalization of mechanisms to strengthen the cooperation between education and the business world in order to train the qualified manpower needed by the business world, and
providing a modular and flexible structure to vocational education.
The process and efforts initiated to realize all these objectives will continue until the desired results are achieved.
Maximum use of information technology in the coming period, especially in vocational education
and especially the software field will become an employment-intensive field, as in India and some similar countries.
As AK Party, we will make efforts to cooperate with the business world to increase the functionality of the vocational education system.
A system in which our vocational training students are intertwined with the business world and can easily find a job when they graduate.
and we are committed to making it widespread.
Strengthening the integration of Vocational Schools with vocational and technical secondary education institutions
and we will work to make vocational colleges more functional.
Higher Education
Universities are institutions that produce knowledge with an innovative and critical perspective, disseminate this knowledge and train qualified manpower.
Universities work to respond to the needs of society,
protect and preserve our values, and
directly affect the future of society with the scientific knowledge, technology and qualified manpower they produce.
The Justice and Development Party believes that universities are of strategic importance in areas such as health, education, environment, energy, urban development, international relations, economy, defense and national security.
Our higher education system is unable to contribute to Turkey's global competitiveness at the expected level due to the structural problems it faces.
The university system in our country needs a series of innovations in order to meet social expectations in areas such as the training of qualified manpower required by the knowledge economy, strengthening the social structure, and promoting critical thinking and democratic values.
The AK Party views the higher education system from an international perspective
and considers it imperative that our universities meet international standards.
This calls for a fundamental change in the governance and teaching policies of our universities that are open to the outside world.
The solution to the problem of quality and resources in our universities can only be participatory,
accountable, autonomous, responsible and transparent governance.
Universities should have structures that are scientifically free, administratively autonomous and financially capable of generating financial resources:
during the period of our government: In order to meet our universities' need for qualified people and specialists, it was decided to send 1000 students abroad every year for their master's and doctorate studies. verilmiş and the first group was sent in 2006.
Through TÜBİTAK, more than 5000 thousand master's and doctoral scholarships have been awarded, making a significant contribution to the training of future scientists.
Under the Erasmus program, thousands of faculty members, researchers and students have benefited from the opportunity to increase their knowledge and skills in European universities within the framework of exchange programs.
11 thousand university students benefited from this program.
In order to increase the research and human training capacity and international competitiveness of our universities, Turkey participated in the 6th and 7th Framework Programs, which are included in the EU Research Report.
The allocation for university research funds increased from YTL 70 million in 2002 to YTL 370 million in 2007.
Within the framework of the cooperation of our universities with the industry, the number of Technoparks with tax exemption privileges was increased from 3 to 23 during our government period
and the innovation and competitiveness of our industry was increased.
In order to meet the demand for higher education in Turkey, a total of 39 new universities were opened, 7 of which are foundation universities and 32 of which are public universities.
The budget of our higher education institutions increased by 164 percent.
In order to contribute to the educational expenses of our students, the monthly loan and scholarship amount for higher education was increased from YTL 45 to YTL 150
and loans or scholarships were given to every student who applied.
YURT'KUR budget was increased by 247 percent
and 27 thousand beds were added to our higher education dormitories.
The quality of student dormitories has been improved.
The Bologna Process, which is considered a strategic plan and the beginning of the restructuring of European universities.
Thus, an important step has been taken towards the harmonization of the Turkish university system with the EU in terms of organization, management structure and curricula.
Recognizing that "the field of higher education in Turkey has many problems that have accumulated and are accumulating" and that "intervention to these problems cannot be delayed", the AK Party will prioritize the solution of the problems faced by our universities in the new period with the participation of relevant stakeholders.
Our universities will be supported to stand out with their differentiation in governance and teaching.
Our universities, which have different human, physical and financial resources, should be able to participate in global competition instead of a uniform and single-centered management approach,
will be transformed into dynamic institutions that are open to the world and meet the expectations of society.
Increasing the competitiveness of our universities within the framework of the European Union negotiation process and the Bologna Declaration
and quality assessment will be prioritized.
The volume and diversity of domestic and international faculty member and scientist training and exchange programs will be increased.
In order to strengthen the human resources of our universities, the scholarship programs of the Ministry of National Education and TUBITAK and the exchange programs of faculty members, researchers and students within the framework of the Erasmus program will continue to be increased.
Within the framework of EU research and development policies, participation in the 7th framework programs will be increased
and more researchers will benefit from these funds every year.
In order to improve the relations of our universities with the outside world and to close the academic staff deficit, local and foreign academicians who have been educated abroad will be encouraged to come to Turkey.
Universities will be encouraged to work more closely with the production and service sectors, and
a Technopark will be established in each university in order to train qualified manpower within the framework of industry-university cooperation.
The financial means of universities will be expanded
and the personal rights and working conditions of scientists in Turkey will be improved.
An optional guest lecturer system that allows flexible exchange of faculty members and researchers across the country will be supported.
In this way, knowledge and experience will be shared.
Starting from our immediate neighborhood, efforts to open campuses of Turkish universities in the Middle East, Turkic world and European Union countries will be supported.
Likewise, in order to contribute to the knowledge and human capital of our country and the competitiveness of our universities, regulations enabling world-renowned universities to open campuses in Turkey will be supported.
Increasing the number of foreign students studying in our country, which is the center of attraction of our region, will be encouraged to provide economic input, contribute to the promotion of Turkey and intercultural communication.
Student scholarship amounts will continue to be increased.
Health
The Justice and Development Party recognizes health care as a fundamental human right.
No human being can be denied this right.
The duty of the social state is to take all necessary measures for the full realization of this right.
The AK Party Government has taken very important steps in this direction and
considers the provision of health services in the best way as its primary duty.
It has achieved unimaginable success in providing better quality, fairer and more accessible services for healthy generations.
The Justice and Development Party government has courageously and decisively removed many obstacles that made it difficult for our citizens to access health services,
launched a comprehensive "Health Transformation Program" to improve the distorted and inequitable system in health
and successfully executed it.
Within this framework: We boldly and decisively took steps to make life easier for our citizens.
With this understanding, we transferred the hospitals of other public institutions, especially SSK hospitals, to the Ministry of Health.
We deliver health services, which we see as a fundamental right, to our citizens without discrimination and different practices.
Every citizen can go to any hospital they want, including university hospitals and private hospitals.
The rights of citizens with green cards were expanded for low-income groups.
With the new regulation, the health services and medication costs of Green Card holders within the scope of "outpatient treatment" are also covered by the state.
Our citizens can now claim their rights in hospitals.
She can be examined by the doctor of her choice in many hospitals.
Our hospitals are no longer equipment poor.
Most of our specialist doctors no longer run private practices.
We made it possible for SSK patients to buy their medicines from contracted free pharmacies.
Thus, we ended the queuing ordeal of millions of employees and pensioners and
ensured that they receive the quality of service they deserve.
We achieved significant increases in the business volume of 22,800 pharmacies in Turkey.
Paving the way for SSK patients to buy medicines from free pharmacies,
green card patients started to receive medicines from free pharmacies
As a result of improved access to pharmaceutical products and easier access to pharmaceutical services, pharmaceutical payments made by reimbursement agencies to pharmacies increased from YTL 5.2 billion in 2002 to YTL 10 billion in 2006.
By reducing the VAT rate on medicines and changing the drug pricing system, we have achieved a significant reduction in drug prices.
Thus, we have greatly eased the burden on both the public and citizens in terms of pharmaceutical costs.
We reduced the VAT rate on health services provided in health institutions and organizations from 18 percent to 8 percent.
We launched the family medicine practice, which is one of the basic elements of the modern understanding of health.
9 million citizens benefit from this practice, which is a big step forward and is currently being successfully implemented in 11 pilot provinces.
The ratio of health expenditures made by our citizens out of their own pockets to total health expenditures decreased from 30 percent to 20 percent.
Approximately YTL 2 billion of our citizens' annual health expenditures have started to be covered by the public.
Our inpatients' needs for medicines and medical supplies are now met by hospitals.
Our sick citizens do not have to go from pharmacy to pharmacy in the middle of the night to find prescription medicines and medical supplies.
We have reduced infant mortality rates, which we emphasize, from 29 per thousand to 22 per thousand,
We reduced maternal mortality from 70 per 100,000 to 28 per 100,000.
We have started to cover the expenses of families who will have their children circumcised by the state.
Our children are circumcised by doctors in health facilities in a healthier environment.
For diseases that require long-term medication such as blood pressure, diabetes, cholesterol, etc., by issuing a report and a prescription only once, our sick citizens can get their medicines in quarterly quantities for 2 years by going directly to the pharmacy without having to print a prescription each time.
All insured citizens are paid for urban and intercity ambulances.
We provide "112 Emergency Health" services not only in cities but also in villages.
We reach our citizens with mobile services in rural areas.
We serve our patients in need of dialysis by picking them up and dropping them off at their homes.
We have established Europe's largest medical rescue team for disasters with 2400 specially trained health personnel in 81 provinces.
Disabled citizens could go to private clinics with the same enthusiasm as public health institutions.
With the new practice, disabled citizens can go directly to private clinics.
We made it possible for all SSK, Bağ-Kur and Emekli Sandığı members who need a motorized invalid car to purchase a motorized invalid car.
By prioritizing regions lacking buildings, equipment and health personnel, we have largely eliminated imbalances in this regard.
We recruited nearly two thousand new health personnel in the public sector.
In a period when the recruitment of personnel to the public sector was extremely limited, we have largely solved the problem of health personnel, which our people have been complaining about for years, by employing a significant part of the German personnel for this purpose.
We improved the scale and quality of services in every corner of our country by bringing together adequate buildings and equipment with health personnel.
During our period in power, we focused on the rapid completion of health investments;
we opened a total of 903 health facilities, including 152 hospitals, 149 hospital annexes and 528 health centers.
Eighteen thousand new patient beds were created.
We doubled the intensive care bed capacity.
In the new projects, we are eliminating the outdated and inhumane ward system,
putting bathrooms and toilets in patient rooms, and
making rooms with 1 or 2 beds.
This number increased from 6,852 in 2002 to 14,252 in June 2007.
In the coming period, we will continue the "Health Transformation Program" with determination
, and by 2013, we will have achieved it to a large extent.
Our aim is to create the "Healthy Turkey" of tomorrow for the people of our country.
All of our people will benefit from health services at the same standard without discriminating between rich and poor,
that the premiums of the poor will be covered by our state,
The "Universal Health Insurance" system, under which all children under the age of 18 will be covered by health insurance, is one of the most important projects in the AK Party's Emergency Action Plan.
We are committed to implementing this system in 2008, which had been approved and enacted by the Turkish Grand National Assembly but had to be postponed due to the annulment of some of its articles by the Constitutional Court.
We will continue to create opportunities for individuals, the public and private sectors, civil society organizations and international organizations to contribute to the implementation of our "health for all" policies and strategies.
AK Party will prioritize preventive health services.
In this framework, we will strengthen and expand primary health care services, especially preventive health and maternal and child health services.
We will expand family medicine to the whole country.
This will usher in an era in which we will be able to choose our own doctors and change them at will,
everyone's health records will be regularly monitored,
a health system integrated with our hospitals and an appropriate referral chain will be developed.
By 2010, we will reduce infant mortality to less than twenty per thousand and maternal mortality to less than twenty per hundred thousand.
We will strengthen our programs to prevent nutritional deficiencies and disorders in infants and children.
We will increase our child vaccination rates above 95%.
Not just following the vaccination schedule of developed countries,
We will continue to bring the latest innovations and technologies in vaccination to our children.
Our goal in "112 Emergency Health" services is to reach more than 95% of calls within 10 minutes in cities and 30 minutes in rural areas,
we're going to increase the number of stations,
by continuing to renew our ambulances with the latest technologies;
We will add sea and air transportation vehicles to our overland vehicles.
We will further improve the teams and equipment (UMKE) we have created for disasters, and
maintain a structure of 3500 people ready for any time and any region.
We will ensure that people with special needs due to their health, social or economic conditions, especially the disabled, have easy access to appropriate services.
We will improve home care services.
For the health of our young people, we will develop appropriate strategies to protect them from violence and accidents, harmful behaviors such as drug, tobacco and alcohol consumption by engaging the community.
To take our success in preventing infectious diseases to a higher level; to eliminate measles from our country,
minimizing hepatitis B carriage;
mumps and whooping cough, one in eight thousand,
to reduce malaria to less than five per 100,000;
Reducing deaths and adverse outcomes from tuberculosis, childhood pneumonia, diarrhea are among our goals.
Preventing health deterioration and premature mortality due to non-communicable diseases will be important health programs of the coming period.
In this context, we will develop country programs for specific diseases, including cardiovascular diseases, cancers, diabetes, chronic respiratory diseases, strokes, kidney failure.
"Healthy Life" programs are of great importance in preventing the above problems and others.
We will decisively tackle the "seven causes" of tobacco and alcohol use, under-consumption of fruits and vegetables, insufficient physical activity (lack of movement), overweight, high blood pressure and high cholesterol.
We will make the National Health Information System effective and develop this system (e-health) in cooperation with the Ministry of Health, universities, Social Security Institution and private health institutions.
With the "Medula" project that we will implement in the field of health, transactions between hospitals and the Social Security Institution will be carried out online.
Thus, electronic invoicing and prescribing system will be introduced to prevent abuses and waste of resources.
We will introduce a modern practice implemented in developed countries, the "electronic identity card".
The electronic identity card will replace the identity wallet currently in use.
By expanding the practices initiated together with the Red Crescent, we will make the supply of blood and blood products no longer a burden on citizens.
In order to overcome our human resource deficit in the health sector, we will seek solutions to the problem by cooperating with all responsible parties, especially universities.
In 2023, we aim for a Turkey that has closed the human resource deficit in the health sector to a great extent.
We transformed the School of Public Health, whose structure we improved, into the "Turkish Institute of Health".
We will strengthen our research and development efforts, particularly in health systems management, by taking steps to transform health systems.
We will continue to develop a specialized structure for the management of medicines and medical supplies.
We will continue our efforts to provide quality and affordable health services within the framework of the rational use of medicines policy.
We will restructure the Ministry of Health, further strengthening its regulatory, planning and oversight role.
We will develop a system for the accreditation of health institutions.
In order to improve service quality, we will make hospital administrations administratively and financially autonomous.
Working Life
As in every field, the Justice and Development Party government has brought confidence and stability in labor life.
Both our claim for rapid development and our understanding of justice that emphasizes social solidarity are closely related to working life.
We aimed to establish a rational balance between all parties in labor life.
The rights of our employees
and to develop a working life in which the competitiveness of our enterprises is protected.
We consider the protection and promotion of social peace as a sine qua non condition for a healthy and long-term development process.
The AK Party government, which is based on respect for workers and labor, has made important arrangements in the laws on labor life in accordance with EU and ILO norms.
After 30 years of debates, we enacted the Labor Law and introduced flexible working forms,
ensured the job security of our workers on the other.
The new working conditions take into account the needs of our businesses and increase their competitiveness.
With this Law, we also limited working hours to 45 hours,
introduced the right to 24 hours of leave per week, and
made working on national holidays and holidays subject to the approval of the worker.
These rights, which also led to an increase in productivity, paved the way for our employees to contribute to production under more peaceful conditions.
By renewing the regulations on the employment of foreigners in our country, we eliminated the disorganization in this field
and gathered the authorities under a single roof, and
created a favorable environment for foreign direct investments that will create new job and employment opportunities for our people.
We established the Vocational Qualifications Authority with an understanding that will bring order and discipline to our working life.
Thus, it will be possible to standardize many professions and certify the people who will perform these professions.
Concrete developments in this area in the coming years will be reflected in the lives of our people in the form of better quality and reliable services.
On the other hand, the practice of a profession with clear standards will reinforce respect for the profession and trust in the people practicing it.
We introduced regulations that introduced the minimum subsistence deduction in the real taxation of wages.
The minimum wage level, which we have increased significantly compared to the past, will be moved to a more favorable point with these additional improvements.
We have effectively combated child labor.
In 2006, our country was selected as one of the 3 countries with the best fight against child labor at a special session of the ILO General Assembly.
We will continue this struggle, which is a requirement of our social responsibility approach, with determination.
We gave staff to more than 218 thousand temporary public workers.
Thus, we have put the issue of temporary employment in the public sector, which has been on the agenda for a long time, into a legal framework.
We have provided these workers with full job security and addressed their concerns.
We bring European Union standards to our country with our work on occupational health and safety.
These regulations, which will reduce the human tragedies caused by occupational diseases and accidents, will also minimize the loss of labor force in the economy and the resulting production reductions.
We reduced bureaucracy with E'state applications
and relieved both our employees and businesses.
In the coming period, we will continue to protect the rights of our employees and
We will continue our work on labor life to increase the competitiveness of our businesses.
We will take new steps in communication and cooperation with all segments in the pursuit of social peace, justice and prosperity.
We will continue to make arrangements in line with the ILO and EU acquis.
Based on our development process and the long-term interests of our employees, we will maintain labor and social peace.
Our main goal is to ensure that our employees transform their labor into added value efficiently in peace and security.
In this framework, we will renew occupational health and safety regulations in line with developments and extend them to public employees.
To simplify bureaucratic procedures in line with the needs of our employees and businesses, with the understanding of facilitating working life
and we will continue to expand e-government applications.
We will develop the Labor Law in a way that supports our employment policies, which will continue to be the most important agenda of the coming period.
We will expand new forms of employment based on models that combine flexibility and security.
We aim to increase flexibility while simultaneously solving the social security problems of those working in this context.
On the other hand, we will continue to effectively combat informality, which creates unfair competition and bottlenecks in the long-term development of our businesses,
boosting employment,
contribute to competitiveness
and we are committed to reducing burdens on employment, consistent with our goals to fight informality.
Institutionalizing the Vocational Qualifications Authority in an approach that strengthens the relations between working life and education
and we will realize our goal of making it work actively.
Using the Unemployment Insurance Fund to incentivize investments to improve employment
and mobilize our people to gain skills in line with the needs of the labor market.
On the other hand, we will ensure that our unemployed benefit from this Fund more easily, for longer and more.
We will continue to make adjustments to our union structure in line with the EU acquis and modern developments.
We will finalize our ongoing work on the participation of trade unions in collective bargaining agreements, taking into account ILO and EU norms.
As in every field, we take participation as a basis in working life.
In this understanding, we will strengthen existing social dialogue mechanisms at country and enterprise level
and promote a culture of dialogue.
Social Security
The main goal of the Justice and Development Party is for our people to live in peace without worrying about tomorrow.
To this end, it is essential that all our people are covered by a comprehensive and effective social security umbrella.
During the AK Party rule, we realized the dream of gathering three disorganized social insurance institutions under a single roof by making vital reforms in a fundamental area such as social security.
In this field, which concerns the whole society and the future of all of us, we have provided our citizens with the opportunity to receive services in a much faster, friendly manner and in accordance with common norms and standards.
On the backdrop of political stability and trust, we have painlessly made a transformation that many countries have desired but failed to achieve.
The Justice and Development Party not only created a single roof in the field of social security, but also
took very important steps in the areas of pensions, health, non-contributory payments and social assistance
, and enacted the Social Insurance and General Health Insurance Law.
When this reform, the implementation date of which has been postponed due to the annulment of some articles by the Constitutional Court, is completed, fundamental changes that have not been dared for many years will have been realized.
All these bold and decisive steps have been taken for the sake of the future of our country and to strengthen our social structure.
We can clearly see the reflections of our strong social policy that we have implemented during our government period in the increase in social expenditures:
In 2002, social expenditures (such as education, health, social protection) were 17 percent of national income, whereas in 2006, it was realized as 19 percent of our national income.
In other words, social expenditures, which were YTL 47 billion in 2002, more than doubled to YTL 108 billion in 2006.
In 2002, public expenditures on social protection, which were around YTL 22 billion, increased to YTL 55 billion in 2006 as a reflection of the social sensitivity of the Justice and Development Party.
The net minimum wage increased by 119 percent between 2002 and 2007.
While at the end of 2002 the net minimum wage was YTL 184, it was set at YTL 403 for the first half of 2007.
In 2003, social support payments of YTL 75-100 were made to SSK and Bağ-Kur pensioners.
While the average SSK pension was YTL 276 at the end of 2002, it increased by 95 percent to YTL 538 in January 2007.
The average pension of Bağ'Kur tradesmen increased by 117 percent from YTL 261 at the end of 2002 to YTL 566 in January 2007.
The average pension of Bağ'Kur farmers increased by 205 percent from YTL 110 at the end of 2002 to YTL 335 in January 2007.
The importance we attach to social policies will continue to be more pronounced in the period ahead.
We have full political will to make the principle of "Social State" expressed in our Constitution felt in all its dimensions in the daily lives of our citizens.
Realizing the ideal of "social justice", which is the dimension of the concept of "justice" in the name of our party, in terms of income distribution and decent living, will continue to be among our main goals.
In this context, we are determined to realize the social security reform, which has been on the agenda of our country for nearly 45 years, in all its aspects.
Thus, a pension regime that will ensure equal and fair service to all citizens will be established by preserving the age, premium payment and insurance periods (vested rights) of existing employees.
The pensions of current employees will be calculated based on the time they spent in the old system and the new system.
Thus, the transition to the new system for existing insured persons will take place gradually over time, and
norm unity will be achieved over a long period of time without victimizing existing insured persons.
There will be a fully norm-unified pension regime for new entrants.
For Bağ'Kur members, the income tier system will be abolished and the
principle of premium payment based on an amount chosen by the insured between the minimum and maximum earnings will be introduced.
The amount and duration of marriage, breastfeeding, funeral, sickness, maternity and temporary incapacity for work benefits will be increased to help the insured and their relatives overcome the financial difficulties they face.
In 2008, with the social security reform that will introduce universal health insurance, practices such as the "green card" will become a thing of the past.
The dream of a Turkey where everyone is insured will finally become a reality.
We are determined to integrate the unity we have achieved in social security with social assistance and services.
Our main goal is to build an infrastructure that encompasses all our citizens and provides the most accurate, fair, fast and effective public services to each of them.
With the Central Information System we will establish, all the information that our different institutions have will be brought together.
The services of our institutions for people with different status and characteristics such as the working population, the elderly, the disabled and the poor will be carried out in a more effective organization and coordination. The
Address Based Population Registration System, which includes the income status and livelihood conditions of our people, the inventory produced within the scope of social assistance and solidarity and the studies for determining the poverty profile will be combined.
The centralized information system to be created in this way will enable a collective view of our population, especially those under the social security umbrella.
With the evaluation of the data produced by the central information system, more effective policies can be developed
and services can be planned collectively.
Different tools will be deployed according to the needs and location of each citizen and services will be provided.
Thus, different institutions will be organized in a result-oriented approach towards the same goal.
Social Assistance and Solidarity
With its founding philosophy, party program and practices, the Justice and Development Party puts being "nobody for the orphans" at the forefront of its understanding of service to citizens.
To work with all our strength to ensure that there is not a single helpless and hopeless person left
and to offer our people the possibility of a dignified life are among the raison d'être of our Party.
The Justice and Development Party has demonstrated this concern and sincerity not with words but with its practices during its term in office.
In 2002, when we came to power, we set out to overcome the growing impoverishment caused by years of neglect and crises,
Our primary goal has been to heal the social wounds opened.
To strengthen our fraying social fabric,
to reach the help of our citizens who are almost in despair
and we have mobilized all the means of our country to restore self-confidence to our people.
The social dimension has been taken into account in all economic policies we have implemented during our period in power,
possible social repercussions were evaluated.
In all sectors and in the work of all ministries, the policy has been to provide more support, especially to the low-income and poor.
In particular, the budgets of institutions providing social assistance to our citizens have been significantly increased.
The Justice and Development Party government prioritizes the principle of our state being a "Social State" and the goal of realizing social justice in our society.
Within this framework, it recognizes all social assistance and support as the right of our citizens and the duty of the state.
The Justice and Development Party has been sensitive to the needs of the poor, the elderly, the disabled, children in need of protection, students and all socio-economically disadvantaged groups in general.
The main purpose of all these efforts has been the dignity, happiness and peace of our people.
While the amount of social assistance provided to our citizens by various ministries was YTL 1.4 billion in 2002, it increased rapidly during the Justice and Development Party government and reached YTL 5.7 billion in 2006.
A total of YTL 14.8 billion was spent on social assistance between 2003 and 2006.
Thus, the ratio of social assistance to national income increased from 0.45 percent to 1.05 percent.
During the period of our government, a significant amount of unrequited support was provided to the agricultural sector.
Support for tradesmen and artisans and SMEs was increased.
As an indirect support, especially for the low-income groups, electricity prices, which is a compulsory consumption item for every family, were not increased at all during our period in power.
Free textbooks were distributed free of charge, which facilitated the lives of parents and students and reduced the educational expenses of low-income citizens.
In the period 2003-2007, a total of 411 million 282 thousand books were distributed free of charge to students in primary and secondary schools.
The cost of this is 776 million YTL.
As an indirect support, especially for the low-income groups, electricity prices, which is a compulsory consumption item for every family, were not increased at all during our period in power.
The minimum wage has more than doubled during the AK Party rule.
Old age pensions were increased, while
disability pensions were doubled or tripled depending on the degree of disability.
In 2002, the expenditure on green cards was only 160 million YTL, while this expenditure reached 2.9 billion YTL in 2006, an 18-fold increase.
In the same period, expenditures for old-age, invalid and disabled pensions increased from YTL 312 million to YTL 1.3 billion.
During the Justice and Development Party rule, the Social Assistance and Solidarity Incentive Fund was used effectively to provide direct social assistance to citizens in need.
The General Directorate of Social Assistance and Solidarity was established during the period of our government in order to deliver social assistance to our citizens based on expertise, scientific criteria and in a more organized manner.
We have increased the resources of this Fund by 150 percent compared to 2002.
While Fund resources were transferred to the budget for other purposes in previous periods, not a single penny was misused during our period in power.
On the contrary, resources were transferred from the budget to the Fund.
Under the Justice and Development Party, randomness in the field of social assistance has been eliminated and
great care has been taken to make scientific determinations in the fight against poverty and to base the measures to be taken on these determinations.
Institutions in charge of social assistance were run efficiently and
significantly increased resources were used in line with objective criteria.
Social assistance expenditures from the Social Assistance and Solidarity Encouragement Fund alone amounted to YTL 4.7 billion between 2003 and 2006.
As stated in the Government's Emergency Action Plan, our social assistance strategy is to reach those in need without waiting for their requests by establishing objective criteria,
Emphasizing projects for production and employment,
Supporting skills and vocational training programs,
It was based on prioritizing education and health programs.
First of all, we have increased the monthly periodic transfers from the Fund's resources to the Social Assistance and Solidarity Foundations, which operate at the closest point to the citizen with a flexible and transparent approach and are located in every province and district.
While this transfer was YTL 9 million per month in 2003, it increased to YTL 25 million in 2006.
Aid policies have been organized in such a way as to shift the emphasis from unrequited aid that leaves citizens in the position of passive recipients and meets their daily needs to permanent project support that can generate sustainable income and make them productive.
The goal is to free our people from the "need for help" and turn them into individuals who live off the sweat of their own brow.
Within this framework, necessary guidance is provided to citizens who want to start a business individually or in groups and ensure their own development.
and support is provided,
interest-free loans with a two-year grace period.
In social assistance activities, those who are able to work among the target group are directed to this support.
income and employment generating projects have been designed and implemented to ensure that citizens in need can earn their own income.
Among the projects we have launched for this purpose is the Rural Social Support Project.
Through this project, YTL 312 million was allocated to 498 cooperatives for dairy cattle breeding, sheep breeding and greenhouse cultivation projects through cooperatives whose members are the lowest income families in our villages, and 32,000 families benefited.
Another important project we initiated during the AK Party rule was to directly contribute to the healthy and educated upbringing of the children of low-income families:
Families in the lowest-income 6 percent of our population are provided with monthly educational assistance to their mothers, provided that they send their children to school regularly.
In order to increase girls' enrollment rates and transition rates from primary to secondary education, the amount of aid provided to girls and students attending secondary education has been increased.
In this context, a total of YTL 583 million in education support was provided between March 2003 and March 2007.
This practice has increased the schooling rate and
encouraged girls in particular to attend secondary education.
Today, 1 million 659 thousand children are receiving education under this program.
In addition, at the beginning of the academic year, the basic needs of low-income children studying in primary and secondary education such as stationery and aprons are met,
lunch is provided to poor students who are transported to schools within the scope of the transported education practice
and disabled students are transported to their schools free of charge.
In this context, education assistance in the 2003-2006 period amounted to YTL 1.5 billion.
The lowest-income 6% of the population receive monthly health assistance directly to mothers, provided that their pre-school-age children have regular health check-ups.
For this purpose, between March 2003 and March 2007, a total of 944-103 children received YTL 213 million in aid.
These aids continue on a regular basis.
The health expenses of our citizens who lack social security and do not qualify for a Green Card, and the needs of our disabled people for auxiliary tools and equipment such as foot prostheses, crippled cars and hearing aids are met.
Thus, during the Justice and Development Party's rule, no citizen was left in the lurch in terms of health care.
In the last four years, a total of YTL 904 million has been utilized from the Fund for health expenditures in this context.
"Coal Distribution" was made free of charge to citizens in need, contributing significantly to making them spend the winter in a comfortable environment.
During the AK Party period, more than 1 million tons of coal was delivered to an average of 1.8 million poor families every year.
The total amount of coal distributed exceeded 4 million tons and YTL 735 million1 .
The Justice and Development Party will continue its social assistance and support policies more vigorously under a new structure in its next term of government.
The inventory and information system, which is now largely established, will be further strengthened by the Address Based Population Registration System, which is nearing completion.
Social security, social assistance and social services will be carried out on a central organization and citizen information system.
Thus, the situation and needs of all our citizens will be collectively known, and
social assistance, social support and services will be delivered without even the need for a request.
In our new period of government, we will realize the requirements and practices of being a modern social state more systematically and effectively.
In our social assistance policy, families, especially those in the lowest income group, receive periodic health services for their children
and monthly payments to mothers for each child will be maintained to ensure their continued education.
Production-based subsidies conditional on cooperatives in rural areas will be increased.
The amount of individual job acquisition assistance will be increased and continued.
Monthly periodic aids sent to the Social Assistance and Solidarity Foundations in every province and district to meet the urgent needs of our citizens on the spot will continue to increase every year.
Efforts will be made to ensure the employability of graduates of university departments such as sociology and psychology in the fields of social services and assistance.
This will reduce youth unemployment and
meet the need for qualified personnel in the field of social services and assistance.
Family, Women, Children and Older Persons
The Justice and Development Party attaches great importance to the institution of the family, which forms the nucleus of society.
The AK Party government, which has implemented many innovations to protect and develop the integrity of the Turkish family, has pursued family-centered policies to solve the problems of women, children, the elderly and the disabled.
The Justice and Development Party is determined to continue these policies to build a "strong individual, strong family and strong society".
The AK Party has made comprehensive legal arrangements to combat domestic violence, which it sees as a bleeding wound in our society.
The AK Party, which is also following the implementation of these regulations, acts with a zero tolerance approach in the fight against domestic violence, honor killings and honor killings.
Under the AK Party government, a mobilization has been launched to reach a permanent and realistic solution to this problem.
The Commission for Monitoring Violence against Women was established, the
Violence Action Plan 2006-2010 was prepared,
field surveys were conducted throughout the country, and
training and awareness-raising activities were accelerated.
In order to prevent neglect and abuse of women, children and disabled people, ALO 183 Family, Child and Disabled Social Service Hotline was put into service.
The number of Family Counseling and Community Centers, which provide services to women, youth and families in need of social support, was increased from 17 to 38, and the number of
women's guesthouses, which provide services to women victims of neglect, abuse and violence, was increased from 8 to 19.
In addition, local governments are authorized to open shelters.
As a result of these efforts, the total number of women's guest houses will reach 50 in 2007.
The services provided to children, youth, the elderly and the disabled have increased exponentially with the AK Party Government.
Today, approximately 32,000 children, youth, elderly and disabled people receive inpatient services in 523 institutions and 48 children's homes, which have acquired a brand new face.
Around 415 thousand people receive daytime services.
The number of beneficiaries increased by 2.5 times and in-kind cash assistance increased by 9 times.
This means better quality services for more citizens.
All these services were provided without waiting for the citizen's application, with the understanding of reaching those in need, as a requirement of the principle of social state.
AK Party fights all forms of discrimination against women,
education of our girls
and strengthening the institution of the family, the most fundamental unit of society, are among its main priorities.
The organizational structures of institutions providing services for the family were renewed, their
personnel needs were met and their legislation was adapted to the conditions.
Accordingly, the organizational laws of the General Directorate on the Status of Women and the General Directorate of Family and Social Research were enacted.
With the amendments to Articles 10 and 90 of the Constitution, the New Labor Law, the New Penal Code and the Law on the Protection of the Family, important legal arrangements have been made for gender equality and employment.
The AK Party supports the participation of women in all areas of social life and considers their participation in employment as one of the sine qua non conditions for Turkey's development and prosperity.
In order to increase women's entrepreneurship and women's employment, training, consultancy, funding and financing services were provided to women entrepreneurs.
Previously, the income generated by housewives from the sale of their products was taxed, but under the AK Party government, all income generated in this way has been exempted from taxation.
With the support of local governments, necessary environments and facilities were provided for the marketing of the products of our women's handicrafts.
Our Party believes that "the place of the child is with his/her family" and has prioritized family care over institutional care.
In order to support children who were taken under protection for economic reasons with their families, monthly aids, which were 90 YTL in 2002, were increased to 325 YTL in 2007.
The longing of parents for a son, a child for a home, a sibling for a brother or sister has been alleviated.
While only 268 children were returned to their families in 2002, this number increased to 4-503 in the period 2003-2007.
Thousands of children who were about to be separated from their families for economic reasons were supported in this way.
Arrangements were made to accelerate the foster family service model and adoption for our children.
These alternative models, which offer a more humane service at a lower cost, have been concrete examples of our innovative and compassionate management approach.
While 170 YTL was paid to foster families in 2002, this amount was increased to 450 YTL in 2007 and the
number of children in foster care doubled.
In the same period, the number of adopted children increased from 6,976 to 8,940.
As an innovative practice, the "Houses of Love" project has been implemented and
our children have started to move into Houses of Love and Children's Homes, which have been created in conditions close to a family environment.
By the end of 2007, 40% of our children will be in these warm environments.
With these practices, the AK Party government has succeeded in eliminating institutional care, ward-type rooms, and conditions that do not befit human dignity.
The number of children staying in dormitories was reduced from 10'20 to 2-6, the
number and quality of staff was increased and the quality of service was raised to the level our children deserve. The
practice of one foster mother for 20-25 children was discontinued and the
practice of one foster mother for 8 children in each shift, three shifts a day, was introduced.
In order to improve service quality, maintenance and cleaning works were separated from each other and
maintenance workers were required to receive training.
The same practice has been implemented in nursing homes and care and rehabilitation centers for the elderly and disabled.
The AK Party government considers protecting our children from crime and all forms of abuse as one of its main priorities.
With the Child Protection Law, the Ministry has demonstrated its understanding of placing the best interest of the child above all else. In this context, 6 protection-care and rehabilitation centers were opened and
8 additional centers were included in the investment program.
Child and Youth Centers, which have the mission of protecting our children from all kinds of risks and dangers, have been expanded.
The number of these centers for children living or working on the streets was increased from 22 to 44.
The number of observatories, which was only one in the past, has been increased to eight, and
two additional night shelters have been established.
Our elderly, whom we approach within the framework of our traditional values and modern developments, have also received important services during the AK Party rule.
While 4952 elderly people were being cared for in 2002, this number increased to 6222 in 2007.
The way was paved for the provision of "Home Care and Day Care Services" to the elderly in their natural social environment, just like children and disabled people.
The age 65 pension paid under Law No. 2022 was increased from YTL 25 at the end of 2002 to YTL 73 in January 2007 with an increase of 197 percent.
AK Party not only as a government but also as a Party has given special importance to our elderly.
With the understanding that the future cannot be built without knowing the value of the past and building strong bridges between the past and the future, the Elderly Coordination Center was established within our Party.
This Center, which has an extension in all our organizations, has been following all kinds of problems of our elderly people.
In this context, our organizations have developed special programs and
carried out special support activities for the elderly.
In the period ahead, the AK Party will continue its efforts to improve the status of the family, strengthen the family institution and raise the living standards of family members as a whole.
Support will continue to be provided to NGOs working on women and family issues and civil society-state cooperation will continue to be developed.
Cooperation with civil society will continue through the women and family advisory supreme councils established for this purpose.
The number of Family Counseling and Training Centers established to provide guidance to families on social, economic and legal issues will be increased.
The number of parenting schools will be increased in order to eliminate the communication gap between family members caused by population growth and urbanization and to strengthen harmony among family members.
Parental leave will be legalized and childcare responsibilities will be shared between mother and father.
Family Life Education will be disseminated within the programs of formal and non-formal education institutions in order to provide support on issues such as spouse selection, family formation, having children, responsible parenting, family relations and home economics.
Cooperation and communication between public institutions and organizations, local administrations, universities and non-governmental organizations working against domestic violence will be improved on an institutional and practical basis.
The work we are currently carrying out with our 67 community centers will be developed and continued.
In its second term in power, the AK Party will continue its goal of strengthening the family as a social institution.
Necessary steps will be taken to spread a family structure with strong economic, social, cultural and spiritual values throughout the country
and priority will be given to families in need.
To this end, the fundamental values that nourish the family will be protected
and the family institution will be ensured to receive a larger share of social and economic stability in order to raise healthy generations.
In addition, widespread programs will be implemented to support the social and cultural development of women, the most vital actors of the family institution, after marriage
and ensure that mothers become good educators.
With the "marriage counseling service" provided within the scope of social services, efforts will be made to solve the problems arising in the family and strengthen the family institution.
The AK Party is determined to continue the initiatives for our children in the coming period.
All measures will be taken to prevent sexual abuse of children, and the
necessary awareness will be created in families and children by using the media and educational organs.
Necessary measures will be taken to prevent violence in media broadcasts.
Youth
A qualified, entrepreneurial youth with high self-confidence and a sense of national values is our main asset that will carry our country to the place it deserves.
Our youth, with their creative energy and bright minds, are the guarantee of our bright future.
Our youth, who look at the world with the self-confidence they derive from their history and spiritual values, are our dynamic power that will make Turkey a global actor.
The Justice and Development Party aims to make our youth the most important actors that will increase our competitiveness.
Embraced democratic and pluralist values,
seeing differences as richness
and raising a youth that knows how to take responsibility are among the primary goals of our party.
The actions we have successfully implemented in this direction during the AK Party rule have raised the standard of living of young people of all ages and
opened up new horizons for them.
General and vocational education, employment, dissemination of youth entrepreneurship and overseas programs aim to strengthen our youth materially and spiritually.
In this context, as we promised in our last election manifesto, we lowered the election age to 25 and opened the way for our young people to politics.
We organized short-term camps and workshops with young people to identify targets in the youth field
and facilitated the use of Youth Centers.
We gave legal status to Youth and Women Assemblies in order to support our youth by local governments
and ensured that Local Youth Assemblies have a voice in the decision-making processes of local governments.
We made it compulsory to establish Student Councils at universities
and enabled students to participate in university administrations.
We increased aid to youth clubs across the country.
We have implemented study abroad and exchange programs for our young people to gain international experience and participate in awareness-raising activities.
We ensured that young people, especially children from low-income families, benefit from excursions and summer camps free of charge.
We established a Parliamentary Investigation Commission to prevent the tendency of young people and children to violence
and ensured that it works effectively.
It is of strategic importance that young generations who are productive, able to make decisions, use information correctly and are prone to information and communication technologies contribute to the innovation capacity of our country.
In the second term of the AK Party government, our efforts to empower the youth will continue with the same determination.
In this framework, effective mechanisms will be developed for the active participation of young people in social life and local and national decision-making processes.
Youth Centers will be encouraged to spread throughout the country.
Cooperation of public institutions with civil society organizations working in the field of youth will be improved.
Guidance and psychological counseling services in educational institutions will be made more professional.
Services for career planning and guidance of young people will be expanded.
In cooperation with universities and other professional organizations, new opportunities will be offered to young people who want to start their own businesses, and
"Business Establishment and Development Centers" will be established in every province.
European Union education, youth and student exchange programs will be expanded and
the opportunity to carry out joint projects with young people from different countries will be widened.
Necessary work will be carried out for our young people to work and gain experience in international institutions and organizations.
The European Union Education and Youth Programs run by the National Agency will continue and
more young people will be encouraged to gain knowledge and experience abroad.
Comprehensive programs will continue to be implemented to protect our youth from all kinds of harmful substances and habits.
Disabled people
The Justice and Development Party is based on the principle that "no one will be discriminated against on the basis of physical or mental disabilities".
Within this understanding, the way has been paved for the participation of disabled people in economic and social life to an extent incomparable to the past.
Our Party considers the fight against restrictions affecting 8.5 million citizens and their families as one of its main objectives.
The Law on Disabled Persons, which was a complete reform during the AK Party rule, has raised the dignity of disabled people in the society, setting an example for many countries in the world.
With this arrangement; vocational rehabilitation services for the disabled are being expanded.
It is obligatory to take measures and make physical environmental arrangements to enable the disabled person to do his/her job.
All disabled children identified as in need of special education were provided with education services.
Disabled university students are provided with tools and equipment, special course materials are prepared, and
education, research and accommodation environments suitable for disabled people are prepared.
Disabled civil servants with professions are appointed to vacant positions appropriate to their professions
and the auxiliary tools and equipment they will use while practicing their professions are provided by their institutions.
Care services are provided at home or in private institutions for disabled people in need of care who do not have social security, who have lost their families and whose families are in economic or social deprivation.
Pensions for the disabled were increased by 2 or 3 times depending on the degree of disability.
In this context, 317,000 disabled people were paid YTL 537 million in 2006.
Our disabled citizens have been given the opportunity to have their dental treatments done directly in private offices without getting a referral from an official health institution.
- Bağ-Kur and Retirement Fund members were also provided with the opportunity to purchase a motorized invalid car.
In the AK Party government, more than 134 thousand disabled people in need of special education started to have their expenses for special education covered up to 388 YTL per month.
In the 2004-2005 academic year, a new practice was launched to provide free access to schools for children in need of special education.
In the 2006-2007 academic year, the number of beneficiaries of this facility reached 27 thousand.
In addition, textbooks for disabled students were provided free of charge at the beginning of the year in Braille, as was the case for non-disabled children.
The participation of disabled citizens in cultural life was supported through initiatives in areas such as libraries, internet libraries and copyrights.
During the AK Party period, various arrangements have been made to improve the economic conditions of our disabled people.
For the first time during our government period, disabled children under the age of 18 were provided with pension.
Tax exemption has been introduced for various expenditures made by disabled people such as cars, houses, special tools and equipment and computer programs.
A concrete reflection of our arrangements and efforts is seen in employment figures.
In 2002, while 11 thousand disabled people could find employment opportunities, this number reached 23 thousand in 2006.
During the AK Party government period, the practice of paying 403 YTL per month to our disabled people if they are cared for at home and 806 YTL per month if they are cared for in private care centers was started.
In 2007, 65.000 disabled people are programmed to benefit from this opportunity.
In addition, the Center for Life without Disabilities Project provides care services for 12 people in a home-like environment.
In this context, the construction of 168 "living houses" in 20 centers is ongoing.
As a result of all these and similar innovations, our country has experienced a change that can be described as historic in the field of disabled people.
At the point we have reached, relatives of the disabled are no longer worried about "what will happen to my child if I die".
In the coming period, the Justice and Development Party will ensure that the reforms it has made in the field of disabled people are implemented in the best possible way.
In addition, it will continue to make new arrangements in the coming period in order to integrate our disabled people into the society and to increase their welfare, peace and happiness.
In order to increase the employment of disabled people, social insurance premiums of disabled people working in the private sector will be paid by the Treasury.
Secondary legislation to be enacted for the disabled to benefit from the rights granted by the Law on Disabled Persons will be completed
and bureaucratic procedures required to benefit from these rights will be reduced.
In order to place disabled people in a job they can do, it will be determined which disability group can do which jobs.
Priority will be given to the employment of disabled people in the identified jobs.
Care opportunities for the disabled, primarily in their own residences and with their families, will be expanded.
Social and vocational rehabilitation services provided to the disabled by all public institutions and organizations will be expanded.
All public administrations shall take necessary measures to make the physical environment habitable for persons with disabilities.
The work on the Turkish Sign Language System, which was initiated for the education and communication needs of our disabled citizens, will be completed rapidly.
Above all, intensive efforts will continue to be made to raise public awareness of discriminatory practices against persons with disabilities and to foster healthy social relations.
Peace and Order
Creating an environment where our people live without fear, are secure in their lives and property, can dispose of their property as they wish, can exercise their rights and freedoms without worry, and can develop and realize themselves is the fundamental element of our governance policies.
Our main goal is to meet our nation's demands for democracy and security simultaneously and in a complementary manner.
True peace and security are only possible in a society where freedom and justice are fully realized.
During its nearly five years in power, the AK Party has taken important steps in both the legal infrastructure of security and the activation of security forces.
The Law on the Duties and Powers of the Police was amended in order to increase the effectiveness of preventive law enforcement duties.
In support of general security, private security services have been re-evaluated with a modern approach and legalized.
New arrangements have been made to ensure that sports competitions take place in an atmosphere of peace, trust and sportsmanship.
The target is to increase the number of police officers to one officer for every two hundred and fifty inhabitants.
Accordingly, seven new police schools were opened, increasing the number of police schools from 20 to 27.
Thus, the number of police officers joining the organization increased from 4,000 to over 11,000 in one year.
The technical and administrative capacity of the police and the Gendarmerie in criminal investigations has been improved,
thereby increasing the crime clearance rate.
In order to intervene in incidents as soon as possible and to provide the fastest and most effective security services to our citizens by prioritizing the rights and freedoms of individuals, mobile communication technology has been used to monitor the streets, avenues and squares of our cities through video surveillance.
The project was expanded to 58 provinces and 36 districts.
The Project for Creating Computer Aided Crime Maps and Conducting Crime Analyses was put into service in order to determine the locations, times, concentration periods and sensitive areas of crimes committed in the gendarmerie responsibility area and to make preventive law enforcement activities more effective.
Another useful application in this context is the Identity Notification System Project.
As a reflection of the strong link we have established between security and the social structure, the Community Supported Security Service Project has been put into practice during the AK Party rule in order to ensure the active participation of institutions, non-governmental organizations and citizens in crime prevention activities.
In the period ahead, we will intensify our efforts to ensure the peace and security of our people with increasing determination and with policies and programs to be activated.
It is not about catching criminals, but about preventing crimes from being committed.
In this context, preventive law enforcement will be emphasized simultaneously with a strong social policy.
The preventive law enforcement powers of the general police force will be redefined through legal regulations, and their
working conditions and overtime will be addressed with a realistic approach.
The police and gendarmerie will be further strengthened in terms of human resources, technology, equipment and materials.
In order for the police to perform their duties of preventing danger and crime, investigating crimes committed and apprehending the perpetrators more effectively, the execution of procedures that do not require police training and professionalism, such as issuing driver's licenses, passports and licenses, will be transferred to the relevant civilian administrative units.
The protection of public buildings, facilities and bridges will be handed over to private security organizations so that more police officers can be deployed to prevent crime and danger.
Laws will be enforced decisively, and the
The practices of governors and district governors, security chiefs and their personnel, and their performance in ensuring security will be effectively monitored and evaluated.
The Strategy for Combating Public Order Crimes, which has been prepared to combat public order crimes that affect the daily lives of our people, especially in big cities, will be developed and implemented.
As part of the Strategy to Combat Public Order Crimes, plainclothes Security Teams and mobile Lightning Teams are being formed in cities to immediately intervene in crimes and catch perpetrators in the act, especially in the event of a crime.
The Crime Analysis Center Project, which will operate on scientific principles, will be implemented, where all data on crimes will be continuously monitored and evaluated, and counter-strategies and tactics of the police will be developed.
The intelligence capacities of security forces will be increased and
more effective coordination of intelligence will be ensured.
The phenomena of violence, substance abuse and street children, which are becoming widespread among young people, will be emphasized,
social and academic studies will be carried out to analyze the problem in all its dimensions, and
necessary measures will continue to be taken to ensure close cooperation and consultation between school-family-security forces.
In this framework, the Project for the Protection of Children at Risk will be implemented.
The 112 Emergency Assistance Call Center Project, which envisages that our citizens will be able to call a single number for help in emergencies and that the call centers of the Police, Gendarmerie, Coast Guard, Fire Brigade and Ambulance will be unified, will be implemented.
Intensive use of technology will be introduced in traffic registration, registration and inspection services,
rule violations will be punished in the most severe manner
and a Zero Tolerance approach will be adopted.
Media influence on the crime phenomenon will be emphasized.
How the crime is perceived is as important as the crime itself.
Crime-related behaviors that create panic, fear and insecurity in society will be combated and
efforts will be made to ensure the cooperation and support of the media.
Joint work will be carried out with municipalities, mukhtars, education and training institutions, school family unions, non-governmental organizations, private security organizations, other relevant institutions and organizations and media organizations to take physical and social measures to ensure effective fight against crime.
Training programs for the implementation of the regulations made in the field of Criminal and Criminal Procedural Law will be put into effect, and
Public Prosecutors and law enforcement will be encouraged to work more closely and in unity of understanding.
Religious Services
The Justice and Development Party sees religious services as an important area for keeping moral and spiritual values alive and ensuring national solidarity and integration,
During the period of our government, all kinds of support were provided to the Presidency of Religious Affairs for the effective execution of religious services.
During this period, the Directorate of Religious Affairs continued its services with great care,
has drastically revamped the institutional infrastructure,
education and training programs have been updated to meet today's needs.
During the period of our government, the Presidency of Religious Affairs has remained outside of all political views and opinions, and has been committed to promoting the unifying and integrative characteristic of religion,
emphasized the dignity of the institution of religion
and has enjoyed the common acceptance and favor of all segments of society.
While conducting religious services, the Presidency of Religious Affairs has stood at an equal distance to everyone, seeing the differences in society as the richness of our country, without discriminating between sects, understanding and practices.
and provided services on the basis of citizenship.
The Presidency of Religious Affairs has prepared projects to develop trainers, educators, materials and equipment in order to realize both non-formal education for the public and in-service training of personnel in line with the data of contemporary educational sciences,
has continued to work with a scientific understanding and put them into practice.
In the new period, while continuing to raise the level of knowledge, culture and education of the personnel through the aforementioned projects, the
necessary work will be initiated to ensure that every religious official is a graduate of at least a four-year faculty.
The Presidency of Religious Affairs has developed new policies and targets for different audiences in the field of printed and visual publications in order to more effectively fulfill its duty of "enlightening the society on religion" as stated in its founding law, and to
this end, it has prepared works for children, youth, family and the public
and distributed most of them to our people free of charge.
The Presidency of Religious Affairs considers it an integral part of religious service to be with citizens in need of more attention and support, such as the disabled, orphans, the elderly, the poor, convicts and prisoners, and
considers raising social awareness on issues such as fundamental rights and freedoms, the environment, peace and tolerance, and women's rights as a requirement of non-formal religious education.
A service approach along the same lines has been meticulously maintained in the Turkic Republics, both in the cognate and "related" communities and in the countries where our citizens living abroad are located,
able to reach continents, such as Africa, that we have not been able to reach so far.
The Presidency of Religious Affairs has reviewed the services it provides to our citizens living abroad in the light of changing conditions,
developed new alternatives by taking into account the policies of the countries concerned,
started to train personnel by opening theology departments within the universities in the countries in question, and started to
bring students from these countries to our country for higher religious education in agreement with the Council of Higher Education.
In the coming years, new projects will be implemented to ensure that our citizens living in Europe receive self-sufficient religious services and religious education.
The Presidency of Religious Affairs, which regularly enlightens the public on issues related to its area of responsibility, has not remained a spectator to social unrest, and
in this context, it has drawn public attention to negative developments that threaten our peace and tranquility, all kinds of discrimination, violations of the rights of women, honor killings and domestic violence, social problems such as the protection of street children, drug addicts, the elderly and orphans, and has
enlightened the society on these issues from a religious perspective.
As a result of the serious efforts made, our Presidency of Religious Affairs has gained the trust and confidence of our people in our country, gained
appreciation in the world by expanding abroad, and
today has reached a global level where it is recognized, known and consulted.
During our government period, all necessary support was given to the Presidency of Religious Affairs in order to fulfill all these services,
the personnel it needed and had not had the opportunity to obtain for years were reinforced and limited improvements were made in their personal rights.
In the new period, new improvements will be made taking into account the delays.
The Presidency of Religious Affairs will continue its religious services in a way to respond more effectively to the needs of society.
EMPLOYMENT
The priorities of our people have been the priorities of our Party since the day it was founded.
The pre-2002 social collapse caused by inefficient coalition structures and mismanagement was brought under control and overcome with the realistic, multi-faceted and long-term policies of our government.
In line with the needs of our people, our main priority has been to create employment opportunities for our growing population and the unemployed.
The problem of employment, which we attach great importance not only economically but also socially, has been approached from a multidimensional perspective.
During the period of our government; with the awareness that it is possible with a healthy economic structure to provide our people with job opportunities and to find a solution to social problems, we have shifted from an economic structure based on rent to production.
and an economic structure based on employment.
The era of making money from money is over, and
an era in which doing business and earning with labor, sweat, knowledge and skills is essential has begun.
With the confidence and stability we achieved, we realized rapid, high and sustainable growth and
healed the wounds caused by past crises.
In an approach that supports production and employment, a comprehensive incentive law was put into practice,
investments, which are the dynamics of employment generation, were revitalized and
capacity utilization rates for production were increased.
Work was produced, not words.
Investment and employment were encouraged in low-income provinces, and
investment and employment were increased in 49 provinces through free land and energy incentives as well as tax and insurance premium reductions.
The number of insured employees hired for the first time in workplaces benefiting from this scheme exceeded 246 thousand.
From March 2002, when unemployment insurance payments started, until the end of 2006, 753 thousand people were entitled to unemployment benefits
and a total of YTL 960 million was paid to these people.
The Unemployment Insurance Fund will be used more effectively in the coming period,
conditions of use will be facilitated.
Fund resources will be used not only for support to the unemployed but also for projects to be developed to increase employment.
As a result of financial arrangements such as unemployment insurance premium reductions and equalization of the minimum wage and the lower limit of earnings subject to premium, the employer premium rate was reduced by approximately 9 percentage points.
As a result of this reduction, YTL 14.4 billion was removed from the backs of the private sector during the period of our government, and
this resource was transferred in a way to allow it to be used in investment, production, employment and consumption.
Projects such as "IT Apprentices", which target poor youth, and project-based support for people from poor backgrounds to start a business have begun to be popularized as innovative practices in the field of employment.
Our SME policy has been carried out with an employment-oriented approach,
access to financial markets for SMEs, which are of great importance in terms of employment, has been facilitated, the
amount of support provided to SMEs has been significantly increased
and these supports have been diversified.
As a result of the environment of confidence and stability we have created and the measures we have implemented, unemployment has entered a downward trend.
Despite the increase of 4 million people in our population since the end of 2002, the number of unemployed people has decreased by 18 thousand people as of the end of 2006.
In other words, despite the increase of 4 million population, no new unemployed people were created, and the number of unemployed people inherited was reduced.
More precisely, if zero unemployment had been inherited in 2002, zero unemployment would have continued today, despite increased productivity, population and migration movements.
Under our government, employment in non-agricultural sectors increased by 2.3 million people in four years.
In the last four years covering the 2003-2006 period, Turkey has been the second largest employment generator in non-agricultural sectors among EU-2-5 countries after Spain.
Agricultural employment, on the other hand, underwent a transformation, with the number of employees falling from 7.5 million in 2002 to 6.1 million in 2006.
Taking this development into account, the average annual increase in general employment amounted to 244 thousand persons.
The general unemployment rate, which was 10.3 percent in 2002, declined to 9.9 percent in 2006.
In the 2002-2006 period, the share of industry in employment rose from 19 percent to 20 percent and the share of services from 46 percent to 53 percent.
In the same period, as a result of this process, which represents a structural transformation, the share of the agricultural sector in employment fell from 35% in 2002 to 27% in 2006.
This transformation, which represents an increase in productivity in our agricultural sector, has reduced the number of unpaid family workers, the majority of whom are women.
This efficiency-oriented transformation was achieved not through cumbersome public sector agglomeration, but through private sector-oriented development.
Our enterprises, whose investments and production have been revitalized in the environment of confidence we have provided, have started to create more and sustainable employment opportunities.
Yiiziz thousands of people have gained regular employment in the private sector, both wage and salaried.
This development has also been a positive factor in terms of improving income distribution.
We have now reached an era where social policies are at the center of long-term economic growth and development,
We will continue our efforts to increase employment and create more and better quality jobs.
In 21st century conditions, an entrepreneurial society that is qualified, skillful, self-confident, open to communication and innovation is the key to our competitiveness.
and will be the main dynamic of our development.
Our party, which has put the macro dynamics of the economy on a solid foundation and created a favorable environment for investments in our country that has gone through crises, will solve the unemployment problem of our people as the main agenda item in the coming period.
Our party, which entered the new period with a comprehensive preparation and design, is determined to implement a holistic, feasible and program-based approach to employment.
Our employment program, which will be implemented with a realistic content by providing institutional mechanisms and financing, will mobilize the dynamism of our hardworking and productive people.
Our employment program will consist of three main components that will be implemented as parts of a whole: Reducing Burdens on Labor
and Making the Market Flexible,
Active Labor Program and Strengthening the Vocational Training-Labor Market Relationship.
Reducing Burdens on Labor
Under the AK Party government, problems such as the heavy debt burden of the past and the budget with large deficits were solved through structural measures,
requirement of the priority we gave to employment, the burdens on employment were reduced by using all means available. As a
result of the 3 percentage point reduction in 2003, the unemployment insurance premium rate was reduced from 7 percent to 4 percent
and approximately YTL 6.7 billion of public revenue has been saved in the last 4.5 years.
With the equalization of the lower limit of earnings subject to social insurance premium to the minimum wage, in other words, with the end of the virtual minimum wage practice, a total of YTL 7.7 billion less insurance premiums were collected from employers during our government period.
All these measures have been implemented to create jobs and make our people productive.
Our Party is determined to significantly reduce the burden on employment in the period ahead.
Our successful performance in the economy and public finances has created a healthy basis for these additional steps we will take in employment.
In the period ahead, not only fiscal burdens but also administrative and legal burdens on employment will be reduced.
Bureaucratic formalities related to labor life will be further simplified,
unnecessary regulations will be avoided
and decision-making processes will be accelerated.
As for compulsory employment practices, arrangements will be made to encourage employers to employ workers, and
facilitating arrangements will be made for compulsory units to be opened according to the Labor Law in order to ease the burden on employment.
Necessary harmonization efforts will be made to make flexibility and security practices attractive for workers and employers by addressing them together.
In this framework, the SSI employer premium rate will be reduced gradually, starting with five points in 2008. The
SSI employer premium amount will be covered by the Treasury for employers' compulsory employment of disabled people.
Costs related to the establishment and closure of companies will be reduced,
trade registries will be established on the internet
and the majority of registration services will be carried out on the internet.
Practices such as investment support offices and social security centers will be increased and one-stop offices will be created,
processes related to business and working life will be simplified
and it will be accelerated.
Necessary information processing network will be established between public institutions in e-government application in matters related to business life such as establishing a business, transportation, bankruptcy.
Flexible forms of employment will be increased and
the relationship between flexibility and security will be preserved.
- By taking regional priorities into account, low-interest loan program will be expanded to meet the financing needs of SMEs, which are of great importance in terms of employment, in line with the increase in employment.
Strengthening Vocational Education - Labor Market Relationship
Due to the vicious debates and ideological approaches that are the remnants of past politics, despite the efforts we have made and the improvements we have achieved, a structure that does not comply with international norms and is disconnected from the demand of labor markets continues in the field of vocational education.
We are determined to overcome this problem, which closely concerns the future of our country, in consensus with all relevant segments, especially our employers and professional organizations.
Our government attaches great importance to making vocational education more responsive to the demands of the labor market.
To this end, efforts were made to set standards for a large number of professions
and the Vocational Qualifications Authority was established, which includes professional organizations and social partners.
In the coming period, based on this institutional structure and standards, vocational education will be developed in a result-oriented manner.
The infrastructure for a flexible system based on the program type instead of the school type in vocational education and allowing easy transitions between programs has been established and this system will be adopted in the coming period.
In addition, apprenticeship training centers and programs will be modernized,
vocational high schools and vocational colleges will provide training in cooperation with the labor market,
active participation of enterprises in determining training programs,
use of information and communication technologies in training
and establishment of Skill Development Centers in organized industrial zones.
Active Workforce Programs
There is a structural mismatch between the education system and the labor market in Turkey.
The large number of people looking for work on the one hand, and the large number of firms complaining that they cannot find qualified employees on the other, is a striking indicator of this structural problem.
We are determined to overcome this situation, especially in the field of intermediate manpower, not only through macro policies but also through micro policies and reforms that we will implement simultaneously.
Thus, on the one hand, our people will become better equipped and qualified, and on
the other hand, our companies will have the labor force with the qualifications they desire but cannot find.
The Turkish Employment Agency (IŞKUR), which was restructured as a modern public employment institution during the period of our government, will be brought to the capacity to implement Active Labor Force Programs effectively and widely.
Our government will significantly increase the resources allocated to these programs by allocating at least YTL 200 million from the Unemployment Insurance Fund each year.
Get a Job - Your Job is Ready Program:
During the period of our government, vocational training courses with employment guarantee were organized for thousands of people, where theoretical and on-the-job training were provided together.
Considering the success of vocational trainings, vocational training programs with employment guarantee will be expanded in areas demanded by employers.
In addition, people who have been unemployed for more than 12 months will be provided with skills training
and will be helped to find suitable jobs.
In the upcoming period, financing will be provided for vocational training projects prepared by local actors, particularly universities, civil society organizations, professional chambers and local administrations.
A labor market information system that provides access to comprehensive, qualified and up-to-date data on the labor market will be developed
and vocational training programs will be organized according to this system.
Young People Becoming Businessmen Program - "Bring a Project-Become an Entrepreneur":
Our youth are our future.
We attach great importance to education and entrepreneurship to ensure that our young population structure creates a real competitive advantage.
On the one hand, we will continue our reform efforts in the education sector, and on the other hand, we will mobilize the dynamism of our youth with target group-oriented and effective programs.
Programs will be implemented that target and provide concrete support to all of our graduates who have graduated from regular high schools and cannot find the opportunity to attend university, graduated from vocational high schools, vocational colleges and universities and are in the process of establishing a new future.
In its second term in power, our Party will increase the participation of young people in employment by encouraging them to start their own businesses.
Within this framework, the "Young People Becoming Businessmen Program" will be launched.
Entrepreneurship training will be provided for young people,
individual business plans will be prepared after the training and support such as consultancy, financing, marketing and free space allocation will be provided for the business to be established.
In this context, Business Development Centers (İŞGEM) will be established in every province, especially in provinces with high unemployment rates.
Young people will propose their projects to IŞGEM individually or in groups and the
successful ones will be put into practice.
Women Entrepreneurship Program:
Our women carry out many useful activities in their homes, from childcare to handicrafts to the organization of various social events.
However, their participation in labor markets is low.
Our main priorities include transforming this potential power, which we do not see in many countries, into economic value and making them effective in solving our social problems.
In its second term in power, the AK Party will launch a comprehensive women's entrepreneurship program in cooperation with relevant non-governmental organizations to ensure that women, whose participation in the labor market and employment is very limited, become successful entrepreneurs and contribute to both their families and their countries.
Support will be provided to our women entrepreneurs in all the issues they will need, starting from the business idea in the fields valid in the labor market, including after the establishment of the business.
Private Employment Agencies:
One of the important innovations introduced under our government is the abolition of ISKUR's monopoly authority in the labor market and the opening of private employment agencies.
In the upcoming period, private employment agencies will be made more effective
and expanded.
In this context, the temporary employment system through private employment agencies, which is practiced in EU countries, will be implemented in Turkey under the supervision of the state through legal amendments.
This will pave the way for private employment agencies to provide seasonal staffing services.
Moreover, cooperation between ISKUR and private employment agencies will be increased within the scope of job placement services.
MANAGING STRUCTURAL TRANSFORMATION
In the process of transformation from the industrial society to the information society, there is a very rapid change in almost every field,
competition is increasing day by day, and
the ways of working and doing business are changing.
Timely access to accurate information and timely adaptation to changing conditions are perceived as an indispensable condition for achieving competitive advantage.
In such a period, traditional sectors in particular may find it difficult to adapt to change and strengthen their position.
With this awareness and understanding, the Justice and Development Party will embrace the problems of the segments most affected by the rapid change process, especially the rural areas, tradesmen and craftsmen, SMEs and enterprises operating in traditional sectors, and will ensure that these segments play an active role in the construction of our strong and great Turkey.
To increase the competitiveness of all segments of our society, from farmers living in rural areas to businesses operating in our big cities, without ignoring our "social state" approach,
to ensure their interaction with the world
and transforming our country into a welfare society is our main goal.
Rural Development
For the first time, the Justice and Development Party government adopted a multifaceted policy and prepared a Rural Development Strategy for the rural areas where a significant part of our population lives.
In line with this strategy, in order to diversify job opportunities and raise income levels in rural areas, the government implemented projects to support rural development investments, and
initiated the establishment of the Agriculture and Rural Development Support Institution in order to benefit from EU funds.
Our government has addressed the agricultural and non-agricultural sectors in rural areas as a whole and
started to implement a deep-rooted and continuous rural development program.
Under this program, 1,256 projects were supported in 2006, all in rural areas.
In the 21st century, when we have reached the information age, the Justice and Development Party government, which takes care of our patient people who do not have roads and drinking water and try to meet their needs with transported water, has brought solutions to these problems in a short time by implementing the KÖYDEŞ and BELDES projects.
By allocating over YTL 4.5 billion to these projects in 2 years, our government has concretely demonstrated the importance it attaches to this issue.
The KÖYDEŞ project has also brought an innovation in the field of implementation,
Instead of solving problems from the center, our government has aimed to solve them locally, under the leadership of governors and district governors who know the conditions of the region, through special provincial administrations and Unions for Providing Services to Villages (KHGB), by using local facilities and capabilities in the most efficient way and in a short time.
AK Party government aims to bring drinking water and roads to all villages with the KÖYDEŞ project. In
2005 and 2006, our government completed 11,706 drinking water projects, 24,280 km. asphalt roads, 32,023 km. stabilized and raw roads.
By the end of 2007; 21,000 drinking water projects, 50,000 km. asphalt roads, 45,000 km. stabilized and raw roads will be completed.
With the BELDES project launched in 2007 to support the drinking water and road infrastructure of municipalities with a population of less than 10,000, the Justice and Development Party government has provided YTL 330 million to approximately 2,600 settlements.
Strengthening family business in rural areas,
boosting entrepreneurship,
transforming our existing product pattern into high value-added products,
We will expand programs to support non-agricultural activities such as tourism, handicrafts and the environment.
In this framework, we will support the projects of our citizens living in rural areas in the fields of handicrafts, tourism, etc., with a grant rate between 50 and 90 percent of the project amount through the Rural Development Institution.
We will identify products and areas with high competitiveness on a basin basis and direct the support to these products and areas.
Thus, it will give our regions roles that will enable them to specialize according to their relative advantages,
we will also be able to realize production planning.
We will support organic animal husbandry and facilities for processing their products in regions with livestock potential and clean environment.
The same approach will be applied to organic fruit and vegetable production and beekeeping. In
regions with climatic and geographical advantages, we will support vegetable-fruit and their processing facilities and investments supported by advanced technology and R&D (high-tech organized greenhouse zones).
We will attach importance to university-industry cooperation in agriculture.
We will also ensure the expansion of organizations such as producer cooperatives.
By developing the infrastructure of tourism in our regions with nature and cultural tourism potential,
We will support private sector investors in these areas.
We will encourage the production and promotion of medicinal and aromatic plants and ornamental plants,
provide marketing opportunities and enable the use of biodiversity in rural areas.
We will provide support in areas such as beekeeping, sericulture and goose breeding, which are suitable for local conditions and have high competitiveness.
We will prioritize the social and environmental development of forest villagers and increase their income level.
Agriculture and Livestock
The agricultural sector, which employs 6.1 million people and provides livelihood for 2.7 percent of the working population, is of vital importance due to its indispensability in meeting the basic needs of our people.
Increasing the competitiveness of our agricultural sector,
to provide a sustainable structure
In order to clearly set out the policies we will implement in the medium term, our government has prepared the Agriculture Strategy Document.
and the Framework Law on Agriculture.
With a comprehensive approach, the Law on Agriculture includes provisions on biodiversity, protection of genetic resources and biosafety, product councils, contract production, agricultural basins and rural development services.
The AK Party adopts the principle that "All producers in the world are our potential competitors and all consumers are our potential customers".
During the AK Party rule, significant developments have been achieved in the agricultural sector in Turkey.
Total support to agriculture, which was YTL 1.8 billion in 2002, was increased to YTL 5.3 billion in 2007.
These figures do not include KÖYDEŞ and BELDES investments.
The contribution of the agricultural sector to GNP increased from USD 21.8 billion to USD 38.9 billion.
Our agricultural exports increased from 4 billion dollars to 8.6 billion dollars,
In 2002, annual agricultural imports and exports were almost the same, while in 2006, an export surplus of 1.4 billion dollars was achieved.
During the period of our government, there has been a great increase in tractor sales.
While 75 thousand tractors were sold in the four-year period until the end of 2002, this number increased to 134 thousand in the four-year period between 2003 and 2006.
The AK Party government attached importance to ensuring that agricultural subsidies were geared towards increasing production and productivity, and
reduced the share of FSA in total subsidies from 86 percent to 40 percent, and increased product subsidies six-fold.
In order to prevent the increase in crude oil prices from being reflected on the producers, diesel oil support was provided to our farmers for the first time.
Farmers' debts were restructured, reducing the debt of 765,000 producers by YTL 1.5 billion.
Another positive contribution of the policies to the agricultural sector was realized in loan interest rates.
From 59 percent in 2002, agricultural loan interest rates were reduced to between 7-13 percent depending on the type of loan.
Record increases were also realized in the amount of agricultural credits utilized.
While in 2002 the amount of agricultural credit extended through Ziraat Bank was YTL 228 million, this amount increased to YTL 4.2 billion as of May 2007.
In other words, the amount of agricultural credits increased 18-fold during the AK Party rule.
The Justice and Development Party abolished the joint and several suretyship system, which had become a serious and chronic problem for Turkish farmers
, and eliminated the victimization of 650,000 farmers who faced imprisonment and foreclosure.
Support for cooperatives, which is an important structure in the organization of farmers, has been significantly increased compared to previous periods.
While only 87 million YTL credits were provided to 287 cooperative projects in the 1999-2002 period, during our government period, 820 million YTL credits were provided to 1232 cooperative projects
and 148 thousand jobs were created.
Considering the problems that have been experienced in the agricultural sector for years such as marketing, sorting, packaging and storage of products to be supplied to the market when the market is suitable, grants ranging from 50 to 75 percent were given to rural development projects prepared by our farmers, including equipment such as processing, packaging, cold storage, corn drying, etc.
VAT rates on food and processed products and some agricultural inputs were reduced by 10 percentage points.
Organic agriculture, use of certified seeds, soil analysis, installation of drip and sprinkler systems and good agricultural practices are included in the scope of special support.
In order to prevent the problem of salinization caused by faulty irrigation and to ensure efficient use of water, the 'Drip and Sprinkler System' was put into operation and our producers were provided with the opportunity to take loans from Ziraat Bank with a 5-year maturity and install a drip or sprinkler system without paying a penny of interest.
Another important policy implemented in the agricultural sector is the leasing of agricultural enterprises (TlGEM), which have lost their productivity due to lack of new investments for years, to reduce the burden of the state
and pave the way for private sector investment.
In order to bring the latest knowledge in agriculture to our farmers, 2,500 agricultural engineers and veterinarians were employed and resided in central villages to serve 20 thousand villages.
In the coming period, the number of these agricultural advisors will be increased to 10 thousand
and they will serve all our villages.
In order to adapt our agricultural sector to the conditions of the day, the following reform laws were enacted.
The Soil Conservation and Land Use Law, which increases the minimum size of agricultural land to 20 decares; the
revolutionary Agricultural Insurance Law, which secures many risks faced by our farmers and where 50% of the premiums are paid by the state; the
Seed Law, which will put an end to foreign dependency in seed production; the Law on the
Protection of Breeders' Rights to New Plant Varieties, which will encourage the development of plant varieties and ensure the protection of new varieties and breeders' rights, The
Organic Agriculture Law, which will ensure the development of the production of organic products and inputs with high added value and high foreign demand; the
Licensed Warehousing Law, which will facilitate the trade of agricultural products, develop product exchanges, enable the trading of agricultural futures contracts in the futures and options exchange and prevent producers from being affected by price fluctuations;
the Law on Agriculture and Rural Development Support Institution, which creates the infrastructure for project-based grant support to our farmers; the
Law on Producer Associations, which will encourage organization.
The Justice and Development Party government was not satisfied with these laws; it prepared an Agricultural Development Master Plan, which laid out the road map for agricultural development, and
initiated "Basin-Based Project Implementations" in line with this plan.
Thus, state support in agriculture will be handled within the scope of separate projects for each region and each product
, and the realities of our country will be taken into consideration while implementing these programs.
In Turkey, the division of agricultural land from generation to generation causes the average parcel size to shrink and agricultural yields to decline.
During the AK Party period, arrangements were made to ensure that agricultural lands are not divided in terms of inheritance law, their protection, use and special land consolidation works, and the
minimum land size that cannot be divided was increased from 10 decares to 20 decares.
In order to accelerate land consolidation efforts, the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs, as well as DSI, cooperatives and municipalities have been authorized to carry out land consolidation.
Significant progress has also been achieved in pasture improvement works, and pasture improvement, which was 68,000 decares in 2002, was increased to 900,000 decares in 2005.
Thanks to the effective incentive policies implemented, feed crops production increased by 261 percent from 6.5 million tons in 2002 to 17 million tons in 2006.
Drought Management Coordination Board was established to assess the impact of global climate change on the agricultural sector in a timely manner.
In this framework, a drought action plan including various scenarios concerning the whole country has been prepared.
We attach great importance to the information infrastructure, land and farmer registration system in order to ensure that the decisions we take in the agricultural sector are based on a sound foundation
, and we have reached an advanced stage in this regard.
The basic approach of the Justice and Development Party in its agricultural policies is that in a "globalized" and "more liberalized trade" world, Turkey should be "self-sufficient" in basic agricultural products,
"to compete with the world"
and participate in the race for "leadership" in world markets.
Our goal is to create a structure that closely monitors trends in consumption and communicates developments to small and medium-sized producers with an "early warning" logic.
Within the framework of the road map we have prepared, we will differentiate agricultural supports on the basis of area and product.
Through licensed warehousing and commodity exchanges to be developed, we will take the formation of prices in the free market as a basis
and ensure that production is shaped according to the demand in market conditions.
We will also make significant progress in the registration and standardization of agricultural products
and facilitate their access to international markets.
In order to increase competitiveness, export subsidies will focus on products with high added value, branded products and products aimed at final consumers.
Producer organizations will be expanded and training and extension services will be provided by these organizations.
In order to obtain productive and high quality products in crop production, varieties suitable for ecological conditions will be identified,
new agricultural techniques will be applied
and alternative production methods will be used,
effective and integrated methods of combating plant diseases and pests will be implemented.
Methods and tools for the efficient use of soil and water resources will be prioritized.
We will continue to support sprinkler and drip system investments that we have started to develop for conscious irrigation.
We will prioritize and rationalize irrigation projects and allocate sufficient resources to these projects.
We will open the irrigation and maintenance parts of the completed dam projects to private sector investment.
In addition to the limited direct income support (DGD) payment per area, additional support for producers who have soil analysis, use certified seeds and engage in organic farming activities
premium payments will be continued for crops that are deemed necessary.
Launched in 2005, we will continue the area-based diesel and fertilizer support scheme.
We will implement incentives for diversion to products in short supply in our country, especially oilseeds, which have an important place in our imports.
We will expand the pilot basin-based incentives across the country.
Agricultural consultant practice will be expanded
and private consultancy firms will be encouraged to establish and provide services.
In this way, we will make it easier for our farmers to access information by employing agricultural engineers and veterinarians.
Measures to expand contract production with market guarantee will be implemented.
Energy Agriculture, which is becoming increasingly important in the world, will be developed and made widespread, and the
production of bioethanol and biodiesel needed by agriculture and other sectors will be encouraged.
We will implement Organized Agricultural Zones projects.
We will give maximum importance and support to domestic seed development efforts and
encourage the private sector to work in this direction.
We will accelerate work on modernization of agriculture and food enterprises, land consolidation, plant and animal health and food safety.
We will make the Agricultural Information System a structure that enables control and monitoring to determine agricultural policies and priorities and to ensure that real producers benefit from agricultural support mechanisms within this framework.
We will restructure the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs within the framework of current conditions and harmonization with the European Union.
We will enact a Law on Biosafety to protect human health and the environment in the production of genetically modified organisms and products.
We will establish a Sworn Food Controller system to ensure food safety and efficiency in food control.
Livestock farming
We will resolutely continue the mindset change we have initiated to increase the competitiveness of our country, which has a great potential in the livestock sector.
Our government has increased and will continue to increase the support we provide for animal husbandry, especially for the breeding of our domestic breeds.
In 2006, the number of artificial inseminations, which was 624,000 in 2002, was increased to 2,100,000 and increased approximately three times.
The amount of support for livestock was increased from YTL 75 million in 2002 to YTL 660 million in 2006.
Many of the Research Institutes and II Control Laboratories operating for the diagnosis of animal diseases, analysis and quality control in food and feed control have been renewed and accredited according to the conditions of the day.
The AK Party government will continue to attach special importance to the livestock sector in the coming period.
We will take measures to increase the scale of our livestock farms in order to make them more competitive.
We will support the establishment of integrated livestock enterprises.
We will increase the support for collective milking facilities and
support private sector organizations raising breeding animals.
We will continue to lease state land to private sector enterprises on favorable terms.
We will continue to increase the breeding of our local breeds and pasture improvement works, which gained great momentum during the AK Party period.
The AK Party government, which has shown exemplary success in the fight against bird flu, will continue to fight against such diseases intensively in the new period.
We will encourage the establishment of private laboratories.
In animal husbandry, we will continue the measures taken for breeding, combating diseases and pests, and increasing the production of quality fodder crops.
In the fisheries sector, we will give importance to the development of alternative species and encourage field fisheries.
We will accelerate legal, institutional and technical studies on marine fisheries and ensure that aquaculture activities are carried out in an environmentally sensitive manner.
In the new period, in addition to the work we have committed to do above, we will work towards world leadership by increasing our competitiveness in 20 key products by 2013.
Small and Medium Enterprises and Tradesmen and Craftsmen
We see our small and medium-sized enterprises, which have an important place in our traditional structure, as dynamic elements of our economic and social life.
Our small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs), which have a very important place in creating employment, increasing our competitiveness and strengthening our social structure, are among the priorities of the AK Party government.
It will make great contributions to our country's past and present, as well as its future.
In our world, where the transition from the industrial society to the information society is accelerating, large-scale cumbersome business structures that have difficulty in adapting to new conditions are being replaced by new business models that develop scale and flexibility together.
Today, structures that network to compete, concentrate on their core business, and operate a large number of small businesses with an efficient supply system and common standards are successful.
These structures, which minimize costs, create a communication and cooperation model that generates synergies with stakeholders such as the public sector, universities and the finance sector.
The Justice and Development Party approaches our SMEs, tradesmen and craftsmen in the light of these realities of the world
and aims to prepare this dynamic power for global competition.
Professionally managed,
make investment decisions based on scientific data,
with the ability to act together,
A business structure that is capable of networking has a prominent place in the AK Party's vision for the future.
In the race for SMEs to access information and transform information into added value, we attach importance to and support their transition from family business to modern business.
We consider the employment generation capacity of SMEs, which account for 77 percent of total employment, to be very important for our social policies.
In addition to our general policies, we are supporting these enterprises much more strongly than in the past through direct support.
In parallel with the decline in the government's borrowing requirement, the private banking and financial system has begun to offer a wider range of financing opportunities to small entrepreneurs.
The banking system, which used to predominantly finance the public sector, has started to focus on financing the real sector in the new environment we have provided.
Halk Bank's loans to artisans and craftsmen increased 17-fold from YTL 154 million in 2002 to YTL 2.6 billion in May 2007.
SME loans increased from YTL 347 million in 2002 to YTL 5 billion in 2007.
In 2002, only 63 thousand enterprises benefited from these facilities, whereas in 2007, approximately 500 thousand enterprises benefited from these facilities.
The share of such loans in the Bank's total loans increased from 12% in 2002 to 56% in 2007.
Ziraat Bank's SME loans increased by a record 76-fold from YTL 22 million in 2002 to YTL 1.7 billion in May 2007.
The per capita credit limit for tradesmen and craftsmen was raised from YTL 5,000 to YTL 25,000, while interest rates were reduced from 47% to 13%.
The Law No. 5362 on Tradesmen and Craftsmen Professional Organizations was enacted in accordance with the conditions of the day.
The records of approximately 2 million tradesmen and craftsmen have been updated with the e-Tradesmen project, which provides access to accurate information about our tradesmen and craftsmen in a short time.
During the AK Party period, KOSGEB supports were increased, the
conditions for receiving support were facilitated
and the supports provided were diversified.
The number of subsidies was increased from 8 to 22
and the number of documents required from SMEs while providing subsidies was reduced from 48 to 5.
While the number of SMEs supported in this framework was less than 3,000 before 2002, this number reached 54,000 enterprises during the AK Party period.
In order to institutionalize traditional enterprises and increase their competitiveness, the Strategic Road Map application was launched and the
road maps of 9,000 enterprises were approved.
For the first time, the Justice and Development Party has provided loan interest support to SMEs as an innovative practice. With the
practice initiated in 2004, our government provides SMEs with "0" interest business, export and investment loans up to 24 months from public banks.
Approximately 10,000 SMEs benefited from this facility in 2004-2006
and utilized YTL 1 billion in export credits.
Thus, these enterprises exported 608 million dollars.
In the period 2003 - 2007 (April), a total of YTL 231 million in grants were provided to SMEs in areas such as training, consultancy, R&D, domestic and international fairs and promotion.
The functionality of KOBI Venture Capital Investment Trust (KOBI VCIT), established with the participation of TOBB, KOSGEB, Halk Bank and some Chambers of Commerce and Industry, was enhanced.
IT Apprenticeship training was initiated in cooperation with KOSGEB, İŞKUR and Social Assistance and Solidarity Fund.
Infrastructure facilities favorable for SME investments are being developed.
A total of 18 Organized Industrial Zones and 33 Small Industrial Sites were completed in 2004' 2006.
One of the main problems of our small businesses is loan collateral.
In order to pave the way for SMEs to access financial resources, the capital of the Credit Guarantee Fund (KGF) was increased 15-fold to YTL 60 million and a loan guarantee volume of YTL 480 million was provided from this fund.
The number of Technology Development Zones has reached 26 and 560 SMEs are currently conducting R&D activities in these zones.
In addition, 11 Technology Development Centers (TEKMER) were put into service to enable enterprises to benefit from the science and technology infrastructure of universities and public and private research institutions and to strengthen industry-university cooperation.
The Justice and Development Party sees tradesmen and craftsmen and SMEs as the most important dynamic for our country to reach the level of contemporary civilization and to open up to the world with self-confidence.
We are determined to continue the services we have provided to these groups and to add new dimensions to this support.
We will develop institutional structures in line with the new definition of SMEs based on contemporary standards.
In this context, we will reorganize the administrative structure of institutions and organizations involved in the support of SMEs, increase cooperation and ensure that SMEs receive effective and rapid service and support.
We are determined to give new vitality to the venture capital model, which supports our traditional entrepreneurial power with modern mechanisms.
We will create YTL 1.5 billion of venture capital through the Venture Capital Funds, the infrastructure of which we have established, to enable newly established and developing information and technology-based SMEs to meet their capital needs from sources outside the banking system.
We will ensure that the facilities such as manpower and laboratories of our public institutions, especially our universities, are made available to SMEs.
We will carry out information, guidance and awareness-raising activities for SMEs and support their needs such as training, consultancy, laboratory services, design, product development and patenting.
We will provide relocation support for SMEs to move to their workplaces in small industrial estates and organized industrial zones, the construction of which has been completed, in order to ensure healthy working conditions. The
number of exporting SMEs has now reached 45,000, and
support will be provided to increase the export volume of enterprises.
To this end, we aim to provide at least USD 1 billion in export credits with "0" interest every year.
In addition, small exporting enterprises will be encouraged to employ university graduates.
In order to meet the qualified personnel needs of SMEs and to encourage them to register, employment loans with "0" interest will continue to be provided every year.
Joint investments of SMEs, whose competitiveness decreases due to their inability to follow modern technology, will be supported within the framework of the clustering approach, and
OIZ administrations will be ensured to play an important role in clustering.
Loan interest support will be provided to SMEs that will come together within the scope of clustering.
The number of SMEs engaged in R&D activities will be increased by providing investment loan interest support to Technology Development Zones.
Credit guarantee and venture capital system will be developed to facilitate SMEs' access to financing resources.
The collateral problem of SMEs will be overcome by increasing the power of credit guarantee funds.
The collateral volume of credit guarantee funds will be increased to YTL 5 billion.
In addition, the Credit Guarantee Fund will open branches at the regional level to provide services at the closest point to beneficiaries.
Patent Support Program, R&D Investment Support Program, R&D Products Marketing and Support Program based on a new and innovative approach will be put into practice.
Projects and mechanisms that are accepted by all parties, owned by tradesmen and craftsmen themselves under the leadership of various sub-professional organizations and based on a rational business development plan will be supported.
Special support programs will be implemented for the mergers or joint ventures of our small tradesmen and craftsmen operating in many fields from production to marketing, from trade to tourism.
In this context, support will be provided in areas such as space allocation, state-supported credit facilities, new technology, management consultancy and training.
After the 2001 crisis, significant progress has been made in the efforts carried out under the name of "Anatolian Approach" in order to bring SMEs with payment difficulties into the economy and thus increase employment.
A law we enacted aims to restructure the loan debts of these enterprises.
In addition, SMEs using this facility are provided with tax exemptions, deferment of unpaid tax, insurance, electricity, natural gas, water and telephone debts.
Making Traditional Sectors Competitive
In our labor-intensive sectors such as garment, textile, leather, food, stone and soil based industry, forestry products and furniture, which are defined as traditional sectors, we feel the competition of countries with cheap labor power such as China and India more intensely.
In order for our traditional sectors to adapt to new conditions and increase their competitiveness during the AK Party government period, in order to reduce costs in the processes of enterprises from raw material procurement to marketing; Reduced electricity prices,
improved the maturity and interest rates of EXlMBANK loans, provided
support for branding, participation in foreign fairs and opening stores, reduced
VAT on textile, apparel, leather and food products from 18% to 8%,
continued investments in Organized Leather Industrial Zones to ensure that companies in the leather processing industry operate in modern facilities and move to regions with treatment facilities.
In addition, in line with the improvement in macroeconomic balances, interest rates and maturity spreads fell sharply, the
volume of credit extended to the private sector increased,
corporate tax was reduced from 33% to 20%, the top bracket of income tax from 45% to 35%, and the unemployment insurance premium from 7% to 4%.
With the equalization of the lower limit of the minimum wage with the minimum wage, the virtual minimum wage practice was ended.
This corresponds to a 7.7 percentage point reduction in the employer premium.
Payment facilities were introduced for tax and premium debts left over from the crisis periods.
In addition to the above, the AK Party government will continue to implement policies that support the transformation of our traditional sectors in the period ahead.
We will expand branding efforts to all traditional sectors.
We will create locomotive brands by increasing the resources allocated for this area.
Simultaneously with branding efforts, we will increase the competitiveness of our companies operating in these sectors by bringing all their capabilities, from technical infrastructure to human resources, governance systems, brand management and marketing, to international standards.
In an environment of intense competition, the concentration of firms operating in the same sector in a certain region enables them to produce at lower costs
and increases their competitiveness.
This structuring, which we call clustering, has naturally formed in some of our provinces (such as the carpet sector in Gaziantep, the automotive sub-industry in Konya).
In order to increase the competitiveness of our traditional sectors, in the new period, we will encourage the organization of naturally formed SME clusters in our country into sectoral clusters by establishing clustering policies.
In this framework; Consultancy Centers where consultancy support will be provided to SME clusters,
Coordination Centers for the coordination of all activities within the cluster,
R&D and Training centers for cluster member SMEs to meet their R&D and laboratory needs and to develop their human resources,
Marketing, Distribution and Supply Centers for joint purchasing and marketing organizations,
We will ensure the establishment of Industrial and Fashion Design Offices to create and sustain common brands.
We will continue to increase support for the promotion and marketing of our traditional export products abroad.
To enable companies operating in traditional sectors to closely follow the developments in the world within a professional management approach,
develop marketing and promotion strategies
and support the training programs they will organize in order to increase their productivity in production.
Considering that delivery time is an important factor in today's competitive conditions, we will improve the logistics infrastructure to utilize the advantage of our country's geographical proximity to important markets.
In the coming period, we will encourage food businesses to produce safe food.
We will identify the investments they need to meet their technological and other infrastructure needs and establish sectoral programs to realize them.
In the export of food products, we will support the entry of high value-added products for final consumption into new markets.
All of these transformation projects mean new jobs, new employment, employment, production, prosperity and happiness for the people of our country.
Regional Development and Spatial Marketing
The AK Party government is to improve our national unity, solidarity and solidarity,
Reducing inter-regional development disparities by spreading development opportunities throughout the country
and will implement an integrated regional development policy to ensure economic and social cohesion throughout the country.
A regional development strategy fully in line with national development plans and strategies will be prepared.
With this strategy and the regional development plans to be prepared in line with it, the competitive advantages of all our regions, especially the less developed regions, at national and international level will be identified,
their unused or underutilized potentials will be mobilized and development moves will be strengthened and expanded throughout the country.
The increase in employment, production and income achieved in this way will first of all accelerate local and regional development,
reduce inter-regional development disparities, and in
the long run maximize the contribution of all regions to our overall national development.
To positively influence migration dynamics,
Reducing development disparities between and within regions,
To improve our competitiveness by spreading the production culture throughout the country
"development agencies" will be established at provincial/regional level in order to increase social welfare and spread it to the grassroots.
Development agencies, with their specially created resources, mobilize development potentials, especially human and social capital,
increasing production, employment and income,
facilitating the investment climate
and support development projects that make them attractive through grants.
Research and development capacities of universities and vocational and technical schools will be strengthened according to the areas of specialization identified in the development strategies of provinces and regions.
On the other hand, competitiveness in areas of spatial specialization will be enhanced through the implementation of state aids tailored to the specific characteristics of the regions.
Spatial Planning Hierarchy
Spatial planning services, which lack a long-term development perspective, are disorganized and slow, will be restructured.
Starting with our national development plan, the planning hierarchy and the responsibilities and functions of relevant institutions will be clearly defined.
Approaches that address the settlement, industry, tourism, agriculture, forestry and conservation areas of the entire country as a whole, particularly metropolises, centers of attraction with high development potential and their surroundings, will be adopted.
It will be aimed to ensure that the plans prepared have adequate explanations and standards, especially those that define the physical development and construction conditions of cities in great detail.
On the one hand, while plans will be completed rapidly, on the other hand, it will be essential to reduce bureaucracy in procedures such as permits, licenses and inspections in the field of zoning and construction, and the
necessary infrastructure will be established to provide such services primarily from the local level and through a single interlocutor with the joint organization and cooperation of the relevant central and local institutions.
zoning and construction legislation will be revised and improved according to contemporary standards and needs.
Modern information and communication technologies will be utilized at the highest level in the monitoring and supervision of planning, zoning and construction.
CITIZEN AND RESULT-ORIENTED MANAGEMENT
An Administration that Solves Problems, Not Creates Problems.
The Justice and Development Party is based on trust in the relations between citizens and the state
and considers nurturing this mutual trust as the primary duty of public administration.
The governance approach of our party, which acts on the principle of "the state exists to serve the nation", is to involve citizens more effectively in decision-making processes, to
open public transactions more to the knowledge and control of citizens
, and to ensure a transparent administration that is accountable.
Not to fall behind the race between countries in a world where competition is intensifying,
To make the management effective on the basis of production and quality in order to reach the level of "contemporary civilization"
and our main priority is to provide more friendly, effective and quality services to our citizens.
Good Governance
Today, governments that are able to manage information, design the future without getting bogged down in daily tasks, produce better quality and effective services with less expenditure, and direct their resources to strategic areas are successful and
increase the general welfare of the society and the competitiveness of the economy.
The AK Party considers "good governance" in the public sector as a necessary condition of modern management for sustainable development.
The basic concepts of "good governance" based on solution generation include transparency, participation, accountability, predictability and quality.
During the AK Party's rule, very important initiatives have been taken from a rigid and closed bureaucracy to a "transparent" administration that is sensitive to new needs and demands and interacts with its people:
"Law on Access to Information" was enacted.
Thanks to the law, citizens can easily access a wide range of state information
and conduct public scrutiny.
Collecting and publishing the information needed by the entire public administration from a single source and in a more systematic manner,
'Turkish Statistical Institute' was restructured in order to produce internationally comparable information.
All laws, by-laws, regulations and decisions of the Council of Ministers in force have been classified and made available to the public in an up-to-date web-based environment.
The AK Party sees increased participation as essential both for good governance and for building a climate of social trust.
In order to ensure participation under the AK Party rule, representatives of relevant actors took part in the process of preparing legislation in the central administration,
the establishment of city councils in local governments
For good governance to be realized, public administrations must be auditable and accountable.
The AK Party has initiated the necessary process to implement modern management styles such as strategic management, performance management and auditing in order to effectively oversee all institutions and hold all employees, especially top managers, to account.
Regulations made for this purpose have made modern management practices such as 'internal audit' and 'Strategy Development Departments' compulsory.
This increases the auditability of public administration by setting goals, targets and performance measures for institutions and employees.
Our Party considers facilitating the lives of the people and improving the quality of life in peace, security and prosperity as the main purpose of public administration.
As a requirement of the rule of law, it recognizes that there can be no discrimination among the beneficiaries of public services and that everyone is equal before the laws and rules.
In the establishment and functioning of public administration, the integrity of the administration is essential
, and therefore believes that central and local governments will complement and strengthen each other.
- It is essential to bring public services to the people.
Local and communal services shall be provided in the closest place to the beneficiaries of these services and by the most appropriate institutions.
We have full confidence in our nation.
Public services are based on 'trust in declaration, simplification and not requesting duplicate information'.
The Justice and Development Party aims to fully realize the principles of good governance in our country.
In this way, it sees making public administration effective and efficient as a shared responsibility towards future generations.
Effective Central Administration
Despite all our efforts, public administration in Turkey has not yet overcome its over-centralized and cumbersome structure.
This is the most important reason why public administration is inefficient and costly.
Due to the excessive and routine workload brought about by the effort to solve all problems from the center, the central administration is unable to fully exercise its supervision and guidance over local governments and other institutions.
From the day it came to power, the Justice and Development Party has been working to eliminate disorganization in the administration,
prevent excessive centralization
and has realized very important regulations and practices in order to provide better service to our citizens.
First of all, he showed the importance he attached to this issue by reducing the number of ministries from 36 to 23 even before the government was formed.
In order to increase effectiveness and efficiency in public administration, the units that have lost their function, are costly or perform the same function have been reviewed and downsizing, merging or liquidation strategies have started to be implemented.
Within this framework; 'General Directorate of Land Office' and 'General Directorate of Rural Services' were closed down.
Hospitals and schools under different ministries were also brought under a "single roof".
Considering the fundamental problems of our public administration system, a more effective audit system was introduced with the 'Public Financial Management and Control Law' enacted in 2003 in parallel with the developments in the world.
Accordingly: All public institutions started to prepare strategic plans and performance-based budgets based on these plans.
Necessary arrangements were made to ensure Treasury Unity
and public revenues, expenditures and borrowing were disciplined.
Internal and external audits were separated from each other, and
it was envisaged that external audits by the Court of Accounts would be conducted in accordance with international auditing standards.
Public accounts and financial statistics started to be prepared according to international standards.
In the new period of the AK Party government; in line with the trends of the modern world and the needs of our country, the role of the central administration will be limited to its basic and fundamental duties, and its
planning and supervision capacity will be increased.
The following principles and fundamentals will be taken into consideration while performing the duties of the central administration: A result-oriented, rather than expenditure-oriented, management approach will be taken root.
The central administration will set general principles and policies, targets and standards at the national level, and will
personally carry out services of appropriate scale and quality, while
supervising the execution of local services by local governments in accordance with the law and the standards set.
Efforts to strengthen coordination in economic management will continue.
Importance will be given to the provincial organizations to work effectively and in coordination within the Governorate.
It will be mandatory for institutions to use a portion of their budgets for training.
Objective measures will be further strengthened in the recruitment and promotion of personnel needed for public employment.
Arrangements will be made to ensure wage justice and differences between institutions will be made in accordance with the measures of equity.
Ombudsman arrangements will be finalized and
used effectively at central and local levels.
Efficient and Productive Local Governments
Under the AK Party government, municipalities and special provincial administrations have been reconsidered in accordance with the principle of "decentralization" set out in our Constitution and many fundamental problems have been solved.
The Law on Municipalities, Law on Metropolitan Municipalities, Law on Special Provincial Administrations were renewed
and theLaw on Local Administration Unions was enacted.
According to the regulations made by these laws: Theminimum population required to become a municipality was raised from 2000 to 5000
and all local common services were transferred to local governments.
Guardianship practices over local governments were reorganized according to contemporary norms.
Local government assemblies were strengthened by special provincial administrations gaining the right to elect the chairman of the provincial general assembly.
The distribution of duties and authorities between metropolitan and first level municipalities has been redefined, aiming to provide services in harmony at the urban scale.
II special administrations and municipalities with a population over 50 thousand are required to make strategic plans.
Participation of civil society representatives, mukhtars, representatives of universities and professional chambers, and representation of political party groups in local government assemblies and specialized commissions has been ensured.
In addition, an audit commission has been established in each local government to audit the accounts and transactions of the local government for the previous year.
II, town municipalities that are closer than 5 km to a district or a municipality with a population of more than 50,000 were abolished and incorporated into the other municipality, if required by zoning and infrastructure services. The
borders of Istanbul and Izmit Municipalities were integrated with the provincial borders,
enabling the development of large cities with better zoning and more planned infrastructure.
Municipalities have been given the duty and authority to rebuild, restore, preserve and utilize worn out parts of the city and worn out historical and cultural immovables.
As a result of these reforms, our municipalities and special administrations have been able to meet the needs of our citizens.
Citizens can now solve a significant part of their problems on the spot.
Our big cities have started to compete with world cities in many areas.
In line with the authorizations in local governments, changes have been made in the central administration and harmonization has been ensured.
The best example of this is that with the closure of the General Directorate of Village Services, a comprehensive reconstruction work has been initiated in our villages.
Within the scope of the Köydeş Project led by the district governors, rural infrastructure consisting of drinking water, roads and sewerage is about to be completed in all villages in the country.
Efforts to transfer some services, which are of the nature of local and common services and which are being carried out by the central administration, to local administrations will also be continued.
Within a program-based approach, the experience gained from the activities of KÖYDEŞ and BELDES will be transformed into more advanced stages based on the priorities that will come to the fore in the coming period.
Improving the service capacity of our local administrations consisting of Special Provincial Administrations, Municipalities and Villages
and strengthening financing opportunities are our main priorities for the coming period.
The Draft Law reorganizing the division of resources between central and local governments will be enacted.
Local governments exercise all these powers, duties and responsibilities within the unitary structure,
integrity of the administration,
judicial review
and public scrutiny.
Improving Public Ethics and Combating Corruption
Corruption is a fundamental problem that damages the relationship of trust between citizens and the state, leads to major economic crises through the unjust usurpation of public resources and imposes heavy costs on our country for years.
Our Party is uncompromising against corruption and determined to block all channels that lead to corruption.
The Justice and Development Party has developed and resolutely implemented comprehensive strategies in this area, based on the findings and proposals of the Parliamentary Corruption Investigation Commission:
It has signed anti-corruption conventions with international organizations such as the Council of Europe, the OECD and the United Nations,
and has begun to cooperate to combat corruption.
In accordance with the Private Law Convention against Corruption1 , Turkey has become a member of the Governments Against Corruption (GRECÖ)1 .
The necessary legal infrastructure was prepared to determine the ethical (moral) rules and standards to be followed by public officials and the
"Ethics Committee for Public Officials" was established to oversee the implementation. The
'Banking Law' was amended to accelerate the collection from failed banks, and
the restructured SDIF collected approximately 12 billion dollars from banks that exploited the labor and sweat of hundreds of thousands of people.
The new 'Turkish Penal Code' introduces regulations to prevent corruption
and takes special measures to prevent money laundering.
With the inspection systems developed for petroleum distributors and dealers and the 'Marker' application, provisions such as heavy fines and imprisonment penalties, confiscation of goods, and revocation of licenses have been put into practice for those who sell and possess smuggled petroleum.
AK Party will continue to fight against corruption with determination and will
maintain its uncompromising political line against the abuse of public means and resources.
The image of our country in terms of corruption will be improved by expanding the scope and disclosure of the declaration of assets of public officials, abolishing the immunity and privileges of public officials and improving the personnel system.
and public trust in the public sector will be increased.
Raising public awareness about corruption,
strengthening public scrutiny,
e-government applications and reduction of bureaucracy in the public sector,
further enhancing transparency,
activation of the judiciary and justice system,
With the support of the media and civil society, our multidimensional struggle will continue with determination.
Less Bureaucracy, Smiling Government
Reducing bureaucratic procedures in services provided to citizens
and improving the quality of services is one of the main emphases of AK Party politics.
In our view, the fundamental purpose of public administration is to facilitate the full exercise of citizenship rights.
For this purpose, as well as eliminating 'legislative pollution' and facilitating bureaucratic procedures and processes
It is also of great importance that public officials exhibit a facilitating and friendly attitude to the citizens we are tasked with providing services to.
Reducing bureaucracy and red tape in areas such as health, education and social security services where the public demands services,
In the last five years, significant progress has been made in establishing a service approach that trusts and cares for people:
With the unification of hospitals, the distinction between the Pension Fund, SSK and Bağkur was abolished and everyone was able to benefit from every hospital.
It is now easy to buy medicines from any pharmacy.
Procedures for the issuance of Health Reports and Health Board Reports have been simplified and the formalities that were troublesome for patients and the elderly who had to take medication continuously have been removed.
The "Regulation on the Opening and Licensing of Workplaces" and the "Regulation on the Opening and Licensing of Private Education Institutions" were renewed.
With the "Simplification of Services Provided at Land Border Gates" project, significant simplifications have been introduced in the transactions of vehicles passing through customs, and
waiting times have been considerably shortened as import and export transactions have started to be carried out at domestic customs.
By establishing "One Step Service" offices in all Governorships and District Governorships, green card, 'Social Assistance and Solidarity Foundation' assistance, issuance of health certificates to military families, old age and disability pensions and issuance of certificates of need have been accelerated.
In the coming years, in order to make our citizens' relations with public administrations warmer and more satisfying, efforts will be made to improve the quality of services and to reduce bureaucratic procedures and paperwork.
and efforts to shorten the duration will continue.
The "One Step Service" approach will be implemented in other areas as well,
"One-Stop Offices" will be established especially for operation and facility establishment works, and services will be provided from a single location.
and will be executed more quickly.
The project to simplify and expedite the "Traffic Registration and Driver's License" procedures will be completed.
Thus, those who want to buy a car or a driver's license will be able to drive their car immediately after purchasing it, and
the license will be delivered to the driver at home shortly afterwards.
e-Transformation Turkey
One of the criteria of "contemporary civilization" of our age is the transition to e-Government and the completion of the necessary "e-transformation" for the rapid delivery of services.
In line with our country's "vision to transform into an information society", the AK Party government has implemented a comprehensive program with the e-Transformation Turkey Project in order to facilitate the lives of our people and to activate production processes.
In the last 5 years, e-government projects have been seriously emphasized, and
tax and insurance notifications, as well as population, land registry, court, passport, security, customs and license transactions have started to be submitted electronically.
With the completion of the 'MERNlS National Database', identity information was made available to many public and private institutions through the 'Identity Sharing System'.
Furthermore, the Address Based Population Registration System, which includes all citizenship information, is nearing completion.
The "e-consulate" application, which facilitates the citizenship procedures that our citizens abroad, numbering nearly 5 million, need to carry out at consulates, was put into practice.
The e-consulate program, which addresses the entire world from America to Europe, from Asia to Africa, today serves 4-5 million citizens 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.
In the coming period, it will be ensured that all institutions move their services to the electronic environment.
On the other hand, in a short period of time, the "One Card" project will be put into the service of our nation.
Thus, instead of carrying separate cards for each institution, our citizens will be able to carry out both tax and niifus' citizenship transactions with a single card,
will be able to benefit from both health and social security services,
will also be able to carry out transactions such as driver's license, registration, passport, etc.
Electronic signature, electronic correspondence, electronic work and document management system will be implemented as a standard for all central administrations.
To this end, common data and communication infrastructures, business processes redefined according to citizen needs, qualified human resources and organizational capacity necessary for the effective operation of e-Government will be established.
e-Transformation Turkey Project will be implemented rapidly in line with the determined road map and its benefits will be measured through citizen satisfaction.
The privacy of our citizens will be secured through legal regulations on the confidentiality of personal information.
IMPROVING QUALITY OF LIFE
To improve the quality of life of our people in our economically and socially rapidly developing and urbanizing country
and at a certain level, to make it widespread throughout the country will be the primary goal of the Justice and Development Party in the new period.
Our main goal is to take the necessary measures to meet the multidimensional needs of our people and the environment in which they live on the way to becoming a qualified and entrepreneurial society.
The AK Party, which advocates a people-oriented political understanding in every field, will resolutely implement concrete policies and programs towards this goal in cooperation with the public, civil society and private sector.
A vibrant culture, arts and sports scene, livable cities,
consumer protection, food safety,
Our efforts in areas that enhance quality of life, such as animal protection, plant health and a clean environment, will be pursued with determination.
Turkey will be a country of people who have a healthy and safe environment and are satisfied with their lives.
Raising Living Standards
In order to improve the living standards of our people and cities, the Justice and Development Party government continues its multifaceted efforts both in the central administration and in local governments.
In recent years, with program-based approaches such as KÖYDEŞ and BELDES, the basic needs of our people such as roads, water and sewerage have started to be met in every corner of our country.
Services that improve the quality of life have also been provided to people living in rural areas and the remotest regions.
The AK Party government has made significant progress towards the goal of full membership of the EU, which it has attached great importance to since its inception.
In fact, the main objective of this process is to improve the quality of life of our people in all areas and to provide them with living conditions at contemporary standards.
In the EU negotiation process, the AK Party government prepared the "Turkey's Program for Harmonization with the EU Acquis" for the period 2007-2013 and set the road map.
On the one hand, the implementation of this program will increase EU harmonization, and on
the other hand, the living standards of our people will be raised to the level they deserve.
Although the understanding we have set out under many other headings of this declaration and our policies for the coming period are also closely related to improving the quality of life of our people, the following issues will be prioritized:
In the AK Party's new era, raising the level of education with the understanding of lifelong education and developing basic skills in education,
Reorganization of working life,
effective and active fight against unemployment,
Improvement in the working conditions of all employees, especially the disabled,
Combating occupational diseases and accidents through regulations in the field of occupational health and safety,
Identification and certification of occupational standards,
Improving passenger safety in road transportation,
Improving the quality of postal services,
Supervision of standards in building materials,
Safe supply of detergents and cosmetics to the public,
Ensuring environmental compatibility of energy-consuming products at the design stage,
Achieving a more equitable distribution of income across segments and regions,
Extending health and social security services to all citizens,
Increasing women's participation in all areas of community life,
Institutionalization to help solve family problems,
Taking measures against crimes that may be committed on the Internet,
Creating a faster and more efficient structure in the judicial system,
Diversifying the network of social relations by increasing opportunities for volunteer organizations and participation in governance,
Improving the quality of drinking water in our villages and cities,
reduction of air pollution and noise,
improving local environmental factors by increasing green space, roads and transportation facilities,
It is aimed to reinforce a climate of trust in relations between all segments of society.
The AK Party will continue to develop strategies for the protection of the health, safety and economic interests of consumers, as well as for the effective implementation of regulations on the production of goods and services of a certain standard and quality.
In this field, we will resolutely continue our efforts to protect the rights of consumers through regulations on defective goods and services, credit cards, door-to-door sales, distance sales, including sales on the internet; package tours, timeshare vacation system; advertisements and announcements, labels, tariffs and price lists; and terms against consumers in standard contracts.
We will continue to take necessary measures to provide consumers with a higher level of protection against misleading and deceptive advertisements.
We will ensure the effective implementation of our regulations on consumer protection, food safety, sanitary conditions, combating animal diseases and plant health.
Environment and Livable Cities
The AK Party approaches the development process from a long-term and multidimensional perspective.
In the protection of the environment, the "right to live in a healthy and balanced environment" expressed in our Constitution forms the basis of our policies.
The user-polluter pays,
sustainable development,
public-private partnership,
raising environmental awareness
and participation are among our fundamental principles in this area.
The Justice and Development Party (AKP) has introduced very important legal regulations and actions on the environment:
The revised Turkish Penal Code has introduced criminal sanctions for environmental pollution and zoning pollution.
The Environmental Law, which was prepared to adapt to changing conditions and had been waiting in the Parliament since 1995, was put on the agenda and enacted.
Urban transformation laws have been enacted.
Within the EU harmonization process, a significant part of the missing secondary legislation has been completed.
Within the sustainable development approach, the necessary balance between the environment, competition and industrialization has been observed.
Bureaucracy was reduced in the Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) process to accelerate our investments.
Protecting our natural resources and passing them on to future generations is among our most fundamental duties.
Within the framework of this fundamental duty, in order to protect water resources against pollution, all industries and municipalities have been obliged to treat their wastewater under the 'Environmental Law'
and severe penal sanctions have been envisaged.
41 Organized Industrial Zones' wastewater facilities have been completed.
Under AK Party rule, modern, sanitary landfill systems for solid waste (garbage) were encouraged and supported instead of wild storage.
In this context, 31 integrated solid waste disposal facilities initiated through municipal unions are being completed.
In cities with air pollution, natural gas was first provided to prevent pollution.
By providing incentives for the use of clean fuel in cities, air pollution caused by heating has been prevented in our cities.
The use of clean fuel and well-maintained vehicles has been encouraged to prevent exhaust gas pollution, especially in big cities during the summer months.
The Ministry of Environment and Forestry has established a 24-hour air pollution monitoring network in all provinces.
Thus, the fight against air pollution can be carried out with more scientific data.
A similar monitoring network has been established to control marine pollution.
Currently, the coasts of our country are monitored from 104 points in terms of various pollution parameters.
The inspection capability and deterrence of authorized public institutions to prevent marine pollution has increased.
In order to transition from state forestry to national forestry in the field of forestry, Urban Forests were established in 56 provinces and new recreational areas were provided for our people living in urban environments.
The protection and expansion of forest areas, which is one of the most important measures against global climate change and erosion, has been among the priorities of the AK Party government.
Afforestation activities were accelerated and
while the average area afforested was 75,000 hectares per year before, it reached 400,000 hectares in our period.
Our country is among the countries in the world that have increased their forest areas.
A fundamental policy that the AK Party government has insisted on since the day it took office has been to prevent unplanned urbanization,
solve the slum problem and meet the housing needs of lower income groups.
To this end, the AK Party government has increased the number of urban environments with improved quality of life
and expanded them across the country.
Aware of the social and financial burdens brought about by unplanned and irregular urbanization, the AK Party is working hard to ensure that our people have healthy and safe housing and a clean environment.
Turkey is a country where quality of life is improved,
biodiversity is protected,
natural resources are managed with a sustainable development approach,
We aim to be a country that respects the right to live in a healthy and balanced environment.
In this framework, we will ensure the treatment of wastewater in cities with a population of over 50,000 and prevent untreated wastewater from being discharged into the sea,
Providing modern solid waste facilities to cities with a population over 50,000,
We will ensure the separation and recycling of domestic solid waste at source,
We will support systems and technologies suitable for the country's conditions in the construction, maintenance and operation of facilities for environmental protection such as water, wastewater, solid waste and hazardous waste,
We will ensure that our citizens living in cities have access to services in basic areas such as zoning, housing, infrastructure, transportation, trade, education, health, social services, entertainment, culture and sports at the highest standards, in the fastest, most comfortable and easiest way.
We will increase the average of afforestation, erosion control and improvement efforts to 500,000 hectares
and contribute to the creation of more livable cities by accelerating green belt forestry around our cities.
We will continue to provide multifaceted support to forest villagers and increase
the resources transferred from forest revenues to villagers to higher levels.
An informed society is the key to environmental success.
With the support of our consumers and civil society organizations, it will prevent pollution before it occurs,
We will focus on approaches that promote methods such as resource reuse.
We will effectively monitor all our environmental assets, especially the air we breathe and the water we drink, in cooperation with the public and civil society.
We will continue measures to protect our biodiversity, which is one of our significant advantages compared to European countries, and we
will expand Eco-tourism and Eco-farming practices so that our people can benefit more from these riches.
Local governments have a focal role in the formation of an integrated, conscious, quality environment and city.
We will strengthen our local governments technically and financially to transform our cities into more livable places and overcome environmental problems.
With the active participation of local governments, we will accelerate environmental plans
and rapidly complete these plans to cover all our provinces.
We will encourage joint projects and activities within the framework of local administration service unions to ensure cost efficiency and rationality in operation.
In the environmental sector, particularly in water and sewerage management, we will increase the participation of the private sector as well as the public sector to reduce costs and improve quality.
With the new Environmental Law, we have introduced an environmental understanding at modern standards into our law, and
we will strengthen this general framework with secondary regulations, institutional capacity building activities and new financing models.
With an environmentally friendly approach, we will establish environmental management systems that will ensure economic development and the fair utilization of natural resources by all, taking into account the needs of future generations.
AK Party government became a party to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in May 2004 and submitted its 1st National Communication Report at the beginning of 2007 and
made the necessary arrangements for energy efficiency and renewable energy.
In this context, we will continue to cooperate internationally to mitigate the negative impacts of climate change and global warming.
We will resolutely continue the sectoral work on global warming that has already been initiated in energy, transportation, agriculture and industry.
Housing Mobilization
With the planned urbanization and housing offensive launched in 2003 and in cooperation with local governments, our government has initiated a work of unprecedented speed and scope in the history of our Republic.
The AK Party has pioneered urban transformation through projects carried out by the Housing Development Administration (TOKI).
and contributed to the formation of modern cities all over the country.
As a requirement of our policy of strengthening the family and social structure, we launched a housing mobilization to ensure that our people have better quality housing with affordable payment terms.
We offered our citizens the opportunity to own a house like paying rent with maturities of 10, 15, 20 years.
To date, the AK Party government has started construction of a total of 280,000 houses.
Approximately 140,000 of these have been completed with social facilities and landscaping.
In the coming period, our goal is to increase the total number of completed housing units to 500,000.
With these works, not only housing was produced for low-income citizens, but also new cities were built with all their social facilities.
In this way, we produce exemplary environments that also affect their surroundings in the direction of creating modern and livable urban environments.
In addition to the houses built within this scope, the construction of 273 schools, 238 commercial centers, 201 mosques, 7 hospitals, 56 health centers, 51 gymnasiums and 36 libraries has started.
Sport
Sport is one of the indispensable elements of social life, which has a dynamic structure with its own rules, language and ethics.
The AK Party sees sports as a universal phenomenon that makes us look at life from the perspective of competition, that makes us taste the phenomenon of winning, and that teaches us how to deal with the feeling of losing.
Sports activities teach the principles of obeying rules, unity, solidarity, cooperation and sharing.
It also contributes to the development of the individual's personal characteristics and abilities.
Spreading sports to the grassroots,
encouraging masses to engage in lifelong sports,
protecting young people from harmful habits,
raising champion athletes and
building facilities for them have been our indispensable goals.
Acting on the principle of "The State takes measures to improve the physical and mental health of Turkish citizens of all ages and encourages the spread of sports to the masses", AK Party has taken great steps in this field:
Important legal arrangements were made in order to provide infrastructure and financial resources to ensure the spread of sports, and
54 sports federations were granted autonomy within this framework.
With the regulations on incentives and support for sports, an important resource was created to be used in all sports investments, especially for autonomous federations and sports clubs.
This resource, including league and name sponsorship, reached 700 Million YTL1 in 3 years.
The Law on Combating Violence in Sports was enacted and the infrastructure for the measures envisaged by international organizations was established.
Thus, it will be ensured that young people are trained to act in accordance with the rules of courtesy and that sports are spread in an environment of "Love, Friendship and Peace".
The process of spreading sports to the grassroots was accelerated. The
number of licensed athletes increased from 478,000 in 2002 to 1,800,000, the number of coaches from 20,470 to 31,963, and the
number of clubs from 6,122 to 7,665.
In cooperation with universities, approximately 800,000 young people were screened in primary schools as part of the project to prepare our youth for the Olympics, and
those who were deemed talented in the tests were recruited to our sport.
In the East and Southeast, hundreds of thousands of young people were introduced to sports through the "Meet Sports Project".
There have been campaigns to fight drugs and harmful habits.
As a result of these German measures, Turkey ranked 42nd among 200 countries with a total of 5 medals at the Sydney Olympics in 2000, and rose to 21st place among 202 countries with 10 medals at the 2004 Athens Olympics.
In the 2005 Mediterranean Games and the University Games, the greatest successes of our history were achieved in these fields.
Our National Teams, clubs and athletes have shown outstanding success in World and European Championships.
Thanks to our effectiveness in foreign policy and our success in sports, many of our sportsmen have started to take part in international sports federations.
During the AK Party's rule, Turkey has been one of the best promoters of itself through international sports events, including
the Champions League Final in Istanbul, one leg of the MP-Motorcycle World Championships from 2005 onwards, and more importantly Formula-l races and the 2005 University Games in Izmir.
In addition, World and European Championships in many branches have been successfully organized in our country.
Thus, Turkey, which has developed its organizational capacity and gained the trust of the federations, has increasingly undertaken the hosting of many international organizations.
These include the 2009 UEFA Cup Final, the 2010 World Basketball Championship, the 2011 European Youth Games and the 2011 Universities Winter Games.
We are also a candidate country for the World Swimming, World Athletics and World Volleyball Championships, as well as the 2013 Mediterranean Games and the 2013 Youth Winter Games.
We will make every effort to host the European Football Championship and the World Cup and to organize the Olympics in our country.
Opening sports facilities to public service 24 hours a day, AK Party not only builds modern stadiums and halls where international organizations can be held, but also
equips the whole of Turkey with facilities that will make it a sports country in cooperation with local governments.
In the new term of government, AK Party will ensure that sports facilities are built in all settlements with a population over 5 thousand,
Establishment of "Youth Centers" in all settlements with a population over 20 thousand,
to develop the talents of youth in this way,
Developing capacities to produce projects
and their contribution to governance,
Increasing the number of Youth Camps
and acceleration of youth exchange programs with foreign countries,
Providing incentives and support to our young people doing sports within the scope of preparing athletes for the Olympics
and aims to train 10 million licensed athletes in 10 years.
CULTURE AND ART
Culture is the most important identity element of a society's fundamental values manifested in time and space.
Works of culture and art, which reflect a society's vision of civilization, also form the basis of social memory.
AK Party believes that in our globalizing world, cultural and artistic values are one of the cornerstones of a strong and self-confident society.
Our primary goal is to carry Turkish culture and arts to universal platforms while preserving its national identity.
Considering Turkey's local and national cultural values as part of the universal cultural heritage, our government is committed to keeping the works of Turkish culture, art and civilization alive,
has made great strides in the field of conservation and promotion.
The cultural and artistic works of the Republic of Turkey, which has created the most distinguished synthesis of our civilization by feeding from different cultural and civilizational basins in history, are of great importance not only for the people living on Anatolian lands, but also for the heritage of humanity.
The AK Party's cultural policy aims to keep our historical, cultural and artistic monuments in Turkey and abroad alive in continuity and change.
The AK Party does not see culture as a frozen, uniform and unchanging field.
Cultures, like the societies they represent, are dynamic.
In order to respond to changing needs, culture and arts must be in a dynamic continuity.
From the interior of Central Asia to the Balkans and North Africa, Turkish culture has gone through different phases throughout its long history, fed from different sources and adapted to new conditions, enabling new syntheses to emerge.
At the same time, Turkish culture has preserved its fundamental identity
and has become one of the most distinguished members of the world cultural heritage.
Our government has undertaken major projects to preserve and promote this rich and dynamic cultural, artistic and civilizational heritage of Turkey and
has made great strides in the infrastructure necessary for Turkish culture to reach a level where it can compete with world cultures.
Our Party sees the role of the state in the field of culture as creating the conditions for a rich and competitive cultural life and protecting the cultural heritage.
For culture to become a vital and powerful social factor, it must flourish and spread in a free environment.
Acting with this perspective, our government has encouraged the private sector, non-governmental organizations and people of culture and arts to play an active role in the field of culture
and pioneered many new initiatives in this field. In
the second term of our government, we will continue our efforts to increase the effectiveness of the private sector in the field of cultural and artistic activities.
One of the important pillars of the AK Party's cultural policies is the preservation of our common historical and cultural assets in our cultural and civilizational geography.
Our Party, which has a national and global vision in the field of culture at the same time, has carried out meticulous work on three continents for the protection, restoration and promotion of historical and cultural monuments outside Turkey
and has realized projects to secure our common historical heritage.
Within this framework, under the leadership of TlKA; TheOrkhon Monuments in Mongolia have been taken under protection,
a road has been built and the construction of a museum has begun,
Sultan Sencer's mausoleum in Merv, Turkmenistan has been restored, the
Ahmet Yesevi Complex in Kazakhstan has been repaired, and
Mustafa Pasha Mosque, the work of Mimar Sinan in Sktip, is being restored, The
Sultan Murad tomb in Kosovo was built, the
Mostar, Drina and Konic bridges in Bosnia were repaired, and
In addition, Turkish monuments in countries such as Bulgaria, Crimea, Palestine, Syria, Lebanon and Algeria, which are our historical geography, were restored.
and taken under protection.
In all these activities, the goal of our government is to keep our culture, art and civilizational heritage alive as a part of universal culture
and to introduce it to the world.
Today, Turkey has entered a new era in cultural studies as in many other fields.
Our country contributes significantly to the cultural diversity of the world with its unique richness in these lands where the richest cultural heritage of the world is produced and kept alive.
During the AK Party period, modern legislative works were carried out for our country's cultural assets belonging to different civilizations, and a
great mobilization was launched by allocating new resources to this field.
Within this framework, the Ministry of Culture and Tourism and the General Directorate of Foundations have completed the restoration, project and implementation of more than 3000 works.
Our country is one of the richest archaeological sites in the world.
Anatolian geography, which is the meeting point of different cultures and civilizations, continues to be the center of attention of world scientists.
The AK Party has made it a priority to introduce this unique aspect of Turkey to the world.
Between 2002 and 2006, 1,737 archaeological excavations and researches were carried out throughout Turkey,
excavation grants were increased to encourage these studies, and
as part of our policy of preserving and exhibiting historical artifacts, dozens of museums, which were previously closed between 2002 and 2006, were put into service after maintenance-repair and display-arrangement works were completed.
The most valuable artifacts of a nation's cultural and civilizational heritage and social memory are written culture.
With its manuscript libraries and archives, Turkey is the most important resource center for historical research in Europe, the Balkans and the Middle East.
Within this framework, during our government period, digital images of manuscripts were collected in a single center.
The Internet Access to Manuscripts Project, which aims to make manuscripts available to researchers via the Internet, was finalized.
Within the scope of the Digitalization of Manuscripts Project, 137,000 works were digitized.
In this context, the Project for the Renovation of the Stileymaniye Library Restoration and Research Center and the Establishment of an Education Unit is ongoing.
In addition, the Library Automation Program Project, the Internet Access Centers Project, and the Integrated E-Library System Project, which aims to make it possible to query the resources in all libraries in the country from a single point, were implemented.
The Home Delivery Book Project and the Talking Bookshelf Project for visually impaired citizens have been put into practice in order to enable home-bound sick, elderly or disabled citizens who cannot benefit from library services to benefit from library materials in their homes.
The "E-Book" Project, which aims to make the publications of the Ministry of Culture and Tourism reach more readers via the internet, has already started to yield successful results.
As a result of these new publishing policies, the number of printed books increased from 16,426 in 2002 to 32,750 by the end of 2006.
Thus, great strides have been made in the field of accessibility to information resources, which is one of the important indicators of quality of life.
The AK Party will continue its comprehensive cultural policies to meet the need for information, which is the most important indicator of dynamic and developing societies, through effective and modern methods.
Our handicrafts, which are the highest expression of the Anatolian people's understanding of art and aesthetics, are also a reflection of our philosophy of life based on the integrity of art-life.
Hundreds of courses were organized between 2003 and 2007 within the framework of the "Non-formal Cultural Education Activities Plan" in order to keep our handicrafts, which represent a great richness, alive, promote them and ensure that they are taught in accordance with the original and passed on to future generations,
Tens of thousands of our citizens participated in these courses and took an active role in the project of keeping our traditional handicrafts alive and popularizing them.
During the AK Party rule, Turkish cinema made great strides and expansions, and
a new cinematic language combining local and universal tones began to emerge.
Our Government, which supports the strengthening and dissemination of visual arts as a policy, has supported nearly 700 cinema, documentary, animation, script projects and festivals throughout its term in power.
The achievements of Turkish cinema quickly moved to international platforms
and many of the films we supported during this period received awards in international competitions.
Studies in the field of fine arts were brought to the public agenda within the framework of a new understanding during the period of our Government
and great successes were achieved in theater, opera, ballet and other fine arts branches.
Numerous events were organized within the scope of the "Art Everywhere" project, which was launched to popularize art.
Promoting Turkey's rich cultural heritage all over the world is one of the priorities of our Party.
The year 2007, declared by UNESCO as the Year of Mevlana, was celebrated with dozens of activities in Turkey and abroad, and
the message of friendship, brotherhood and tolerance that Hz. Mevlana gave to humanity was carried to various parts of the world from Europe to Asia, from the Balkans to America.
In 2005, the Turkish Culture, Arts and Literature Outreach Project (TEDA) was launched to promote contemporary Turkish intellectual life and literature around the world.
Within the framework of this project, the works of Turkish thinkers and literary figures were translated and published in 25 different languages.
The AK Party will continue to work intensively in this field in the second term of its government.
One of the important measures of development in the world is the extent to which people's intellectual demands can be met.
In parallel with the increasing urbanization of the population, the AK Party's efforts to increase the interest in culture and to respond to the demands of the people in the best way possible will continue with the same determination and sensitivity.
Our aim is to present the accumulation of Turkish culture, art and civilization to the Turkish and world public with the strength and self-confidence we derive from our tradition and by making use of contemporary opportunities.
Against the danger of cultural degeneration, new programs and projects will be implemented to ensure that all our citizens, men and women, old and young, villagers and urbanites, public employees and private business owners, become actors who understand, participate, support and produce culture and arts, rather than unconscious consumers.
To this end, special emphasis will be placed on localization and civilianization of cultural services in terms of effectiveness, efficiency and citizen ownership.
Two main goals have been set for our culture and arts policies in the coming period.
The first is the expansion of cultural and artistic activities to the entire geography of Turkey.
In this framework, the AK Party will implement the project of "A Cultural Center in Every Town", the preparations for which have been completed,
and will spread the richness of Turkish culture and art throughout the country without discriminating between branches of culture and art.
Cultural Center projects will be commissioned by Turkey's expert architects according to regions, land scales and population needs, and culture and art centers that respond to the demands of the society in the best way will be established.
In addition to the 18 cultural centers opened since 2003, we will equip the country with social life centers that will meet this need.
The AK Party's second important goal is to mobilize the private sector in the field of culture and arts
and to ensure that it takes an active role and responsibility in the planning, support and implementation of culture and arts activities.
Our party, which sees the state as an authority that protects and supports the development of culture and art rather than producing it, has solved the legal infrastructure problem with the "Cultural Entrepreneurship Law" and
enabled the private sector and individuals to become autonomous and entrepreneurial parties in the field of culture and arts.
in our second term, our work in this field will continue and support for private cultural institutions will be increased.
In this context, we will ensure that private theaters, local choirs and local ensembles in Turkey are supported, especially to solve venue problems.
Our primary goal will be to accelerate the activities that will ensure easy access to information at the highest level.
Completion of e-library studies,
Sustaining the TEDA project on a larger scale and making it accessible to the widest circles abroad
and to increase participation in book fairs.
In the coming period, we will work to create the infrastructure of the plateaus and studios needed by the movie industry and to make our country an attractive place for film production.
As in other branches of art, steps will be taken to enable Turkish cinema to compete with world cinema
and the promotion of original cinematic works in international competitions and platforms will be encouraged.
Under the AK Party government, Istanbul was declared the 2010 European Capital of Culture
and a special law was prepared for this purpose.
In the coming period, multifaceted efforts will continue for this special position of Istanbul.
This project, which is in line with the European Union accession process, will contribute greatly to the promotion of Istanbul as a world city as well as our cultural values on international platforms.
In the second term of the AK Party government, the identification, registration and restoration of historical monuments will continue.
Considering our cultural artifacts not as a dead heap but as a historical reference that sheds light on our today and tomorrow, the AK Party will continue to implement new projects for the protection and preservation of priceless foundation artifacts.
In this framework, the Foundation Silk Road Project will be launched
and restoration of historical monuments along the Silk Road route will be completed.
With this project, the inns and caravanserais on the Silk Road will be transformed into tourism centers by providing functions such as hotels, restaurants, recreation facilities and souvenir sales centers.
The aim of our Party's culture and arts policy is to transform Turkey into a country that can compete with the cultures of the world.
Drawing strength from its vast historical experience and great cultural heritage, Turkey will be one of the most respected countries in the world in terms of living standards and quality of life in the 21st century.
INCREASING COMPETITIVENESS
The rapid change in the world and the transformation into an information society pose some threats as well as important opportunities.
Perceiving the realities of the world we live in and the dynamics of change correctly and developing policies in line with these dynamics without delay is a prerequisite for success.
The AK Party government has taken important steps to equip our people with the qualifications required by this new environment.
In order to increase our competitiveness and have more say in the international arena, we need to improve our workforce qualifications.
and we will continue to build a strong communication infrastructure in the coming period.
In a world that has shifted from arm power to brain power, we will continue our breakthroughs in the field of science, technology and innovation, which have become the basic element of achieving competitive advantage.
We will accelerate our basic infrastructure investments so as not to create bottlenecks in our rapid growth process.
We will ensure a more competitive cost structure in key areas such as transportation, communication and energy by bringing in the financing and management approach of the private sector.
In cooperation with the private sector, we will continue to improve the investment climate, an area we attach great importance to and have made progress in.
We will make our country a center of attraction in the region in service sectors such as education and health, where we have high potential.
On the one hand, we will create an environment that protects and develops the human resources of our country, and on the
other hand, we will make active efforts to bring foreign brainpower to our country.
With well-equipped individuals, strong companies and institutions, and an adequate and healthy infrastructure, we will elevate our country to a leading and exemplary position in the race for a knowledge-based and competitive world.
Science, Technology and Innovation
Investing in science and knowledge is an investment in our bright future.
Supporting science, technology and innovation is one of our top priorities due to its strategic impact on economic growth, social development, and raising and sustaining the standard of living of our nation.
To this end, the 'High Council for Science and Technology' started to meet regularly,
common strategies in this field were determined and effective coordination between institutions was ensured.
During the AK Party period, direct public resources allocated to R&D increased four and a half times compared to 2002.
Significant support was provided for private sector research and innovation projects, with a
four-fold increase in support in 2006 compared to 2002.
A new program was launched in 2005 to improve the quality and technological level of public services provided to our citizens and to ensure that public procurement is provided from domestic sources.
This program will continue to support scientific projects in a wide range of fields, from agriculture to energy, social security to health.
Significant breakthroughs were also made in the "National Defense Research" and "National Space Research" programs.
The budgets of research projects initiated in this context increased to YTL 500 million in 2007.
A Patent Law was enacted for intellectual property rights and patent incentives.
In addition, all domestic and international patent application costs are covered by state support.
The establishment and support of Technology Platforms that bring together sectoral actors was initiated.
All universities were provided free access to electronic scientific journals and databases.
The actual negotiation process in the Science and Research chapter, one of the EU negotiation chapters, was opened on 12 June 2006 and temporarily closed on the same day. The
7th Framework Program enabled universities, public and private sectors to develop joint projects with their counterparts in the European Union
and to receive support in the form of grants.
Significant support has also been provided to researchers in Social Sciences and Humanities.
In 2006, the support given to projects in this field alone increased fifty times compared to 2002.
The 'High Council for Science and Technology' has set a target for the number of full-time equivalent scientists in Turkey to reach 40,000 by 2013.
As a result of the steps taken in this direction, the number of full-time equivalent researchers increased from 23,000 in 2002 to 34,000 in 2004.
In order to achieve this goal, the Ministry of National Education has started to send 1000 students a year abroad for doctoral programs.
As you can see, we have realized much more than the projects we promised to our people before we came to power.
In the coming years, we will make much more significant progress in this area and increase our country's international competitiveness.
In this context: The share of R&D expenditures in GDP is targeted to increase to 2% by 2013.
All measures will be taken to ensure that at least half of this share is met by the private sector, and the necessary administrative and legal environment will be prepared.
A new draft law has been prepared to support R&D and innovation activities.
This bill, which will be enacted as soon as possible, will provide tax exemptions and reductions (income tax, corporate tax, stamp tax and insurance employer's share, etc.) for all R&D activities.
Necessary steps will be taken to rapidly increase the number of technology-intensive SMEs, and
entrepreneurs with innovative and marketable ideas will be supported with capital given in exchange for company shares.
Research and innovation activities of SMEs, large-scale industrial enterprises, mega research centers to be established in Turkey by international capital, public research institutes and universities will continue to be encouraged.
Furthermore, through the Investment Support and Promotion Agency, active efforts will be made to encourage international high-tech companies to open R&D centers in Turkey.
In an understanding that will increase performance and competition, institutions that provide resources and institutions that carry out R&D activities will be separated.
Necessary facilities will be provided for companies engaged in science, technology and innovation activities in Turkey to collaborate and invest with their international equivalents.
The establishment of Science Centers that introduce and popularize scientific concepts and innovations to the society and promote science culture in our country will be encouraged.
In this framework, the Istanbul Museum of the History of Islamic Science and Technology project will be realized.
Research projects in social sciences and humanities will be supported
and research centers and institutes will be established in these fields. -
An effective communication channel will be established with local and foreign scientists residing abroad
and their participation in science, technology and innovation activities in Turkey will be facilitated
and encouraged.
Necessary measures will be taken to make Turkey a center of attraction for universally successful scientists.
For this purpose; o Providing opportunities for visiting scientists from abroad to work in universities and public research institutes,
o Ensuring that faculty members from abroad can also hold academic positions in Turkey,
o Facilitating the work and residence permits of foreign guest scientists and their spouses,
o Necessary steps will be taken to enable guest scientists to serve as thesis advisors.
In addition, higher education programs will be aligned with internationally recognized higher education quality standards such as ABET within ten years.
Student and academic staff exchange programs will be extended to regions outside European countries.
Information and Communication Technologies, Communication
During the AK Party period, there has been a very rapid transformation towards an 'information society'.
Broadband internet (ADSL) service was launched
and the number of subscribers increased rapidly, reaching 4.4 million.
The number of mobile phone users, which was 23 million at the end of 2002, reached 54 million by the end of 2006.
The number of Internet users increased fivefold from 4 million in 2002 to 20 million in 2006.
In the same period, the number of computers increased from 4 million to 8 million.
In this period, Turkey ranked first in the world in terms of the widespread use of computers.
Monopoly in telecommunications was abolished.
With the transfer of Türk Telekom shares, a period of full liberalization and competition began in the sector, paving the
way for consumers to receive services from alternative operators.
Many legal arrangements were made to meet the needs of developing information technologies, including regulations on
electronic signature, universal service, number portability, 3rd generation licenses and internet crimes.
The AK Party government put Turkey's satellite and space policy program into effect
and in this context, the construction of satellites has started.
e-Government studies have been accelerated and test studies are being carried out.
Transition to digital terrestrial broadcasting, which will be realized by public and private broadcasters, has been initiated.
Broadband high-speed internet infrastructure was completed in schools,
internet classrooms were established and all primary and secondary school students were able to access the internet.
Information Society Strategy (2006-2010) was prepared to ensure the widespread use of information and communication technologies.
This strategy will enable our citizens, businesses and institutions to carry out their existing decision-making and business processes faster and at lower cost.
Thus, the quality of life of our citizens will increase.
In the coming period, liberalization of the telecommunications market will be accelerated.
The new Electronic Communications Law and the regulations of the Telecommunications Authority will create attractive prices for investors and affordable prices for end users.
We will gradually reduce the high tax burden on electronic communication services to reasonable levels within budgetary limits.
Through the Universal Service Fund, projects such as Public Internet Access Centers, Digital Towns, Distance Education and Distance Health Services will be implemented to ensure that low-income citizens benefit from information and communication technologies.
In order to attract international capital and innovation centers, which are oriented towards India, Ireland and China, to Turkey, Informatics Valleys and Technopark projects, where companies in the fields of software, hardware and communication are located collectively, will be supported and the development of the informatics sector will be ensured.
Human resources planning will be carried out in the information and communication sector, and
programs to develop competencies in entrepreneurship, business plan development, marketing and sales will be supported in line with needs and global trends.
Establishment of sector associations, specialization in technology development, quality certification in software and opening up to foreign markets will be encouraged.
The software sector will be given special importance and support as a strategic sector.
The IT investments of SMEs will be continued within the framework of the supports we have put into practice during the period of our government.
Postal Services
With the PTT Bank Project, which facilitates the lives of our citizens and improves the quality of life, the lack of bank branches that were closed during the crisis, especially in rural areas, has been eliminated.
PTT, which was on the verge of making a loss, made a profit of YTL 203 million in 2006 with the PTT Bank Project, and
its monthly transaction volume increased from 2 million to 18.5 million.
In the new period of our new government, efforts will be accelerated to initiate the restructuring and liberalization process related to postal services and to establish a supervisory and regulatory institution.
Infrastructure
Developments in the demographic structure, high urbanization rate and rapidly increasing competition in the economic field are rapidly increasing the need for infrastructure services.
It is among the priorities of the Justice and Development Party to meet the increasing demand with high quality, continuous, safe and minimum cost in line with modern technology and international rules.
In the period ahead, it will be essential to meet the infrastructure needs of our country in a way to accelerate economic and social development.
Reducing production input costs, especially urban infrastructure
and market access opportunities and the growth of the economy
and competitiveness will be enhanced.
In this framework, efficiency will be ensured in the provision of infrastructure services such as transportation, energy, information and communication technologies
and quality standards will be raised.
Infrastructure services, which are the most important prerequisite and input for the production of goods and services, will be provided by the private sector in a competitive market.
Sectors where competitive markets do not exist will be regulated and the financing and operating capability of the private sector will be utilized to the maximum extent.
An environmentally friendly approach will be adopted in the realization of infrastructure investments needed by our country.
Transportation
Although Turkey is a country where all modes of transportation can be used easily due to its geographical location, due to the policies implemented in the past, it has almost become a country where only one type of transportation is used.
Our transportation system, which had become 90 percent dependent on domestic road transportation, could no longer be sustained in its current state.
For this reason, the first thing the AK Party government did when it took office was to prepare a Transportation Master Plan Strategy that would ensure the balanced development of transportation systems.
The objective of this plan for the next ten years is to ensure the parallel development of land, sea, rail and air transportation, and to
ensure the balance between all modes of transportation, with priority given to maritime and air transportation and railways through the projects to be realized.
The priority of the AK Party government is to ensure integrity between modes of transportation.
In other words, it is the development of combined transportation in which air, road and rail can be used together, maritime and rail, road and air can be used jointly.
Highway Sector
Under the Justice and Development Party government, to regulate road transportation as required by the national economy by realizing a first in the sector during this period,
The Road Transport Law was enacted to ensure order and safety in transportation.
The domestic land transportation sector, which has been haphazardly structured for years without taking into account the supply-demand balance, has been organized and the transition to the document system has been ensured.
Thus, with the regulation based on financial competence, professional competence and professional reputation, important steps have been taken to ensure the healthy structuring of the sector.
One by one, projects that had been long awaited for years were realized, and the
longest divided road network in the history of the Republic was constructed during the period of our government.
As of the end of 2002, the total divided road network was 4-326 km, while 6,600 km of new divided road network was completed in just 4.5 years,
Thus, our divided road length, including highways, reached 12,600 km.
The total number of divided roads currently under construction is 1,800 km.
In addition, the Bolu Mountain tunnel, which could not be completed for 17 years, the Muğla Göcek tunnel, which was talked about for 29 years, the Black Sea Coastal Road, which could not be completed for 30 years, the Bursa ring road, the Izmir ring road northern passage and a large part of the Gaziantep Şanlıurfa highway have been completed.
KÖYDEŞ and BELDES applications, which are among the most comprehensive development projects of our Republican history, were initiated during the AK Party government.
With this project, road and drinking water problems of all our villages, which are our most basic needs, have been solved to a great extent.
Our party's most important projects such as divided roads (double roads), increasing the quality of road infrastructure and
improving road safety will continue.
Our target for the coming period is to increase the total length of the divided road network to 15 thousand km.
Railway Sector
The amount of investment made in our railways during the AK Party rule has exceeded what was made in the last 40 years.
Compared to 2003, the increase in investment appropriation in 2006 was realized as 458 percent.
In railways; To start the high speed train era
Revamping the existing system
Ensuring restructuring
Transferring the dynamism of the private sector to railways
The main goal is to adopt an approach that adds value to the procurement process of enterprises.
In line with these goals, we have taken important steps in the last 4 years that we can be proud of on behalf of our country.
Ankara-Istanbul High Speed Train Line: With the completion of this project, the travel time between Ankara and Istanbul will be reduced to 3 hours and the travel time between Ankara and Eskişehir will be reduced to 1 hour, thus our 30-year high speed train dream will be realized.
The first phase of the project, Ankara-Eskişehir high speed train line, has been completed and test drives are ongoing.
Ankara-Konya High Speed Train Line: With the project under construction, Ankara-Konya will be one hour and 15 minutes and Istanbul-Konya, which is 12 hours and 30 minutes, will be three hours and 30 minutes.
Marmaray Project: The Marmaray (Istanbul Bosphorus Tube Crossing) project, an important project for Turkey and the world, is under construction.
With the completion of the project, the share of the rail system in public transportation in Istanbul will increase from 1.7 percent to 28 percent.
The project is Turkey's century-old dream, connecting two continents 60 meters under the sea, thus completing the Silk Road, which has been a trade and culture route for centuries, between continents without interruption.
Kars-Tbilisi-Baku Project: With this important project, which will connect the Far East to Turkey and Western Europe via Central Asia, Turkey will take an important step towards becoming a transportation corridor between East and West.
With the agreement signed between Turkey-Azerbaijan-Georgia, the construction of the project will start this year.
Turkey's First High Speed Train Production Project: The high-speed train factory, which is being built in Sakarya by a Korean-Turkish partnership, will be completed this year and production will start.
Another important step during the AK Party period was to increase transportation in railway operations through block train transportation and the establishment of logistics centers.
In the coming period, we will develop joint solutions with our enterprises to connect many factories to the main railway route.
We will strongly connect Istanbul and the Marmara Region, Turkey's most important industrial base, to Europe by rail and ports.
Aviation Sector
Aviation, today's fastest transportation sector, has come of age during the AK Party rule.
Monopoly on domestic routes was abolished and thanks to the incentives we provided, private companies were enabled to operate scheduled flights to all parts of the country.
As a result, the number of domestic passengers increased from 8.5 million in 2002 to 29 million.
The total number of passengers (domestic + international) increased from 33.5 million in 2002 to 62 million by the end of 2006.
This increase was recorded as a world record. The traffic figures for 2015, which were predicted for Turkey by international aviation organizations, were exceeded in 2005.
The regional aviation project also contributed to Turkish Airlines (THY), which increased its passenger numbers by 100% in three years.
In addition, THY renewed its fleet and increased its international destinations from 78 to 103.
Again in this period, 5 million of our citizens traveled by plane for the first time thanks to our airline strategy launched with the slogan "Every citizen will get on a plane!".
Despite rising fuel prices, with liberalization and competition, air ticket prices have fallen to half of what they were 5 years ago
and air travel has become a necessity rather than a privilege.
Again during this period, airports were built and put into service in important centers with public-private partnership without using public resources from the general budget.
Esenboğa international and domestic terminal and its outbuildings were constructed in less than two years and brought to our capital city.
Similarly, Izmir Adnan Menderes, Muğla-Dalaman and Antalya Airport runways and terminals can be mentioned as some of the important projects constructed during this period.
All of these projects, realized through the Build Operate Transfer model, cost over YTL 1 billion and were funded entirely from means other than budget resources.
In the last 4.5 years, airport capacities have increased by 100%, aircraft fleet by 80% and passenger transportation by 239%.
In the new AK Party government, the liberalization policy we started in aviation will be expanded to include international routes
and the process in which air transport is transformed from a privilege to a necessity will be completed.
Maritime Sector
The maritime sector experienced its golden age during the AK Party rule.
In our country with an 8,400 km coastline, we had almost turned our backs to our seas, but with our efforts, the maritime sector has made significant progress.
The special consumption tax on fuel used at sea was zeroed, thus removing the obstacle to passenger and freight transportation at sea.
Fishermen and businesses engaged in commercial tourism also benefited from these incentives.
Approximately 7.5 million vehicles have been shifted from road to maritime transportation over the last decade, thus reducing the loss of life in road traffic accidents.
As a result of the studies carried out, the rate of Turkish flagged ships detained in foreign ports has been reduced from 24% to 6%, a rate close to the EU level.
Turkish flagged ships were removed from the black list and our flag was given dignity.
Port fees have been reduced, new shipyard investments have made great progress and the number of shipyards has increased from 37 to 120.
While Turkey ranked 23rd in shipbuilding in the world, it has risen to 8th place during our government period, and our merchant fleet has risen from 21st to 13th place.
Today, all of our shipyards have received enough orders to fill their production capacity for 4 years.
A very important contribution to maritime employment has been realized.
Many coastal structure projects were completed during this period.
In the coming period, the port infrastructure in Turkey will be reviewed and new large-capacity port projects with logistics centers will be prepared in cooperation with the public-private sector, particularly in the Aegean and Marmara regions.
Railway connections of ports will be improved.
In the transportation sector, policies and initiatives that include the dynamism of the private sector will be accelerated in the new period.
Our priorities will be to apply the models we have successfully applied in airports and marine structures to other infrastructure projects, using less public resources and more alternative financing models.
Energy
The main objective of the AK Party government's energy policies is to ensure that the energy needs of our growing population and rapidly developing economy are met continuously, with high quality, secure and affordable energy within a transparent free market where competition is established.
The main element of our energy policy is security of energy supply.
Our priorities in terms of supply are to ensure private sector participation, especially in electricity generation and distribution, to
create a functioning market with competition, to
diversify resource and fuel supply countries
, and to reduce import dependency by maximizing the use of domestic resources in energy production.
While energy and especially electricity prices have been increasing rapidly all over the world, thanks to the above-mentioned measures, no increase has been made in the electricity consumed in residences during the period of our government.
In addition, the price of electricity consumed in industry was reduced by 5%.
Our priorities in terms of demand are to reduce energy intensity,
increase efficiency,
reduce losses and leakages to reasonable levels,
Prevention of waste and the dissemination of regulated market practices is the creation of a conscious consumer culture.
During the AK Party rule, the production of expensive mobile power plants was stopped,
electricity imports from Bulgaria were ended, and the
purchase price of natural gas, which constitutes a significant cost in electricity generation, was improved.
According to the "take or pay" principle in natural gas, compulsory gas consumption in electricity generation has been prevented by reducing the amount of gas that we may have to pay for even though we cannot use it.
Electricity generation from domestic coal resources and hydraulic power plants was increased
and the share of imported inputs in electricity generation was reduced from 62% to 53%.
There has been a serious fight against loss and leakage, and
the loss and leakage rate has been significantly reduced.
While energy and especially electricity prices have been increasing rapidly all over the world, thanks to the above-mentioned measures, no increase has been made in the electricity consumed in residences during the period of our government.
In addition, the price of electricity consumed in industry was reduced by 5%.
While our installed capacity in electricity generation was 31,757 MW in 2002, it reached 40,000 MW in 2006 with the investments made.
The Renewable Energy Law was enacted during the period of our government in order to ensure that domestic resources are used to increase the installed capacity and to prevent environmental pollution.
Thus, the conversion of Turkey's hydraulic and wind potential into investments by the private sector was supported.
In order to further accelerate this process, a country Wind Map has been made available to our investors.
By granting water use rights, DSI projects were fully opened to private sector investments.
With the enactment of the Energy Efficiency Law and the Geothermal Law, new steps have been taken towards energy conservation on the demand side and the utilization of domestic resources on the supply side.
Exploration of fossil fuels such as oil, natural gas and coal as domestic resources was accelerated,
Akçakoca Natural Gas Production Facilities and Silivri Natural Gas Depot were made ready for operation.
During the period of our government, the Baku-TifliS'Ceyhan pipeline was completed, the
foundation of Samsun- Ceyhan oil pipeline was laid,
Afşin B and Çan thermal power plants were put into service,
transmission infrastructures were completed in a way not to create bottlenecks until 2010, the
number of provinces reaching natural gas was increased to 47,
366 facilities (dams, ponds, flood protection, etc.), especially Muratlı and Borçka dams, were completed.
Projects have been initiated to make Ceyhan the most important center of the Mediterranean region,
Afşin C and D thermal power plant projects with a total investment of 5 billion dollars have been started, the
foundation of Ilısu Dam has been laid and the construction of Yusufeli Dam has begun.
In the period ahead, our main objective is to ensure security of supply, primarily within the framework of functioning market mechanisms for electricity.
In this framework, while accelerating investments in electricity generation,
necessary legal arrangements will be made to ensure the privatization of electricity generation and distribution.
This will create an uncertainty-free market that inspires confidence in investors, consumers and other members of society.
The work initiated to create a regulated functioning market structure will be rapidly completed
and predictability will be ensured to attract private sector investments.
Securing the supply of our electricity needs in the medium term,
It is our priority to ensure that alternative energy sources are developed to the maximum extent.
Identifying renewable energy resource potentials to ensure energy supply security,
developing applications
and our dissemination efforts will continue.
Necessary legal studies will be finalized rapidly in order to include nuclear energy among our resources,
investments of the private sector in this field will be supported,
enterprises that reduce energy intensity in the manufacturing industry will be encouraged, and
necessary arrangements will be made for the efficient use of energy.
Rehabilitation of existing electricity generation facilities will be realized as soon as possible.
The privatization process will be accelerated with the perspective of restoring the sector to a long-term healthy and sustainable structure.
Public-private cooperation models will be developed in the field of energy.
Lignite fields where a total of 2000 MW thermal power plants can be built will be opened to the private sector.
The share of natural gas in electricity generation will be reduced,
a competitive market will be established in the sector and consumers will benefit from the advantages of competition.
Oil, natural gas and coal exploration activities with the participation of the public and private sectors will be increasingly continued in Turkey and abroad with an approach to reduce external dependency.
Expansion of the use of natural gas in housing and industry will continue,
In this framework, in addition to increasing the number of supplier companies in natural gas supply, taking into account seasonal demand changes
artırılması storage capacities will also be strengthened to ensure security of supply.
Necessary efforts will be continued to utilize the opportunities offered by our geo-strategic position in the transportation of energy (oil, natural gas and electricity) resources in our region to international markets
and this position will be ensured to increase the energy supply security of our country.
With these works, Ceyhan region will be transformed into a terminal where delivery and price formation takes place and
our country will be brought to an important position in the world energy trade.
The Baku'TifliS'Erzurum Natural Gas Pipeline, which aims to bring Shahdeniz gas to our country and has a final capacity of 20 billion cubic meters, will be commissioned very soon.
We will continue our efforts for the realization of the Turkey-Bulgaria-Romania-Hungary-Austria (NABUCCO) Natural Gas Pipeline Project, which envisages the transportation of Caspian and Middle Eastern gas reserves to European markets.
Work on the integration of Turkey's electricity system into the European electricity system will be completed as soon as possible.
In addition, the Natural Gas Pipeline between Turkey and Greece with a capacity of 12 billion cubic meters per year and a 400 KV transmission line will be commissioned soon.
With the completion of these works, our country will have an important infrastructure for energy transit and will also gain advantages in terms of its own supply security.
Improving the Investment Climate
Under the Justice and Development Party, significant progress has been made in improving the investment climate through cooperation between the public and private sectors:
The new Foreign Direct Investment Law abolished discriminatory practices against international investors.
Significant improvements were made in company incorporation processes to rationalize legal processes and reduce unnecessary bureaucracy. The
corporate tax rate was reduced from 33% to 20%. As a result, Turkey became one of the top 5 countries with the lowest tax burden among OECD countries.
The Turkish Investment Support and Promotion Agency was established to meet Turkey's institutional capacity needs in investment promotion and communication.
The administrative capacity and legal framework for the protection of intellectual and industrial property rights have been strengthened and specialized courts have been established.
Efficiency of customs clearance procedures was increased by establishing an infrastructure to ensure full automation in customs services.
Significant improvements were made in the quality of transport, telecommunications and energy infrastructure, and the
number of organized industrial zones and technology development zones was increased to meet the need for investment space.
The Investment Advisory Council convened 4 times with the participation of representatives of the world's leading large companies.
For national and international investors, democratic rule of law with established institutions, macroeconomic and political stability are the main factors affecting investment decisions.
In an environment of predictability, the efficiency of bureaucratic procedures and processes is important.
In this framework, in the upcoming period, as in developed countries, the process of obtaining permission from the public sector for investments will be shortened, and
supervision on issues such as public health, environment and safety of the working environment will be activated.
-The Coordination Board for Improvement of Investment Environment (YOlKK) will continue to work.
Efforts to provide suitable investment locations for investments will be increased.
In order to accelerate legal processes and increase legal predictability, legislative work, particularly the Turkish Commercial Code, will be completed,
physical infrastructure will be improved and
administrative capacity will be strengthened.
Through the Investment Support and Promotion Agency, efforts will be made to attract large investors to our country with the strategy to be established within the framework of the targets set in the Plans and Programs.
Investment incentives will be used in a transparent and effective manner, taking into account our international agreements.
In this context, a State Aid Monitoring Unit will be established and
state aids will be coordinated from a single source.
For national and international investors, democratic rule of law with established institutions, macroeconomic and political stability are the main factors affecting investment decisions.
Foreign Policy
Turkey is a multifaceted and multidimensional country in terms of its foreign policy agenda and areas of responsibility.
Turkey is simultaneously a country of Europe and Asia, Mediterranean, Black Sea and Caspian, East and West, North and South, Balkans, Middle East and Caucasus.
Our historical background, geographical and cultural depth, and strategic position require a well-defined and holistic foreign policy with a multidimensional framework.
As the Justice and Development Party, we take a vision-oriented approach, not a crisis-oriented approach, to make Turkey a regional power and an effective global actor.
This vision-oriented approach is why we do not consider any foreign policy issue as a single event.
Our main goal is to transform Turkey from a defensive country that reacts to crises into a decisive actor that can steer developments with its regional and global vision.
In order to achieve this goal, it is an absolute necessity that our deterrent hard power and our diplomatic, economic and cultural subtle power be used in a well-coordinated whole.
That is why it is principled, balanced and in contact with all global and regional actors,
based on rational foundations
and a well-timed, proactive and dynamic foreign policy.
This foreign policy approach envisages that our country will gain an activity that starts from its own axis and extends to its immediate surroundings, neighboring regions and the global arena.
The most fundamental principle of this vision is to strengthen and enhance the freedom and security of our nation and the sovereignty and independence of our state.
Recognizing that the sovereignty and independence of a country is directly proportional to its foreign policy performance, we want to realize a coordinated concentration of power in every field.
The AK Party believes that a country's foreign policy objective is to create a security space that guarantees the freedom and prosperity of its people.
Therefore, the main principle of our foreign policy is to realize an opening based on the principle of "freedom" without compromising the principle of "security".
In the aftermath of 9/11, while all countries turned to security-based policies and narrowed their areas of freedom, Turkey has been the only country that has expanded its areas of freedom without taking security risks despite all the wars and tensions in our nearby regions during the period of our government.
The AK Party sees freedom and security as complementary, not contradictory, principles. Sacrificing security in the name of freedom leads to anarchy and chaos, while sacrificing freedom in the name of security leads to autocratic and dictatorial regimes.
Realizing these two fundamental principles together for our country and our people will continue to constitute the most fundamental goal of the coming period.
The primary condition for achieving this goal is to create a ring of security and prosperity around our country by strengthening economic, cultural and political ties with neighboring countries.
To this end, our government has prioritized the institutionalization of relations with the Balkans, the Caucasus, the Middle East and Central Asia, as well as the Mediterranean, Black Sea, Caspian and Basra basins in a way to ensure regional prosperity and stability
, and has taken radical steps in this direction.
Full membership of the EU is not only about raising the standard of living of our people, but also about
It is necessary for the establishment of a zone of trust and stability in our immediate neighborhood.
The transatlantic alliance system and our strategic relations with the United States constitute the most important elements of our effective and decisive participation in regional and global processes.
Following the November 3, 2002 elections, our government, which took office in an extremely risky global and regional conjuncture, has endeavored to turn these risks into advantages and has achieved significant success in this direction.
When the AK Party came to power, it was said that there was no room for maneuver on many foreign policy issues, especially on the EU, Iraq and Cyprus, and that we had no possibility to produce alternative policies.
Those who were pessimistic and fatalistic were convinced that Turkey no longer had the capacity to produce new policies.
We did not and do not see this as compatible with Turkey's deep-rooted historical background, the vast diplomatic experience of our state, the honor of our nation and the self-confidence of our government based on strong political will.
We are not based on reflexes, but on sound and rational analysis;
not short-term palliative solutions, but long-term permanent solutions
and we have adopted an approach that is effective internationally.
We have pursued policies that will make Turkey a country that influences rather than influenced, a country that determines rather than determines.
This approach was a much more difficult, but more honorable and rational choice.
When we came to power, we made short, medium and long term plans in our foreign policy as in other areas.
In 2003, we first brought urgent foreign policy challenges - the EU accession process, the Cyprus negotiations and the Iraq war - under control in the national interest,
then we created new areas of initiative.
We focused on foreign policy areas that had been neglected in previous periods, particularly Central Asia.
While we tied our work on the EU accession process to a realistic program,
we abandoned reactive attitudes in Cyprus and developed new initiatives.
Thanks to new policies and measures, we prevented the war in Iraq from negatively affecting our country.
In 2004, we pursued four main goals in addition to the rnutad foreign policy practices: Strengthening Turkey's relations with neighboring countries in a way to reinforce Turkey's position as a regional power;
bringing Turkey to the international agenda in a way to mobilize its potential as a global actor; launching
a proactive diplomacy process on Cyprus; and
initiating the accession negotiations with the EU.
In this framework, relations with neighboring countries were established on a strong footing and Turkey hosted global forums such as the Organization of the Islamic Conference (OIC), OECD and NATO summits.
Thus, world leaders met in Turkey.
On the other hand, with the active diplomacy in Cyprus, we gained the upper hand in the international arena in this national cause of more than half a century and finally decided to start accession negotiations with the EU at the 17 December 2004 summit. In
2004, an intensive program was implemented to expand our global sphere of influence.
While strengthening our influence in our nearby basins such as the Balkans, the Caucasus and the Middle East,
de facto negotiations with the EU were launched on October 3, 2005.
With a comprehensive approach to Iraq, our influence on Iraqi groups has been increased and our decisive position on regional balances has been strengthened through the neighboring countries platform we pioneered.
The program of opening up to Africa was implemented and the Alliance of Civilizations project was led as co-chair.
Thus, a deep-rooted cultural and civilizational dimension was added to the principle of "peace at home, peace in the world".
With the policies pursued in 2006 on Palestine, Lebanon, Syria and Iran, the country gained the position of a regional power that can establish relations with all actors in the Middle East and protect regional peace and stability against ethnic and sectarian polarization.
The relations with the Gulf states and the institutionalization of the relationship with the Arab League have further strengthened this position.
On the other hand, with the commissioning of Baku'TifliS'Ceyhan and the realization of the Turkish-Azeri-Kazakh cooperation project, our economic and political relations in the Caucasus and Central Asia have been put on a real basis.
Within the framework of the Latin American Year, a new initiative was launched in this region and efforts were intensified for our permanent membership in the UN Security Council (UNSC).
In the first half of 2007, Turkey further strengthened our role as an order-builder, problem-solver and facilitator in the Middle East and Central Asia, as demonstrated by the Miisharraf-Karzai and Solana-Larijani meetings.
With the summit of the Organization of the Black Sea Economic Cooperation (BSEC), our position on the Black Sea and Eurasian axis was reinforced in a way to create integrity with the EU, and with the African summit, which we attended in observer status, our relations in this continent were given an institutional character.
In the period ahead, we will continue our efforts to maximize the international reputation and effectiveness of our country.
Neighboring Countries
The principle of "zero problems with neighboring countries" is the backbone of our policy towards neighboring countries.
Despite the wars, tensions and civil unrest in our immediate basins in the past period, we have experienced a golden period in our relations with our immediate neighbors.
The network of relations we have established with our land-linked neighbors such as Iran, Iraq, Syria, Bulgaria, Greece, Azerbaijan and Georgia, and maritime neighbors such as Russia, Ukraine and Romania, has created a wide security belt around us,
so that we can focus our energies on economic development
and democratization.
These relations, which we carry out with the "constant contact" method, have brought us closer to the goal of "zero problems and maximum cooperation with our neighbors".
As a result of the close relations with Georgia, the opening of Battım airport to Turkish domestic flights, the
integration of Gaziantep and Aleppo economies with the Free Trade Agreement signed with Syria, the
regularization of mutual visits and contacts between the Turkish and Greek General Staffs initiated in this period, the
fact that our compatriots in Bulgaria constitute a bridge of peace and friendship between us and this neighboring country, and the fact that
our foreign trade with Iran has tripled in this period are some striking results of the mutual trust established with neighboring countries.
In this framework, we will continue to take the initiative in our relations with Armenia, with which we have the only problematic neighborly relationship,
and we will try to raise our relations to the desired level when the steps we take are reciprocated.
In this context, saving Turkey-Armenia relations from the negative influence of the Armenian diaspora,
to respond to the allegations related to the 1915 events in the most effective way in the international arena with a proactive approach, as in our proposal for a joint history commission
and our efforts to find a just and lasting solution to the Karabakh conflict will continue without interruption.
This network of relations that we have established with neighboring countries will become permanent and institutionalized.
We have to rapidly move out of the psychology of conflict based on the assumption that "we are surrounded by enemies" and adopt the mission of being a founding actor of cooperation and dialogue.
The ideal of a "great and central country" can only be realized with such a psychology of self-confidence.
Cyprus
Increasing the international influence of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus in every field to ensure the security and welfare of the Turkish Cypriot people
and maintaining the balance and stability in the Eastern Mediterranean constitute the two main strategic objectives of Turkey's Cyprus policy.
With the dynamic Cyprus policy we pursued in the last period, Turkey gained a great psychological advantage on the one hand and increased the international legitimacy and effectiveness of the TRNC on the other.
As of 2002, Turkey, which was overwhelmed by international pressure on the Cyprus issue, was freed from this pressure without making the slightest concession from our national interests as a result of our active policy
and gained a great maneuverability in the international arena.
While reaching this point, not a single soldier has been withdrawn and not
a square meter of land has been given.
Our government's active and diplomacy-intensive approach, which is able to communicate with the whole world, has both expanded our room for maneuver in Cyprus and paved the way for a radical change in Turkey's international image.
As a country that constructively supports, rather than obstructs, UN processes, Turkey has gained the ability to increase its influence in international platforms, particularly its membership in the UNSC.
The Greek Cypriot lobby's policy of squeezing Turkey on the grounds of Cyprus, which had the power to influence Turkey-US relations, has completely lost its effect.
During this period, there has been a significant increase in the TRNC's international contacts.
Every year an increasing number of international officials visit Cyprus and the TRNC President and members of the government receive a higher level of attention and recognition in the countries they visit.
Previously, the TRNC President could only meet with UN officials, but as a result of the policies we pursued, he visited this country for the first time at the official invitation of the President of Pakistan.
The President of the European Commission held official meetings with the foreign ministers of the United States, the United Kingdom, Russia, Germany, France and the Netherlands.
The TRNC used to participate in the Organization of the Islamic Conference as a "Muslim Minority", but now it can participate as the "Turkish Cypriot State".
In the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, the TRNC is represented by two deputies.
As a result of the policies we pursued, the TRNC opened offices in many countries for the first time
and its representatives in these countries started to work like ambassadors.
The level of economic development of the Turkish Cypriot people has shown great progress, with
per capita income rising from USD 4,500 in 2002 to USD 11,270 by the end of 2006.
During this period, significant increases were achieved in the resources transferred to the TRNC from Turkey's budgetary resources.
While the bed capacity in the field of tourism was 6,000 in the 28-year period between 1974 and 2002, the number of beds has increased by 2,170 in the last three years with the incentives provided by Turkey
and the construction of hotels with a capacity of 16,849 beds has started.
Bed capacity is targeted to increase to 30,000 in 2009.
As a result of our efforts, many 5-star hotels have opened on the island.
While the number of students at universities in Cyprus was 21 thousand in 1999, this number reached 40 thousand in 2005.
During our government period, METU opened a campus in Giizelyurt and land was allocated for the campus of Istanbul Technical University.
In order to strengthen the infrastructure, 88 km of dual carriageways and 585 km of roads in other categories have been built in Cyprus in the last four years.
Ercan airport has been made suitable for international flights with additional investments.
Our principled and consistent stance on the Cyprus problem, which is being used as an obstacle to Turkey's relations with the EU, will remain unchanged.
Treating the Cyprus problem as a precondition for Turkey-EU relations is contrary to EU principles and international law.
Turkey will maintain its determination on this issue. Turkey has and will continue to see the Cyprus problem as a UN agenda item.
In the period ahead, our strategy based on protecting our interests in the Eastern Mediterranean and the rights of the TRNC will continue to be implemented on more solid grounds.
Neighboring Regions
Every problem in the Balkans, the Middle East, the Caucasus and Central Asia directly affects our country.
In order to prevent the spread of crisis areas in these basins, we will continue our efforts to resolve problem areas such as Karabakh, Abkhazia and Kosovo through peaceful means.
We will also continue to play an active role in containing trouble spots such as Palestine and Lebanon.
Our efforts to add economic, political, social and cultural depth to our relations with the Balkans region will continue with increasing momentum.
The Balkans have entered a new transformation process with Bulgaria and Romania becoming EU members in 2007, Turkey and Croatia starting negotiations with the EU, Kosovo's final status being determined, the Dayton Agreement, which has completed its 10th anniversary, being reviewed and Bosnia-Herzegovina being politically restructured, the Ohrid Agreement being implemented in Macedonia, and the Western Balkans' positions in international systems and organizations such as the EU and NATO being redefined.
In this critical period, order, prosperity and stability in the Balkans are among the most important foreign policy priorities for our country.
The AK Party considers political stabilization in the Caucasus, which is fragile due to frozen crises, to be of vital importance for Turkey's economic and cultural links with the region.
We will continue to actively contribute to efforts to resolve these crises peacefully and to enhance intra-regional dialogue and cooperation.
The Caspian basin and the Central Asian region are the backbone of Turkey's Eurasian strategy.
The cultural, economic and social instruments of our policy towards this region with which we have deep-rooted historical ties will be diversified.
We believe that strengthening economic relations will strengthen peace and stability.
The commissioning of the Bakti-TifliS'Ceyhan project in 2006 was a major contribution to the global economy based on security in energy corridors.
The Baku-Tbilisi-Kars railway agreement, which had been discussed for many years but could not be realized, was signed.
Connecting the Caucasian energy corridor to the world through Turkey, the Bakii-TifliS'Ceyhan and Shahdeniz projects will have a positive impact not only on global energy policies but also on intra-regional peace and stability.
The transformation of the Black Sea basin into a region of prosperity, democracy and stability, the
establishment of lasting peace in the Caucasus
, and the emergence of a stable structure in Central Asia, supported by economic and political reforms, will transform
the wider Eurasian region from an area of risk for world peace into an area of great opportunity and attraction
Turkic World
Fulfilling Turkey's historical responsibility and protecting Turkic and related states and communities are among the priorities of our foreign policy.
During the period of our government, while providing assistance to this geography, professional and sustainable relations were developed, far from hamasacism, and
the needs of the Turkic world were responded to with effective and result-oriented projects.
AK Party considers its relations with Turkic states and communities as a historical responsibility above any measurable interest.
The main principles of our policy towards the Turkic world are unity in language and culture, integration in economy and absolute solidarity in the international arena.
In this framework, the Turkish World Congress, which had been neglected for a long time, was held during our government period and the problems of the Turkic states and communities spread over three continents were discussed.
Our historical, cultural and institutional relations with Turkic states and communities will continue with the same enthusiasm in our next term.
On the other hand, trade and investment activities for the Turkic world were prioritized, and
energy projects connecting and integrating the Turkic world in the east-west direction with the Baku-TifliS'Ceyhan and Shahdeniz projects of approximately 1800 km were implemented.
In the coming period, efforts to extend these projects east of the Caspian Sea into Central Asia will continue at the same pace.
Our efforts towards the Turkic world have been enriched and continued in the field of related communities and foreign Turks as well as inter-country relations.
In this context, on the one hand, the Turkish Diaspora Summit was spearheaded, and
On the other hand, effective efforts were continued to strengthen the cultural, economic and political position of our citizens living abroad.
During the period of our government, the Turkish Cooperation and Development Administration (TlKA) will continue its aid activities aimed at contributing to the basic infrastructure problems of the Turkic world without sparing any sacrifice.
These activities will be supported by intensive cultural promotion, an extensive transportation network and a comprehensive communication strategy.
Our aid activities, which aim to strengthen our relations with the Turkic world, are spread across three continents,
During the period of our government, development support was provided to Crimean Tatars, Gagauz Turks, Uzbeks and Ttirkmen of Afghanistan, Azeri and Karakalpak Turks of Georgia, Kazakhs of Mongolia, Kosovo Turks, Macedonian Turks, Western Thrace and Bulgarian Turks, Ttirkmen of Northern Iraq and Meskhetian Turks,
historical and cultural values were ensured.
In addition, the promised 1,000 houses for Crimean Turks were purchased and delivered
, and the construction of a 50 km highway to the Orkhon Monuments, the oldest written source of Turkish history, was completed.
All the projects that previous governments had promised but failed to deliver, and thus weakened Turkey's reputation and influence, were realized under our government.
Strengthening the ties of our citizens abroad, who number 5 million, with Turkey
and comprehensive policies have been pursued to ensure that they become equal and effective actors in the countries where they live.
For these citizens, contacts were established for the preservation of Turkish language and culture, the
period of military service was reduced from thirty days to twenty-one days,
and the e-consulate service was introduced to facilitate citizenship procedures.
Within the same framework, projects for the organization of Turkish Businessmen's Congresses and the establishment of Turkish Cultural Houses abroad have begun to be implemented.
Middle East
The Middle East is at a historic crossroads of great tensions and significant transformations.
The widespread escalation of tensions in the region will have consequences that directly affect Turkey's national interests in terms of rising oil prices, energy security, tourism, foreign financial inflows, and trade flows to the south and east.
The AK Party has developed an inclusive and integrative vision of the region based on consistent principles that stem from Turkey's historical responsibilities and experiences.
Our vision for this region is based on four main principles: The security principle: An all-encompassing understanding and system of security for everyone in the region
Political principle: Establishing political mechanisms for the peaceful resolution of crises
Economic principle: Fair distribution of resources based on the principle of common economic interests
Cultural principle: Preserving and developing the values and structures that will enable different ethnic and sectarian identities to live together without conflict.
In order to realize this vision that will guarantee global and regional peace, risk and crisis areas that threaten regional security must be brought under control.
We will maintain a dynamic and proactive regional policy that will realize this vision through strategic and tactical steps.
In this context, finding an equitable solution to the Palestinian conflict
and we will continue to do our utmost to stabilize Lebanon.
Iraq
Turkey's regional policy in recent years provides a suitable ground for new openings in this framework.
Our view of the Iraqi problem, which constitutes the most important agenda item of international relations at the global and regional level, is a natural extension of this regional vision.
Developments in Iraq will significantly affect the energy lines, which are the arteries of the global political economy, and the production-consumption balances of the global economy.
On the other hand, the possible fragmentation of Iraq's political structure will upset regional geopolitical balances.
The ethnic and sectarian-based identity fragmentation seen in Iraq and trending to spread to other regions will not only increase regional tensions, but will also have consequences that may affect the internal integrity of each country.
In all these areas, the coming period will be a critical period not only for Iraq, but also for our region and international relations.
Turkey, which has deep-rooted historical, geographical, economic and cultural ties with Iraq, has the most decisive role in these efforts, which is not a political choice for us, but a strategic necessity.
Our influence on developments in Iraq will form the building blocks of our regional and global influence.
For Turkey, the security and stability of Iraq is of great importance not only as a neighboring country but also for Turkey's security.
For this reason, Turkey has been one of the countries that have made the greatest efforts for the stability and security of Iraq in the last four years.
The creation of a platform of neighboring countries, the participation of the Stinnis in the political process, the provision of logistical support for Iraq's economic needs from Turkey, and the supply of main energy sources such as electricity and oil are just some of these contributions.
Our Iraq policy is based on an active and assertive discourse based on the principles of peace, security, democracy and stability.
Our Iraq policy as a reflection of the general principles of our Middle East regional policy; Security principle: Security for all, regardless of ethnic and sectarian identity
Political principle: Participatory representative democracy based on absolute territorial integrity,
Legal principle: Aninclusive constitutional framework that guarantees Iraq's territorial integrity and unity
Economic principle: Reconstruction, efficient use and fair sharing of resources,
Cultural principle: Pluralist unity.
Our view on the Kirkuk issue, which is one of the most critical issues for the stability of Iraq in the coming period and which is a small Iraq with all its characteristics, is also within the framework of these principles.
In order to better explain Turkey's arguments on Kirkuk, great efforts were made in the Arab countries, the EU and the US
, conferences were organized in Turkey and abroad and reports were published.
As a result, the importance of Kirkuk was better understood.
A solution to the Kirkuk issue based on the principles of equity with the participation of all ethnic and sectarian elements will continue to be one of our priority agenda items.
The north of Iraq is of particular importance for Turkey.
We consider Turkmens, Kurds and Arabs living in this region as our relatives.
We pay special attention to developing our economic relations with this region.
However, the use of northern Iraq as a safe haven by terrorists is a major obstacle to the development of our relations.
We will take all kinds of measures in the most effective way against the terrorist threat that feeds on instability in Iraq.
We will not allow any neighboring country's territory to be used as a base for terrorist acts against our country.
Turkey has the strength and maturity to respond to both the threat against it and the hand of friendship extended to it.
Turkey will continue to do its best for Iraq's stability, internal peace, integrity and prosperity.
European Union
Turkey's policy priorities in the immediate region and peripheral basins are integral to Turkey's EU accession process.
The AK Party views EU-Turkey relations within the framework of a strategic vision that includes bilateral relations as well as the perspective of global and regional peace and order.
From this perspective, EU-Turkey relations are an important pivot for smoothing tensions that threaten global peace and promoting global cooperation in risk areas such as international terrorism, cultural conflict and energy security.
Important opportunities were missed during the EU enlargement periods because Turkey was not well prepared and could not raise its democratic standards. The
17 December 2004 EU summit decision gave impetus to Turkey's half-century-long efforts to integrate with the EU
and gave an institutional dimension to Turkey's will to become a regional and global actor. On
October 3, 2005, following the actual negotiations, the screening process was completed
and negotiations on the first chapter were concluded on June 11, 2006.
Despite the political problems stemming from Cyprus, technical work continues successfully on all chapters today.
The AK Party sees the EU accession process as both an integration and a restructuring process that raises Turkey's political, economic, social and legal standards.
The EU acquis screening process has laid the groundwork for the structural transformation we will realize in many areas in our country.
As we decided in early 2007, reforms in many areas will continue rapidly regardless of whether the chapters are officially opened for negotiations or not.
Announced on 17 April 2007, "Turkey's Programme for Harmonization with the EU Acquis" includes a detailed outline of the reforms to be implemented in 2007-2013, their timetable and the responsible institutions.
Covering 188 legal regulations and 576 secondary regulations, this document is a concrete demonstration of our determination to bring Turkey to the highest standards regardless of the political problems of the EU accession process.
Transatlantic Relations and the US
Turkey's EU membership has the effect of both deepening and broadening transatlantic relations.
Turkey has a decisive position and role in overcoming strategic tensions in the area stretching from Europe to Eurasia.
With this position, Turkey is one of the most important actors in NATO and the transatlantic alliance system.
The new initiatives put forward at NATO's 2004 Istanbul Summit and developed at other summits will be implemented with Turkey's active contribution.
Our active military and political role in NATO's operation in Afghanistan has been the clearest indicator of this determination
and the Turkish-Afghan brotherhood has started to take root in hearts again.
In this framework, Turkish-American relations, both bilaterally and within the alliance system, are based on a deep-rooted history, a comprehensive commonality of goals and interests, and a solid geopolitical foundation,
Our relations are multidimensional in scope and multifaceted in application.
The institutionalization of this relationship by adapting it to new conditions is of great importance not only for bilateral relations but also for global and regional peace.
These relations need to be enriched in a broader economic, technological, social and cultural field.
We see our alliance with the United States, our active role in NATO - the backbone of transatlantic relations - and our EU accession process as key elements of a common goal.
Asia, Africa and Latin America
Relations with key Eurasian actors such as Russia, China, India and Japan are not an alternative to Turkey's institutionalized relations with the EU and the US.
Such antagonisms, which reflect the logic of the Cold War, are outside our foreign policy understanding and strategic approach.
Relations with Russia, which have recently improved, will be diversified and maintained, while our relations with important Asian countries such as China, India and Japan will be accelerated.
On the other hand, opening up policies towards regions such as Africa, the Far East and Latin America, which have remained outside the foreign policy horizon until this period, will be continued with increasing speed.
We will closely follow up the projects we started in 2005 in Africa and 2006 in Latin America
, and we will strengthen the infrastructure in these regions until 2013 and we will be among the most active countries in these regions in 2023.
Our insufficient presence in these regions is the opening of new embassies and missions,
Expanding the scope of TlKA's activities,
foreign trade will be intensified by increasing our cultural and promotional activities.
International Organizations
In order to realize this vision, which starts from our immediate neighborhood and extends to the entire globe, we will focus on expanding our international diplomatic representation and developing our activities in areas other than classical diplomacy.
In this framework, we will increase our presence, representation and effectiveness in international organizations and forums.
The recent appointments of Turkish executives to the presidency of the UNDP, the secretary general of the OIC and the senior civilian leadership of Afghanistan are the first signs of this activity.
A major campaign has been launched for Turkey to be elected as a non-permanent member of the UNSC in 2009-2010 after fifty years.
As a result of this careful campaign, Turkey became a candidate to become a member of the UNSC after 50 years.
Apart from diplomacy, we will increase our international influence in foreign trade, energy, humanitarian aid, transportation, culture-promotion, science and technology.
Recognizing that in today's world, economic and commercial relations go hand in hand with political relations, the AK Party will accelerate our foreign trade volume in a way that will increase our economic competitiveness.
The fact that the volume of exports, which was 36 billion in 2002, will exceed 100 billion in 2007 demonstrates the progress we have made towards this goal.
As AK Party, we are determined to support the state-centered official diplomacy process with society-centered civil foreign policy instruments.
In this framework, we will continue to increase our country's presence in every geography with international technical and humanitarian aid activities.
While further intensifying its activities in the countries where it is active, TlKA will continue to expand into new geographies in a planned manner.
Turkey: Regional Power, Global Actor
With all these vision and method principles, we aim to create a new image of Turkey in the international arena.
We believe that we have to play a central role between the east and the west culturally, between the north and the south economically and politically.
We define our country's global position not in terms of a reactionary and passive bridge role, but as an action-oriented and active center country.
This definition is not a cyclical and tactical definition, but a permanent and strategic definition required by our deep historical background and geopolitical position.
Turkey has a special position and a global mission with its historical, geographical and cultural depth, economic and democratic dynamism.
The AK Party believes that there are three main conditions for success in international relations: Psychological self-confidence, strategic planning and strong political will.
Our main goal in the period ahead is to fulfill these conditions and make Turkey the rising power of the 21st century.
We will follow this path that opens Turkey to the world rather than closing it in, that expands Turkey's strategic horizons rather than narrowing them, that strengthens Turkey's global and regional influence rather than weakening it, and that makes Turkey an influential center country rather than an influential periphery country.
Foreign Aid
In parallel with our active foreign policy, a new approach was introduced to foreign technical assistance, development project support and humanitarian aid.
A more planned and effective aid policy was pursued in Central Asia, the Caucasus, the Balkans, the Middle East and Africa, particularly in the Turkic Republics and Turkic communities.
Coordination has been ensured in foreign aid activities previously carried out by different institutions in a disorganized and unplanned manner.
Turkey's foreign aid has not only been increased in quantity, but
a comprehensive inventory of this aid has also been made.
This aid has started to be reported according to international standards.
As a result of these efforts, the quality and quantity of Turkey's foreign aid has become clearer, and
Turkey has been granted the title of "donor country" by the UN and OECD.
Within this framework, the budget and field of activity of the Turkish Cooperation and Development Administration (TlKA) have been expanded,
increased effectiveness of the institution,
Acting with the awareness of a great state, Turkey's helping hand has reached a wider geography,
The number of TlKA country coordinatorships increased from 12 when we came to power to 20,
New representative offices were opened in Macedonia, Kosovo, Montenegro, Afghanistan, Palestine, Ethiopia, Sudan and Senegal.
As a requirement of Turkey's sense of humanitarian and historical responsibility, our foreign aid has been increased substantially during our period in power.
Turkey was the first to help Pakistan after the earthquake,
Turkey made a major contribution to the recovery from the Tstınami disaster in Southeast Asia,
Turkey played an active role in the fight against hunger and misery in the Darftır region of Sudan.
These efforts have increased the international effectiveness of the Turkish Red Crescent.
During the period of our government, intensive efforts have been made for the protection, restoration and preservation of our historical heritage, especially in Central Asia, the Caucasus and the Balkans, as well as in Lebanon and Palestine.
An inventory of these monuments has been made and the restoration of many important historical monuments has been completed.
As AK Party, we will continue our foreign technical assistance and humanitarian aid policy with the same determination in parallel with our dynamic foreign policy in our new term.
Defense
In accordance with Atatürk's principle of "peace at home, peace in the world" and due to the historical and strategic position of our country, it has been our fundamental policy for Turkey to have a strong national defense system.
With this understanding, we not only focused on strengthening our national defense industry, but also gave
priority to meeting all kinds of needs of the Turkish Armed Forces in a timely manner.
During this period, many new projects were launched as part of the modernization of the Turkish Armed Forces:
Projects such as the 'Modern Tank Development Project', the 'Attack, Tactical/Reconnaissance Helicopter (ATAK) Project', the 'National Warship Project', the 'Jet Trainer Aircraft', the 'Unmanned Aerial Vehicle' and the 'Next Generation Fighter Aircraft (F'35)' are some of the most important ones.
We are proud of the fact that the share of Turkish industry in the design and production of our defense industry has been increased through new projects.
With the work carried out during the period of our government, the share of domestic procurement of the needs of our Armed Forces, which was 25 percent in 2002, has reached nearly 50 percent today.
The international effectiveness of our defense industry has also been increased, and
our exports of military assault boats and ships, weapons, other defense equipment, command control and electronic warfare systems have been increased to 350 million dollars.
In addition to the procurement and development projects carried out within the framework of the needs of the Turkish Armed Forces, the development of our domestic defense industry
and great emphasis has been placed on research and development activities that will reduce our country's dependence on foreign resources.
In this period, Turkey, with its strong army and defense industry, has been involved in NATO, EU and UN organizations to maintain peace in many countries.
and has assumed important roles within the framework of its mission to ensure security.
The AK Party's national defense policy will continue with the same determination in the coming period, and the
development of the defense industry and R&D activities will be supported with priority.
, which will make Turkey's power felt in all conditions and geographies.
, capable of conducting both conventional and asymmetric wars
Our main goal will be to create a defense system and force with high deterrence, survivability and combat power
We will continuously monitor technological developments in the world and develop our domestic defense industry with modern methods in line with the priorities and needs of our country and the Turkish Armed Forces.
Thus, we will reduce our country's foreign dependency.
AND ON THE ROAD
and moving on, yes...
TO MAKE TURKEY A MORE INFLUENTIAL WORLD POWER,
TO BRING THE TURKISH NATION TO MORE PROSPEROUS DAYS,
FOR A COUNTRY WITH MORE DEMOCRACY AND MORE FREEDOM,
FOR THE SWEAT AND TEARS OF THE BROW TO FULLY REAP THE REWARD THEY DESERVE,
TO MAKE BREAD BIGGER,
TO SHARE OUR BREAD WITH COMPLETE FAIRNESS,
FOR MORE SECURITY AND PEACE,
TO REMOVE ALL BITTERNESS FROM HEARTS AND TABLES,
TO FURTHER GLORIFY VIRTUE AND JUSTICE,
TO GIVE OUR CHILDREN A BETTER EDUCATION,
TO GIVE OUR ELDERLY PEOPLE MORE OF THE RESPECT THEY DESERVE,
TO FULLY EMPOWER OUR WOMEN AGAINST ALL FORMS OF DISCRIMINATION,
FOR THE CONTINUATION OF STABILITY AND CONFIDENCE, WE ASK FOR "AUTHORIZATION" FROM OUR NATION.
AS THE CHILDREN OF THIS COUNTRY, WHO CONSIDER THE GLORIFICATION OF THIS COUNTRY AS THE GREATEST HONOR AND THE GREATEST LEGACY THEY WILL LEAVE TO THEIR CHILDREN, WE ASK FOR A NEW "MANDATE" FROM OUR BELOVED NATION.
THE CONSCIENCE AND CONSCIOUSNESS OF OUR BELOVED NATION IS OUR GUIDE.
ONLY THE NATION IS THE TRUE HOLDER OF AUTHORITY.
THE DECISION IS THE NATION'S!
KEEP GOING, KEEP GOING
