A. Due Diligence:
"A New Government is Needed
" Turkey will go to the polls on June 24, 2018 for the Presidential and Parliamentary General Elections and will elect the cadres that will govern itself for 5 years.
The outcome of these elections will either mark the beginning of a process of normalization for our country or a further strengthening of the repressive approach.
At this historic crossroads, we firmly believe that our nation will reverse the course with its usual common sense and wisdom.
The government, which has been ruling our country for 16 years, decided to hold early elections very soon after it stated unequivocally that the elections would be held on the normal date.
In fact, given the date set, it is obvious that the elections were not early elections but a snap election.
At this point, the looming economic crisis
and the gradual loss of social support seem to have played a role in the decision to hold a snap election.
The fact that the elections were held earlier than the set date is itself a confirmation that the Government and the President are unable to govern the country.
16 years of AK Party rule in Turkey has created a bleak picture of the country.
In the current picture; the country is polarized and divided into camps.
Repression and domination have increased.
Freedom of thought, expression and the press have been shelved.
The state of emergency has become normalized.
A one-man regime has been established.
Different and dissenting voices have been silenced.
The institutions that form the backbone of the state have been eroded.
The economy is in a bottleneck.
The current account deficit has grown.
Agriculture and animal husbandry have been destroyed.
Foreign policy is bankrupt.
The justice system has collapsed.
An army of victims has been created.
Corruption has reached its historic peak.
Bribery, favoritism, nepotism, torpil, partisanship have become commonplace.
Education has turned into a jigsaw puzzle.
Moral and spiritual degeneration has become evident.
The family structure is broken.
Crime and violence have increased.
Factories have been sold.
The future of our beloved nation has been mortgaged due to consumption-oriented investments.
Even those who are currently governing the country say that Turkey is in a struggle for survival, almost admitting the gravity of the situation they have brought the country to.
Moreover, those who boast of lifting the state of emergency in a certain part of our country have been ruling the whole of our country under state of emergency since July 20, 2016.
The state of emergency, which was said to be valid for 3 months when it was first announced, has been extended 7 times.
So much so that today even the elections are being held under OHAL conditions.
It seems that the state of emergency is not for Turkey, but for the AK Party.
Because with the state of emergency, the law has gone and the decree has come.
Elected people left and appointed people came.
Ministers left and advisors came.
Common sense is gone, only one mind has come.
The consultation is gone, the instruction has come.
The parliament has gone and the palace has come.
Justice is gone, victimization is here.
While Turkey has ceased to be a livable country due to wrong policies, the fire just beyond our borders has been fueled and wounds that are difficult to heal have been opened.
The mistakes of the AK Party government have brought not only our country but also our region to the brink of a major disaster.
Despite its imperialist ambitions in the region, the US, which is defined as a strategic partner, has provided all kinds of support, including weapons, to terrorist organizations.
Those who were described as allies one day became enemies the next; agreements were signed over the blood of martyrs with those who were once called "one minute".
In some cases, diplomatic practices were disregarded and EU membership was defined as a goal.
These inconsistencies in foreign policy have unfortunately pushed our country into the position of an ineffective and marginalized country.
B. There is Hope, There is Bliss
We are not hopeless despite the pessimistic picture our country is in.
After the June 24 elections, with the Saadet government, Turkey will rapidly enter the normalization process.
In three years, the economy is strong,
A Turkey whose citizens are peaceful, prosperous, a land of peace and brotherhood will be built.
In the Saadet government, our country will reach a standard of living that it deserves in three stages as repair, investment and breakthrough period.
First of all, social peace and tranquility will be ensured and the
independence of the judiciary will be established.
Separation of powers will prevail in line with the rule of law.
We will build a Turkey where all citizens with different identities and lifestyles will live freely and fraternally.
Public resources allocated to consumption and waste will be directed to production and employment and a rapid and widespread development move will be initiated.
Material and
spiritual development will be emphasized together.
A comprehensive education reform will be realized so that our youth can look to the future with hope.
Favoritism and discrimination will be eliminated in every field from education to employment, from public tenders to appointments, and a fair system based on merit will be established.
By pursuing a dignified and consistent foreign policy, our country will gain the reputation it deserves in the international arena.
The vision of Turkey as a leading country will be realized by establishing deep-rooted relations with the oppressed in all geographies, especially the countries in our region.
Not a Turkey that opens space for imperialist powers, but a strong Turkey that is the hope of oppressed geographies will be created.
Saadet in power;
The 5 "Y "s will never be allowed: Corruption
Prohibition
Fawning
Looting
Cronyism The
5 "A "s will never be abandoned.
Wisdom
Justice
Morality
Devotion
Nobility
As Saadet Party, we believe and trust in our nation.
On the morning of June 25th, we will get to work with love and enthusiasm and we will start building "Great Turkey Again" and "A New World" together.
We do politics to make the right prevail and to establish a just order.
We have the ideal of a Turkey where there are no oppressors and oppressed, where the burden is shouldered together and the blessings are shared fairly.
We want to see glimmers of hope and light for the future in the pupils of our youth.
We dream of a country of peace where all our citizens embrace each other wholeheartedly.
C. Felicity Party Solves
1. Our Understanding of Politics
a. We do not polarize, we embrace
Destroying the richness of people who share the same space and the same social memory, and disrupting social order and harmony leads to polarization and conflict.
As a result of polarization, the hearts of people who share the same history and geography are broken, the spirit of social peace and solidarity is wounded and people are left alone with their pain and suffering.
While polarization produces marginalization, it also becomes a great opportunity for those who have negative ambitions for our country.
While polarization is fueled in the name of small accounts inside, as a nation we are being turned into the object of the great strategic goals of sovereign powers.
The exploitation of all kinds of common values for the sake of short-term political interests has brought our country to the brink of great polarization and polarization.
Even the simplest issues of everyday politics can lead to confrontation and division.
Those in power, who by virtue of their position are obliged to ensure and preserve the unity and solidarity of our citizens, are also triggering social division for the sake of their own political interests.
Tension, confrontation and polarization in domestic politics are disrupting domestic peace and dragging our country towards an irreversible disaster.
The polarizing political language has made people unable to talk to their neighbors, relatives and friends based on their political preferences.
Even within the same family, political issues cannot be discussed calmly.
Our citizens are tired of polarization and tension.
All segments of society are seeking normalization and peace.
However, the existing polarization and polarization is deepened through television channels, newspaper pages and social media accounts that the government controls.
Politicians who demand and seek reconciliation have to face heavy accusations and are made the object of an intense lynch campaign.
As Saadet Party, we completely reject a political understanding that divides society into camps and any kind of rematchist approach.
We believe that the most important need of our country is embrace, reconciliation and normalization.
We aim for a Turkey where all citizens live in freedom and brotherhood.
We are committed to end all forms of polarization by embracing all our citizens.
b. We do not separate, we unite; we do not marginalize, we reconcile
As Saadet Party, we see each and every one of the 80 million children of the country as valuable.
We accept our differences not as a cause of conflict and division, but as a richness that colors our social fabric.
We aim for a Turkey where no citizen will be subjected to oppression and domination because of their ethnic and sectarian identity, world view, political preference and lifestyle, and where every segment of society will exist with its own identity.
We are committed to building a social ground where all segments of society can freely live together in peace and harmony.
c. We Favor Right, Not Force
To uphold right brings justice and happiness, and to uphold force brings oppression and disaster.
In Saadet Party's understanding of politics, the strong is not right, the right is strong.
Justice is the fundamental right of all citizens, not just a privileged elite.
We aim for a Turkey where the rule of law is supreme on the axis of rights and justice.
We are committed to restoring lost confidence in the justice system and fully realizing the independence of the judiciary.
d. We Base Service, Not Benefits
"Service to the people is service to God."
The purpose of politics in the Saadet Party, which adopts the understanding, is not to provide benefits to itself and its environment, but to serve the people.
We reject the understanding that transforms the services it provides into a means of rent-seeking for its own circle and legitimizes it.
We believe that we can serve without eating and eating rights.
We aim for a Turkey based on equality, justice and quality in service.
We are committed to be the servant of our nation, not the master of anyone.
2. Our Management Approach
a. Justice
Our understanding of governance is based on justice.
"The state stands with blasphemy, but not with oppression."
The survival of the state and the welfare of the nation are only possible with justice.
In the Saadet government, justice will be fully established and the rule of law will prevail.
The justice system will be free from any political influence.
b. Merit
The raison d'être of the state is to serve its citizens.
The duty of those entrusted with power is to use resources in the most efficient way to make public services more qualified and to ensure that they reach every individual.
Squandering resources and giving them to cronies is a betrayal of the nation's trust.
Failure to hire competent people leads to poor quality services, while partisanship means that a decision-making mechanism that is confined to the horizon of the public sector is always more likely to make mistakes.
The presence of different voices in state governance is not enmity or betrayal, but intellectual richness.
Strong opinions are needed to make sound decisions.
In Saadet government, all issues will be solved through consultation.
Different segments of society and those who do not think like us will also be listened to and their sensitivities will be taken into consideration.
Decisions on issues of national concern will be taken by social consensus.
The duty of bureaucrats, intellectuals, scholars, consultants and civil society representatives is not to endorse and impose on society every statement of the political authority, but to ensure that the rulers make correct and accurate decisions.
d. Morality
Honesty and integrity are our fundamental principles.
We take every step with a sense of responsibility.
We do not go beyond the limits set for us by law and morality.
In the Saadet government, torpil, nepotism, favoritism, nepotism and nepotism will be prevented in the state, and the understanding of prioritizing the favored will be ended.
Our citizens will not be forced to bend their necks in front of anyone in order to get a job or to get anything done, and they will not be forced to look for references at the doors of political parties.
Corruption and bribery will be eradicated.
The heaviest sanctions will be imposed on those who steal from the people's property and those who take advantage of the office given by the nation, and effective audit mechanisms will be put into practice.
Public resources will be prevented from being wasted with the logic of "no savings on reputation".
The budget is not allocated to areas for ostentatious consumption, but to production
and will be directed to investments that will increase employment.
e. Transparency and Audit
Transparency is one of the fundamental attributes of public administration in democratic systems.
In the interests of public security, all actions, except those that are confidential, should be publicly visible and known to citizens in terms of their process, results and costs.
Because those who govern are not the owners of authority, but the custodians of it.
Transparency and oversight is the most effective way to prevent corruption.
The basic principle is to inform the public about all actions and to monitor the process through effective mechanisms.
In Saadet government, transparency and accountability will be made indispensable in public administration.
None of our work will be done behind closed doors, hidden from the public.
No tender, contract, etc. will be left without the citizen's access to information.
Strong internal and external audit mechanisms will be established.
Audit reports will not be withheld from the nation and parliament.
Those who betray the trust of the people will not be divided into those who are with us and those who are not with us.
Any allegations of misconduct will be dealt with decisively.
f. Efficiency
When using public resources obtained with the taxes of our citizens, it is necessary to provide the maximum social benefit with the least cost.
At this point, it is important to correctly identify the needs and priorities of society.
Otherwise, the investments made will fall short of meeting the basic needs and expectations of society.
In Saadet government, the material and human resources of the public sector will be used effectively and efficiently.
The state's resources are used for production and
will be directed to employment.
Social needs and expectations will be prioritized with the participation of all stakeholders.
Social demands will be met urgently in order of importance.
g. Plan and Program
Acting in a planned and programmed manner in public administration not only prevents idle investments and waste of resources, but also enables the realization of works and investments in minimum time and cost.
It is therefore essential that those who hold executive power carry out their work in a planned manner.
It is important to have a serious preliminary preparation process and prepare feasibility reports before any investment starts.
Policies implemented on the basis of political and populist decisions taken on the spur of the moment also undermine the principle of continuity in the state.
Saadet government will work in a planned and programmed way.
Strategic plans will be made with the participation of experts in the field and institutions and organizations that are the addressees of the subject.
Comprehensive feasibility reports will be prepared before each investment.
Billions of pounds of our nation's money will be prevented from being spent on dead investments.
3. Our Vision for Turkey
Part One
a. We will establish peace and tranquility and normalize the country.
The first step for the normalization of our country will be the lifting of the state of emergency.
People who have been wrongfully victimized by the state of emergency will be compensated and their rights arising from the victimization will be restored.
All our citizens will be first class citizens under our rule.
No one will be subjected to discrimination and injustice because of their political opinion, ideology, language, belief, sect, gender, ethnicity or race.
The intolerance, hatred and violence prevailing in society will be eliminated along with its causes and consequences.
All forms of violence and exclusion against the poor, the disabled, women, children and the elderly, and attitudes and behaviors that violate human rights and the law, such as profiling, nepotism and discrimination in social life and public administration, will be decisively combated.
All kinds of actual, psychological and sexual harassment and attacks that have become widespread in society will be evaluated together with their causes and consequences and will be solved in a radical way.
In this context, the principle of law and the rule of law will not be allowed to be eviscerated and weakened for whatever motives.
The law will be restored and the presumption of innocence will be made valid for all our citizens as the most fundamental principle.
All segments of society will be listened to in order for peace, brotherhood and tranquility to prevail in society.
Together, we will build a Turkey where the pain of a brother in Edirne is heard by his brother in Hakkari, where a voice raised in Trabzon is heard in Antalya.
Our people will be made to feel again that the essence of security is mutual trust.
A society that feels safe will be built together with all our citizens.
Our problems will be discussed with all segments of society and our solutions will be discussed and decided transparently.
b. We will ensure the rule of law.
The fundamental criterion and determining factor in administration and will will will be law.
All our works and actions will be carried out within the framework of legal norms and principles.
The law will be given absolute sovereignty over all state organs.
In the Saadet government, no condition and conjuncture will legitimize the violation of the rules of law and universal principles of law.
Particularly in recent years, unrelated regulations have been combined into a single proposal/ bill text and enacted as "omnibus laws".
As a result of this practice, a number of negative consequences arise, such as the difficulty for the public to follow the legislative process, the decrease in the effectiveness of the regulations in parliamentary debates, and the increase in uncertainty about what the regulations aim to achieve.
In order to prevent all kinds of negativity and to ensure a healthy legislative activity, the Rules of Procedure will include precise provisions that will prevent the practice of omnibus legislation.
c. We will implement the principle of separation of powers in its full meaning.
With the new presidential system, the parliament's power of control over the executive has been taken away, and the judiciary, which is supposed to oversee the executive, has come under the influence of the executive.
As a result, the legislature and the judiciary have moved far away from fulfilling their expected roles of legislating for the public good and checking and balancing the executive.
The judiciary, on the other hand, is unable to uphold the principle of the rule of law, is polarized and politicized in its own right, and is ultimately under the influence of the executive.
Separation of powers will be one of the indispensable principles in Saadet government.
In order to secure the public interest, public interest, fundamental rights and freedoms of people
A system of separation of powers, which are separate from each other but which check and balance each other, will be established
d. We will establish a justice system free from influence and bias.
Today, the justice that needs to be established has become demanded.
Institutions that are supposed to dispense justice have become centers of victimization.
No ideological commitment, no conjuncture can override the rule of law.
A justice mechanism that acts and decides on instructions is the biggest mistake that leads the country to disaster.
Unfortunately, the impartiality of the judiciary in Turkey has been compromised.
The politicization of the judiciary is a vital problem for our country.
The HSK (Council of Judges and Prosecutors), which was insufficient in terms of its impartiality, has completely lost its impartiality and independence with the April 16 Referendum.
With the politicization of the judiciary, the fact that judges and prosecutors do not act impartially and independently in their decisions hurts the public conscience, and the state and the nation are turned against each other.
Another fundamental issue in the judiciary is the slow functioning of the judiciary, particularly due to heavy and often unnecessary workloads, in addition to problems in the legislation.
People are forced to seek extra-legal remedies because of the slow administration of justice.
It must be known that justice delayed is not justice.
Saadet in power;
There will be judicial reform.
Judicial reform will be implemented by taking into account the opinions, suggestions, demands and complaints of citizens, bar associations and courts.
Within the framework of structural reforms, politics and the executive will no longer be able to interfere in the judiciary, and the path to the politicization of the judiciary will be closed for good.
Judicial independence and impartiality will be fully established.
Necessary arrangements will be made in procedural laws for the speedy administration of justice.
Reconciliation and mediation will be encouraged in order to reduce the volume of cases before the courts, and efforts will be made to popularize the arbitration board for private law cases.
Prosecutors and judges will be structurally and institutionally separated, and the positions of prosecutors and lawyers performing the functions of prosecution and defense will be equalized.
Thus, the function of the defense will be enhanced and the defense will be put on an equal footing with prosecutors in trials.
Obstacles preventing lawyers from accessing and collecting evidence will be removed.
The budget share allocated to the judiciary will be increased and staffing problems will be solved.
Emphasis will be given to the on-the-job training of judges and prosecutors and their specialization in their professions will be encouraged.
Courts of appeal will be made to operate effectively.
"Specialized Human Rights Courts" will be established to deal with human rights violations.
The CJP will be divided into the Council of Judges (HC) and the Council of Prosecutors (SC).
Arrangements will be made to increase the prestige of members of the judiciary and lawyers.
e. We will Guarantee Fundamental Rights and Freedoms.
i. Freedom of Thought and Expression
The criterion for an idea or thought to be expressible is not reasonableness, but the absence of insult and violence.
A government does not have the right to restrict the expression of opinions it does not like and to punish those who hold such opinions.
All obstacles to freedom of thought and expression will be removed.
ii. Freedom of the Press
Freedom of the press cannot be understood only as the establishment of the public's freedom of information.
It is also important to ensure the public's freedom to receive news from accurate and diverse sources.
Against the government, which owns all of the central media, the opposition has no chance to convey its voice and words to the public.
To this end, the media's power and interest relationship with the government will be ended and the media will be put at the service of the people, not the government.
In order to guarantee the right and freedom of the public to receive information and to ensure a transparent and accountable administration, it will be ensured that the media, especially radio, television and newspapers, are objective and impartial, and that media owners operate only in media-related fields.
Public broadcasting organizations, which, despite being financed by the taxes of all members of our nation, have turned into propaganda tools of the governments on the public, will be transformed into institutions working for the public good in the true sense.
It will be ensured that these communication organizations act in a way to inform the whole society and the public.
Working and living conditions of media workers will be improved.
The rights of imprisoned journalists and journalists under judicial pressure who have not actually committed any crime will be protected.
iii. Strengthening Civil Society
Civil society has an important role in monitoring the state and public actors, forming public opinion, informing and raising awareness, and increasing social solidarity.
In a sense, a strong civil society is the foundation of a just politics.
Where civil society and social initiative are weakened, politics loses touch with the people.
Therefore, the effectiveness of civil society is indispensable for democracy.
A more enabling environment will be created for CSOs that strengthen participatory and democratic processes by involving all segments in the development process, which plays an important role in social integration and cooperation.
The potential of CSOs to provide services and solutions to local and national needs and problems will be increased and they will be encouraged to play a greater role in social and economic life.
Regulations that will make civil society participation in the legislative process in parliament mandatory will be included in the TGNA Rules of Procedure.
Tax incentives for financial support to CSOs by real and legal persons will be reviewed and improved.
CSOs and universities will be enabled to contribute more to policy formulation and implementation processes at the local level.
f. We will democratize politics and socialize democracy.
The 10 percent election threshold will be abolished.
The electoral system will be brought in line with social justice and the expectations of our nation.
It will be ensured that state aid to political parties will be allocated fairly according to the percentage of votes received without any discrimination between the parties participating in the elections.
The financing of politics will be made transparent, and all necessary legal arrangements in this direction will be realized urgently.
Necessary measures will be taken to ensure that no authority can make uncontrolled and unaccountable public expenditures during the election period.
Legal arrangements will be made to prevent the use of public resources by political parties during election campaigns.
Important laws that will make the referendum institution more operational will be submitted to the approval of our nation.
In particular, legal amendments to be made in the field of fundamental rights and freedoms will be allowed to be submitted to referendum with the signatures of a certain number of MPs.
All information infrastructure, including e-government, will be utilized to ensure that the referendum is held safely, easily and quickly.
Obstacles preventing citizens and civil servants, except members of the security and judiciary, from becoming members of political parties will be removed.
The immunity of parliamentarians from impunity of the rostrum, which covers their speeches and activities related to their duties under the roof of the Parliament, will be carefully protected.
It will pave the way for our citizens to propose laws.
With 100,000 signatures on issues whose conditions and framework will be determined in the Constitution, citizens will be allowed to submit a bill to the TBMM through the "Petition Commission" to be discussed on issues that concern them.
g. We will solve the Kurdish Issue on the Axis of Rights and Justice.
Our geography has a quality that has existed for centuries with the richness of different cultures.
These lands have been home to different civilizations and have given their people the virtue of living together under the same roof with different beliefs, ethnic and sectarian structures.
Our country is still in a structure that embodies this richness.
There is a high level of harmony and strong cohesion between ethnic groups in terms of both faith and culture.
Kurds and Turks are members of the same religion, children of a common history, colors of the same culture and sons of the same homeland.
Turks and Kurds are like parts of one body.
In fact, Turks do not have a Kurdish problem and Kurds do not have a Turkish problem.
The problem is not with our nation.
The problem lies in all kinds of racist approaches and policies that seek to divide and separate this nation.
The two world wars caused significant changes in political regimes and societies, and as a result, our geography was dragged into new conflicts.
This situation has destroyed all common bonds such as faith, history and culture, and caused our differences, which are our richness, to be shaped through conflict and fighting.
In this respect, an ideologically confrontational, separatist and otherizing worldview has become dominant in our geography.
It was assumed that oppression and force would overcome the problems and ensure integration in the social structure.
As a result of this mentality, social integration has not been achieved sufficiently and economic development efforts in Eastern and Southeastern Anatolia have largely failed.
The socio-economic backwardness of the eastern regions has led to the development problem.
This situation has led to the emergence of the terrorist problem, which has affected the last 34 years of our country, and the failure to resolve it in a timely manner has caused it to grow.
The "Kurdish Question" emerged and deepened as a result of such a difficult process and historical course.
Turkey is at a historic turning point in the resolution of the Kurdish Question.
The resolution of this issue is of great importance for our country and the region.
Because the developments on our borders will cause us to become a target open to all kinds of external manipulation when we cannot solve our problems internally.
As a matter of fact, while the territorial integrity of our neighbors has been disrupted and state authority has been lost in Iraq and Syria, the ambitions and moves of imperialist powers and countries in the region continue.
It is right and justice that the Kurdish Question has not been resolved,
morality,
economy,
education,
It is the common result of misunderstanding and negligence in many areas such as security.
Therefore, it will not be possible to reach a solution to the Kurdish Question without addressing the flaws in all of its components.
The solution to be produced simultaneously with the security-oriented struggle
social,
political, psychological,
reforms in economic and other areas.
For this, Turkey has developed a holistic policy and ensured its own internal peace,
has completed its economic development,
democracy and
fully practiced human rights,
must be a great and powerful country.
At this point, in our country, everyone is entitled to equal political, social and cultural rights.
by emphasizing a new understanding of the rule of law
A ground of brotherhood based on voluntary unity must be built.
All polarizations built on divisions in society must be eliminated and a Turkey where differences can live in prosperity with their own colors must be established.
In the Saadet government, the Kurdish Issue will be solved on the axis of rights and justice and three basic steps will be taken for this:
i. Fundamental Human Rights and Justice
A broad social consensus, embraced by all of our citizens, guaranteeing human rights,
A new constitution centered on rights and justice will be prepared.
Basic human rights will be delivered to all our citizens, regardless of their faith, race or sect, without any bargaining.
The obstacles to mother tongue education and the use of mother tongue will be removed and these rights will be constitutionally guaranteed.
Freedom of expression will be expanded to allow the free expression of any dissenting opinion as long as it is non-violent.
If there are any allegations against MPs and mayors elected with the votes of the people, they will be dealt with in accordance with the rule of law.
Necessary legal arrangements will be made to ensure that MPs and mayors who are accused of crimes against them are tried without arrest unless there is a final judgment by a court decision.
The appointment of trustees to replace mayors who have been suspended due to investigations launched against some mayors will end and new mayors will be elected by members of parliament or through elections.
It will specify how long the trustees currently appointed to municipalities will serve and where and how their term will end.
by ensuring transparent governance and accountability.
Local and decentralized governments will be strengthened
ii. Economy and Development
Special development programs will be prepared for the Eastern and Southeastern Anatolia regions and will be rigorously implemented with the coordination of public institutions.
Policies that will prevent unemployment and increase employment will be implemented.
Incentive and support packages that are feasible and result-oriented will be implemented.
When necessary, investments will be made in the region by the state and the economy of the region will be revitalized.
Strategic industrial moves will be planned especially in Eastern and Southeastern Anatolia.
Agriculture and animal husbandry, the region's main source of livelihood, will be revitalized.
In order to develop the region, political, social and commercial relations between Turkey, Iran, Iraq and Syria will be further developed.
Policies to ensure the return of our citizens who had to migrate from their villages will be accelerated.
Financial resources will be transferred in the form of project incentives instead of social aids that lead people to inertia.
The damages of tradesmen and citizens who have suffered losses due to the clashes will be compensated immediately.
A tourism push will be made in the Eastern and Southeastern Anatolia regions.
iii. Internal Peace and Security
First of all, a holistic and comprehensive understanding and policy style covering all areas will be put forward to stop the bloodshed and end the violence.
An effective consultation process will be initiated to openly discuss proposals and suggestions for resolving the issue.
In this regard, a platform will be established to which all political parties, NGOs, media organizations, opinion leaders and influential individuals will contribute.
In order to equip our generations materially and spiritually, an education model will be developed and implemented based on the core values and civilization perspective of our nation, away from all kinds of discrimination and monopolism, taking into account all the richness of our geography.
The official status of madrasas, which play an important role in the social, scientific and spiritual development of the region, will be reviewed and their graduates will be integrated into the theological education system.
Public order and security will not be compromised under any circumstances.
The state will ensure full territorial control and prevent different organizations from dominating and oppressing the people of the region.
Necessary measures will be taken to ensure that the negative language, style, attitude and behavior of security forces, especially at checkpoints, do not negatively affect the view of the people of the region towards the state.
Incentive practices to increase the employment of qualified public personnel in the region and the duration of their stay in the region will be implemented.
Necessary arrangements will be made to send qualified and experienced teachers and public officials to the region.
People who have not been involved in crimes within the terrorist organization will be given the opportunity to return.
Necessary legal arrangements will be made in this context.
Foreign agents who look for opportunities to provoke and try to act in the region under different identities will never be allowed to operate.
We will review our alliance relations with Western states that have ambitions in the region, carry out activities towards these ambitions, and in this context, do not hesitate to provide all kinds of assistance to terrorist organizations in order to destabilize the region.
Part Two
a. We will establish an economic system that produces, grows by developing and is based on equitable sharing.
Despite all the blessings that Allah Almighty has given to our country, the current economic situation of our country is heartbreaking.
The national income per capita in our country, which is artificially high in dollar terms, is far behind that of economically developed countries.
Unemployment
and inequality in income distribution is increasing year by year.
Domestic and foreign debt is increasing, and principal and interest payments are met by borrowing again.
Our country's total debt, the sum of the external debt of the public and private sectors and the domestic debt of the public sector, reached USD 616.7 billion at the end of 2017.
The debts of our companies and citizens amount to hundreds of billions of TL.
A significant portion of the taxes collected goes to interest payments.
Every year the state pays more than 70 billion TL in interest from the budget.
As a result, even though we are a nation and a country with fertile soil, hardworking people and a young population, our people are unemployed,
enslaved to debt.
A country whose foreign trade deficit and, accordingly, current account deficit are constantly increasing year by year, and whose budget is constantly in deficit,
no serious investment in production
and in a country where these deficits can only be covered by selling off plant and land or by borrowing again, it can only be the result of willful ignorance to claim that the economy is on track.
The name of this economy is rent economy.
Through taxes, hikes, interest, low wages and low base prices, the people are being stripped of all their means.
Through fluctuations in exchange rates, interest rates and inflation, people's means are transferred to internal and external exploitation groups.
Due to wrong investment policies, corruption and waste, there is no "Balanced Budget" and the budget deficit is tried to be met by new borrowing.
As a result of years of faulty investment policies, high value-added industry and high-tech goods are not produced.
Since this is not done, national production and exports do not increase at the desired rate, resulting in a
widening foreign trade deficit and a large current account deficit.
As a result of meeting the growing current account deficit with hot money, the economy becomes vulnerable to foreign interventions and is constantly exposed to the threat of crisis.
Rising unemployment leads to a decline in wages, and unemployment and low-paid informal employment
push income inequality to intolerable levels, thus increasing the risk of social explosion.
Under the name of privatization, national institutions created with the savings of the nation have been shamelessly sold to foreign and domestic monopolies.
As a result, all our savings, including the facilities that are the backbone of the national economy and the sectors related to our security and defense, have been taken out of the hands of our nation.
In the rentier economy, other methods and means are also used to transfer the country's resources to the rentier group.
These are: Privatization, leasing and
tender corruption,
Waste and idle investments,
State investments spread over too many years.
The vicious circle of Turkey's economy is the abandonment of the industrialization policy, the
abolition of support for agriculture and livestock breeding, the
sale of our industrial facilities under the name of privatization and the closure of these facilities.
As a result, Turkey has been unable to realize the production of high-tech industrial products.
Therefore, it is a country with a foreign trade deficit and thus a current account deficit due to increased imports.
To summarize the state of the Turkish economy; Gross Domestic Product per Capita: Since 2008, the national income per capita has generally been around 10,000 dollars, although it has fallen below 10,000 dollars in some years.
In 2017, it even went backwards compared to 2016.
Growth Rates: The Turkish economy has grown by an average of 4.7% over the last 15 years.
Considering that Turkey has grown by 5% on average throughout the history of the Republic, it can be said that the growth rate of our country in recent years is not sufficient.
Income Distribution: The distribution of national income is inequitable.
For example, in 2015, the 20% with the lowest share of national income received 6.11% of national income, while the 20% with the highest share received 46.5% of national income.
There is a 7.6-fold difference between the two cuts.
Unemployment: Unemployment rose from 6.8% in 1997 to 14.0% in 2009.
In 2016 and 2017, unemployment remained at 10.9% despite all measures taken.
Domestic and External Debt: In 2017, 15 years later, the sum of domestic and foreign debts, which was 232 billion dollars in 2002, increased to 616 billion dollars.
In 15 years, our country's debt (domestic debt + foreign debt) has increased by 165%.
Yes, the debt increased from 232 billion dollars throughout the history of the Republic to 616 billion dollars in 15 years.
Interest Rates: Our people pay the highest interest rates in the world.
The interest rate in the bond market has been around 14-14.5% in recent months.
Commercial interest rates charged by banks have risen above 20%.
There are 2.6 million citizens who cannot pay their credit card debts.
Interest Payments: In the last 15 years (2002-2017), 758 billion TL was paid from the budget for interest.
Interest payments in 2017 alone amounted to 56.7 billion TL.
Inflation: 8.53% in 2016 and 11.92% in 2017.
As such, Turkey has one of the highest inflation rates (CPI) among OECD countries.
Exchange Rate: For the last 13 years, there has been a remarkable level of uncertainty over the exchange rate, particularly the dollar and the euro.
Current Account Deficit: The average current account deficit for the last 5 years has been 6% of GDP.
In 2014, the current account deficit was 46 billion dollars.
In 2016, the current account deficit decreased to 33 billion dollars and increased to 47 billion dollars in 2017.
The foreign trade deficit, the difference between exports and imports, which was 56 billion dollars in 2016, increased to 76 billion dollars in 2017.
Privatization: The total revenue from privatizations between 1986 and 2017 was $71.2 billion.
Of this, USD 8.2 billion was realized between 1986-2003 and the remaining USD 63 billion between 2003-2017.
Revenues from privatization were used for debt and interest payments, not for factory construction.
Objectives;
We will implement production mobilization.
We will create an investment atmosphere with the support of enterprising manpower.
We will make every effort to solve the unemployment problem completely.
We will make inflation a non-issue.
We will strengthen and stabilize the value of the Turkish lira.
We will eliminate interest and its negative effects that burden the economy and make the rich richer and the poor poorer.
We will pay off domestic and foreign debts according to a plan and get rid of the debt that has become a yoke.
We will have a balanced budget.
Saadet in power;
The economy will be built on development by strengthening production and especially industrial production.
Policies that will ensure the welfare of our beloved nation by establishing justice in income distribution will be implemented.
Unemployment in Turkey,
development
and the problem of external dependence will be solved by industrializing and becoming a society that produces knowledge and technology.
Within the scope of tax and expenditure policies, every unit of the state will be made transparent and the principle of accountability will be established.
In this way, the state will be constantly accountable to the public for its work.
The current unfair tax system will be revised and the unfair taxes that producers and consumers have to pay will be reorganized on the basis of rights and justice.
Master plans and strategies on key sectors, regional development and thematic areas will be developed.
With the effective coordination of development agencies, development plans and implementations based on them will be qualified to determine investment priorities at the regional level.
Different industrial policies will be implemented in provinces according to their existing capabilities and potentials, and these policies will be developed on a district basis through clustering.
Public expenditures will be limited, efficiency will be increased and savings will be achieved in current expenditures in the public sector, privatizations will be handled in this context and productive investments will be supported.
For the Turkish economy, reducing the current account deficit, bringing inflation down to reasonable levels and maintaining fiscal discipline,
Structural reforms to increase industrial production capacity and value added will be accelerated.
Due to the acceleration of urbanization, the connection between the city and production centers will be handled with a new understanding.
Development cooperation programs will be developed with neighboring and nearby countries in line with Turkey's national strategies, foreign policy objectives, regional and global priorities.
b. We will develop agriculture and animal husbandry.
In our country, agricultural land is misused.
Residential areas and industrial areas take the first place in this use.
By determining the selection criteria of these areas well, the misuse of fertile soils and first class agricultural areas will be prevented and our soils will be utilized at the maximum level.
Our soils, climate, plant diversity, water potential and trained manpower are our greatest resources.
The agricultural sector is an indispensable sector and of strategic importance for the balanced and adequate nutrition of the people of the country and to meet the food needs of our nation with domestic resources.
As a result of the wrong agricultural policies implemented in recent years, our lands have been reduced to a situation where they cannot feed the population living in our country.
While agriculture in our country was self-sufficient until yesterday, today our imports of agricultural products have surpassed our exports.
It is important to overcome the ongoing productivity problems in the agricultural sector and to employ the idle labor force in more productive sectors of the economy.
In the Saadet government, agriculture and animal husbandry will be declared as a strategic sector and the following issues will be realized rapidly: Agricultural production; crop production and animal production complement each other.
Production in both areas will be handled together and both farmers engaged in plant production and breeders and breeders engaged in animal production will be supported.
The misuse of agricultural land will be prevented.
First-degree agricultural areas will never be zoned for development when city zoning plans are made.
Detailed soil surveys will be conducted and a country-wide land use plan will be prepared.
The way to empower producers and increase production is through cooperatives.
Cooperatives in agricultural products will be strengthened and cooperatives will be restructured for this purpose.
Agricultural credit cooperatives and cooperatives engaged in agriculture and animal husbandry will be supported.
The use of new technologies in agriculture will be expanded.
Agriculture-industry cooperation and integration will be increased.
Irrigation and drainage services of irrigable agricultural lands will be completed rapidly.
All 8.5 million hectares of technically and economically irrigable agricultural land will be irrigated as soon as possible.
The GAP (Southeastern Anatolia Project) and KOP (Konya Plain Project), which have been under construction for years, will be completed as soon as possible.
Irrigation methods that reduce water loss and protect the soil will be implemented.
Priority will be given to projects and investments necessary for the utilization of our underground and surface water resources in agriculture.
Organic agriculture will be promoted and supported.
Local production of all kinds of seeds will be encouraged.
Seed development and conservation institutes will be established to prevent foreign dependency in seed production and the production of organic products will be encouraged.
The main added value in the seed sector is in the production of hybrid vegetable seeds.
Turkey is not at the desired level in seed production.
Seed production is monopolized by foreign seed companies.
Local seed companies will be supported by the state against foreign competition.
Inspections will be increased and the production and import of GMO products will not be allowed.
Agricultural subsidies will be based on inputs and products, and subsidies will be increased to an adequate level.
Practices, quotas and limitations imposed by the EU that negatively affect our agriculture and animal husbandry will be reorganized in accordance with our national interests.
Agriculture and animal husbandry will be subject to special protection and support as a "Strategic Sector".
R&D studies on this subject will be expanded and supported.
With the support to be given to the agricultural sector, excess supply will be created in plant and animal production in our country, and with a correct marketing strategy that includes future projections, our country will become an exporter as it used to be.
Sugar factories, which are the most important element of the agricultural industry, will be removed from the scope of privatization and the sugar sector will be restructured with a focus on exports as well as the country's needs.
Product-based policies will be developed for strategic products such as hazelnuts, tea, tobacco, olives, cotton, beets and fresh vegetables.
Special attention will be paid to ensure that agricultural products such as pistachios, hazelnuts, grapes, apricots, figs, citrus fruits, walnuts, cotton and olives, which have become Turkey's trademarks, receive the value they deserve, and vegetable and fruit production will be supported with the same approach.
University-farmer cooperation will be ensured, and training in agriculture will be made continuous, especially by taking into account the demands of producers and their work situation.
Pastures and grasslands will be improved, and farmers will benefit from pastures and grasslands free of charge.
Pastures and grasslands will not be used for other purposes.
In order to develop the agricultural sector, reliable agricultural data will be provided, product marketing infrastructure will be improved and land fragmentation will be reduced.
Instead of imports, which is a short-term solution in the field of animal husbandry, domestic production will be developed in a sustainable manner.
Livestock support subjects and support amounts will be planned to cover medium and long periods.
We will prioritize rural development.
Employment areas that will provide the basis for regional development will be created in rural areas.
Working and transportation conditions of seasonal agricultural workers will be improved.
The role of intermediaries will be reduced and producers and consumers will be protected.
In the marketing of agricultural products, producers cannot market their products at the value they deserve due to the lack of stock exchanges in some products and the fact that most of the existing stock exchanges are far from their real functions.
Since most of our products with export value do not have a stock exchange, unbalanced increases and decreases in prices occur.
With the product exchanges to be established, the prices of agricultural products will be stabilized and producer victimization will be prevented.
c. We will make state contribution and private sector incentives in industry realistic and fair.
Saadet in power;
Decent work opportunities are provided and the quality of the labor force is improved
and an entrepreneurship ecosystem where technological changes are transformed into opportunities will be created.
An international direct investment strategy will be prepared to direct international investments to areas with higher productivity growth opportunities.
OIZ capacities will be improved to better serve entrepreneurs and their new generation integration with research centers will be ensured.
Priority investment areas that will support the innovative and productive investments of the private sector and improve the quality of life of our citizens will be directed.
University-industry collaborations will be increased on strategic issues such as increasing domestic added value and clustering.
d. Development Plans will not come down from the top, but will be determined from the bottom up through participatory means.
In recent years, Turkey has completely abandoned the planned work system.
This caused the economy to spiral out of control.
Many of the problems we face today stem from this.
Saadet in power;
Short, medium and long term development plans will be prepared carefully and these plans will be renewed according to changing and developing conditions.
The development plans prepared will focus on realizing the main objectives, while other variables will be continuously addressed periodically and the objectives will be shaped.
Instead of policies that concentrate on a certain area, which is common in development, policies that spread across the whole country in a measured manner will be preferred.
As a result of the erroneous policies implemented so far, the Marmara Region, and especially Istanbul and its surroundings, is the most dense region of Turkey in terms of industry and services.
While this situation has triggered internal migration, it has also led to social explosions
and the emergence of urban rent.
During our administration, sectoral and regional planning will be carried out to ensure widespread, effective and rapid development.
e. We will prioritize R&D and Innovation.
Implementation of science, technology and innovation policies in a complementary manner with other policies, particularly education, industry and regional policies, and the provision of services in addition to the industrial sector
and increase added value in the agricultural sectors,
innovative entrepreneurship and the mobilization of regional potential.
Priority will be given to using public infrastructure investments as a support element to encourage investments involving strategic technologies for Turkey.
The imbalance in the regional distribution of the manufacturing industry will be eliminated, and production capacity will be increased in regions other than the Marmara Region in order to utilize Turkey's potential.
Special programs will be implemented to eliminate the development imbalance between regions.
In the manufacturing industry; modern technology production will be developed and its use will be rapidly expanded.
Qualified labor force will be trained.
Production capability in high value-added products will be increased.
Investments will be made in newly developing sectors.
Production and management structures of SMEs will be improved.
New industrial estates will be established for medium-sized SMEs.
Incentives; production,
employment and
will be used to boost exports.
The state will both invest publicly and support private sector companies investing in the following new key technologies.
The use and export of advanced technology products produced by our country's industrialists in the domestic market will be supported.
In this context, production costs will be reduced thanks to the qualitative transformation plan that supports the innovative and competitive development of production.
New production capacities will be created by increasing the share of national income allocated to R&D.
An incentive mechanism will be designed for entrepreneurs who can appeal to global markets in terms of products, services, marketing and business models.
The manufacturing industry will be transformed into a higher value-added structure with a focus on technology, design and branding.
More R&D will be implemented in the fields of information and communication technologies, biotechnology and gene technologies, nanotechnology, mechatronics, production processes and technologies, material technologies, energy and environmental technologies, and design technologies.
f. We will invest in High Technology.
Global opportunities will be monitored and steps towards innovation and firm skills, cross-sectoral integration and external market diversification, which are the main foci of transformation, will be meticulously pursued.
A high value-added investment cycle will be created to contribute to our country's high competitiveness on a global scale with technology-intensive products.
Leaps will be made with technology start-ups that will trigger transformation in areas such as artificial intelligence, robotic technologies, smart production systems and the Internet of Things.
Data-based applications will be emphasized with the fourth industrial revolution that emerged as a result of rapid developments in areas such as big data and cloud computing.
Turkey's ability to use 21st century tools will be increased through policies, strategies and actions related to the transformation process of Turkey into an information society.
g. We will End Foreign Dependence on Energy.
Based on resource diversification in energy supply, domestic and renewable energy resources will be utilized to the maximum extent possible.
Emphasis will be given to practices that envisage the use of nuclear technology in electricity generation and reduce the energy intensity of the economy with renewable resources.
Stopping waste and minimizing the environmental impact of energy
By establishing a competitive energy program, reducing external dependence on energy and meeting the need for raw materials in industry will be supported.
Technology development and domestic production will be encouraged through public procurement.
"Structural Transformation Programs in Energy" will be implemented in energy production based on domestic resources and strategic sectors.
h. We Will Realize the Mining Breakthrough.
Mining and raw material exploration investments that support industrial production will be supported.
Mining infrastructure investments that will increase technological capacity and capabilities will be accelerated.
Metallurgical investments in strategic areas such as aluminum flat products, steel and integrated mining will be accelerated.
i. We will make domestic production dominant in the defense industry.
In order to increase the capabilities and capabilities of the defense industry sector, the growth and development of the sector and the development of capabilities in the field of security will be ensured.
It will be ensured that Turkey works in coordination with all its stakeholders in the steps it will take towards its goal of becoming a global player with technological superiority and a voice in the defense industry.
Priority will be given to establishing an appropriate balance between subsystem/component development needs arising from the requirements of main projects and long-term advanced technology acquisition efforts.
j. We will Improve Foreign Trade and Customs Practices.
Turkey will become a country that produces and can market what it produces at home and abroad.
Economic management will focus on production from A to Z, and resources will be directed to production in the most efficient way.
With the increase in production capacity, the goods and services produced will become cheaper and our competitiveness in foreign markets will increase.
The effectiveness of our foreign trade attachés abroad will be increased and these attachés will be made to work like "Foreign Trade Agencies".
Customs legislation will be simplified and made transparent.
The quality of customs services will be improved, accelerated and activated.
Taxes on inputs used in the production of domestic and high-tech goods will be reduced.
k. We will be a Solution Partner for Tradesmen and Craftsmen and SMEs through Coordination and Planning Centers.
The service sector plays an important role in maintaining and improving the competitiveness of the economy.
Our tradesmen and artisans, who are the backbone of our social existence and who mobilize all their capital and labor for halal earnings and work day and night, are the lifeblood of our economy.
It is important to increase the share of high value-added areas in the services sector and to expand the use of information and communication technologies.
SMEs still need to increase productivity, grow and institutionalize in order to increase competitiveness in the economy, develop innovation and entrepreneurship and create employment.
SMEs, which are predominantly composed of craftsmen and artisans, account for 99.9% of total enterprises in terms of number of employees, 76% of employment, 54% of value added, 50% of investments and 56% of production.
However, SMEs need to be strengthened in terms of keeping up with the high competition arising from globalization, having sufficient capital, producing innovative projects, and developing joint business and projects.
Saadet in power;
Regulations will be made for shopping centers (Malls) rising unplanned in cities.
Necessary steps will be taken to protect artisans.
The Incentive Law will be reorganized and support will be given to investments that provide import substitution and have export potential, and especially to SMEs.
Tradesmen and artisans who carry out major economic activities will be supported in proportion to the added value they produce and their employment.
Large investors and producers will become locomotives for SMEs.
Cooperatives, which are important in terms of their positive contribution to the culture of joint business, capital accumulation and income distribution, will be developed.
Chambers of commerce and industry will be encouraged to produce more effective and efficient projects for tradesmen and SMEs.
Efficient and effective investment and production models will be developed by establishing Coordination and Planning Centers.
l. We will free our country from the burden of debt and interest.
First of all, the economic program, which is the main cause of domestic and foreign borrowing, will be changed and a "Fair Economic Order" will be established instead.
Thus, the basis of the economy will be production, not rent.
Resources will be directed to high value-added investments, and with the production mobilization, debts will be paid off by increasing production, not by borrowing again.
Debt management will be handled within the framework of certain rules and carried out in a disciplined manner.
Arbitrary borrowing by the public and municipalities will be prevented.
Criteria will be set for public borrowing and a system will be established in which the public will know why and how the state borrows.
By the end of 2017, the central government's domestic debt, which reached 535 billion TL, will be zeroed out, partly through the write-off of public debts to the public, and partly through gradual repayment through Central Bank resources within a long-term plan.
m. We will prevent unemployment and increase employment.
Working humanely, working for humanity brings abundance, prosperity, peace and happiness.
We address employment in all its economic, social, cultural and psychological dimensions.
Health for every step towards employment,
security,
Education
and justice will significantly reduce the burden on the judiciary.
Unemployment is not only an economic but also a social problem as it directly affects the individual, his/her family and environment and directly threatens social peace.
The problem of unemployment is not a natural disaster.
Limiting production,
It is a man-made problem produced by wrong policies that lead to inequitable distribution.
Employment is a sub-component of production.
When production increases,
employment will increase accordingly.
If people are employed,
they produce more than they consume under normal conditions.
If part of the value produced is consumed and the unconsumed part is saved and invested, new jobs are created and new
tools and equipment are discovered and developed to increase the productivity of labor.
Human labor is potential wealth that cannot be stored.
Therefore, it must be used in a timely manner.
Finding work for the unemployed enriches both the worker and the country.
In addition, since it is a socio-economic variable, eliminating the problem of unemployment makes society more livable.
The size of the resources transferred to employers through insurance premium incentives, which first emerged under the current government, is told as a success story.
These incentives were introduced to increase employment and reduce unemployment.
However, despite the transfer of nearly 100 billion in nominal terms, the unemployment rate today stands at 10.8% according to the latest data released by the Turkish Statistical Institute (TurkStat), lower than the 10.3% in 2002.
Moreover, within the framework of harmonization with international organizations regarding these figures, parameter changes were made in the data announced by TurkStat.
In other words, according to today's parameters, the unemployment rate in 2002 was lower than 10.3.
Unemployment in Turkey has become chronic.
Worse still, the rate of qualified unemployed university graduates has increased.
The real unemployment rate is hidden by the hocus pocus in the unemployment calculation.
While the labor force participation rate in European countries is around 70%, in Turkey it is around 50%, while the unemployment rate is shown as 10.3%, hiding the unemployment rate, which is actually around 20-25%.
In addition, the highest proportion of unemployed is young unemployed.
This unfavorable picture of unemployment rates comes despite the boasted growth records in the economy.
This shows that the nearly 100 billion resources transferred have no relation with production and thus employment.
A significant part of these incentives are covered by the unemployment insurance fund, which is the right of workers, and the rest by the treasury, that is, by resources allocated from collected taxes.
Premium incentives that have no effect on employment and burden citizens through unemployment insurance premiums and taxes serve no purpose other than enriching capital owners.
Employers benefit from incentives based on the number of employees employed during the incentive period, and employees may become unemployed at the end of the incentive period.
With the wage increase for workers, civil servants and pensioners and raising the minimum wage above the poverty line with a certain planning, the incomes of our citizens will increase, this will affect other business areas and unemployment will decrease with increasing total demand.
Saadet in power;
By removing all employment incentives that have no effect on employment and replacing them with productive incentives focused on production, we will both contribute to the country's production and development and increase employment permanently.
The era of 300-year-old outdated theories to lull the public to sleep is over.
Just as the proposition that the state is absolutely inefficient is wrong, both the experience of the world and the recent history of our country have shown us that production left entirely to the private sector cannot increase employment.
Economic progress can be achieved through the cooperation of a state governed by meritorious hands and the private sector determined by fair regulations based on law, and the employment problem can be solved radically.
Projects that will bring the potential energy and productivity of our people from potential to actuality will be implemented without wasting any time.
A society and a country where there is not a single unemployed person will be built.
All the energy, knowledge, experience and power of our country will be directed towards production.
Employment credits and tax reductions will be provided.
The number of workers employed will be an important factor in the criteria for benefiting from government subsidies and loans.
Hence, whichever firm employs more people will be able to access credit in proportion to the number of people it employs.
Labor force training will be supported.
"Unemployment Fund" will be transformed into "Job Acquisition Fund".
On-site employment of labor force will be ensured by developing alternative employment opportunities in rural areas and monitoring active employment policies.
With private sector-state cooperation in investments, there will be no idle resources left in Turkey that are not directed to production.
n. We Will Prevent Poverty.
Deprivation and social exclusion as a consequence of poverty lead to inequality for the poor not only in terms of income distribution but also in terms of social, political and cultural opportunities.
In this sense, we see poverty with its causes and consequences not only as an economic problem, but also as a social, cultural and moral problem.
Our people will be liberated from mismanagement and poverty.
A new economic model centered on justice will be built for the establishment of a comprehensive social safety net of "Full Employment" and the elimination of social poverty.
Production and sharing will be based on justice instead of exploitation and rent.
In order for those with bank loans and credit card debts to be able to pay their debts easily, debts will be paid over many years without increasing interest rates, and our citizens will be saved from the hands of banks and debt swamp.
o. We Will Ensure Tax Justice.
Although the Constitution states that "Everyone is obliged to pay taxes according to their financial capacity to cover public expenditures", governments spend irresponsibly.
As a result, government revenues fail to cover expenditures and the budget runs a deficit.
In this case, the state is resorting to increasing taxes.
The injustice between the rich and the poor has steadily increased due to the 50 taxes, most of which are levied on low-income citizens and working people, with rates as high as 160%.
As a result, taxes levied to meet public expenditures have gone from being a duty for citizens to a form of persecution.
According to the 2018 budget law, 89% of budget revenues are tax revenues, while 69% of tax revenues (OECD average 33%) are indirect taxes such as VAT and SCT, which are the main cause of tax injustice.
Although 8 of the top ten taxpayers in 2016 were banks, the ratio of their tax payments to total tax revenues was 1%.
Saadet in power;
The distorted and unfair tax system will be radically reformed.
Fair tax policies will be implemented and citizens will not be oppressed under heavy tax burden.
Through effective tax audits, the informal economy will be eliminated and government revenues will be increased.
The tax rates of institutions operating in the banking and finance sector, which do not contribute to the production economy and earn easy money on the backs of citizens, will be increased and improvements will be made in favor of production companies.
The minimum wage will be higher than the hunger threshold and the minimum wage will not be taxed.
High tax rates on fuel will be reduced.
Tax legislation will be made responsive to today's economic developments. For this purpose, all tax laws will be redrafted to ensure that they are simple, comprehensible and compatible with each other.
p. Reversing Internal Migration.
The state protects its borders with its security forces, but it protects its territory with its people.
At one end of the internal migration problem are the cities where people are piled up like fish, while at the other end are the abandoned lands, villages, towns and cities.
On the one hand, land is being dehumanized and on the other hand people are being dehumanized.
It is certain that this unmanageable migration movement, which cannot be directly prevented legally, can be prevented with long-term and decisive policies.
Saadet in power;
Instead of crazy projects that encourage the migration of Anatolian people to big cities, that make life easier but do not lead to development
seeking on-the-spot solutions to unemployment problems,
More realistic/rational projects that feed people where they were born will be produced.
Education in cities by reducing interregional investment disparities,
health
and infrastructure services to be applied equally in rural areas,
In rural areas, the state will ensure the development of agriculture-based industries and the support of each region's unique products by the state.
Manufacturing industries based on local resources and raw materials in rural areas will be established and encouraged by the state itself.
Employment-oriented and effective investment incentive policies will be implemented in underdeveloped and heavily migratory cities and regions, the policy of "the state does not build factories" will be shelved and the private sector will be reassured by the state making the investment in the east and southeast itself.
Continuous funding of factories in regions of emigration will be prevented and they will be enabled to stand on their own feet.
Effective policies will be implemented to encourage the transfer of a large share of public and private investments to regions with net migration, and migration movements will be balanced and reversed.
The number of priority provinces for development will be increased by establishing residential areas, centers of attraction and growth that will enable rural development or medium-scale industry with completed infrastructure at least 80-90 km outside of medium-sized cities, taking into account interregional balances.
Since all other issues and state policies included in this declaration directly affect the problem of internal migration, coordinated policies will be implemented by looking at each issue from the perspective of internal migration.
Chapter Three
a. Young people
The greatest strength of a nation is its youth.
From running between exams to uncertainty about the future,
from unemployment to low wages and unfavorable working conditions,
from marital difficulties to rising divorce rates,
We are keenly aware of all the problems and threats our young people face, from alcohol, drugs and internet obsession to addiction.
The youth population between the ages of 15-30 ranks first in Europe with 26.4%.
In our country, where one out of every four people is young, there is still no comprehensive youth policy for our youth who cannot look to tomorrow with hope.
Saadet in power;
Whatever needs to be done for a youth that takes an active role in all areas of society, questions, produces and shares with self-confidence, everything will be determined together with the youth themselves.
Active participation of young people in all areas of political and social life will be ensured.
With the "Youth Coordination Institution" to be established under the Ministry of Youth and Sports, youth policies will be produced, the ground will be prepared for solving problems and everyone will participate in the solution, and coordination will be ensured by bringing universities, non-governmental organizations, local government representatives and other political party representatives together on a common ground.
This institution will have the authority to ensure the establishment of youth-related units not only within the Ministry of Youth and Sports, but also within all relevant ministries and institutions, and to ensure the effective coordination of these institutions.
The hamas jargon used by politicians, media organs, columnists and those who consider themselves intellectuals affects the culture of coexistence in society and indirectly feeds violence by pitting young masses against each other.
Our youth will be kept away from such social and psychological violence.
The belligerent attitude of politicians, whom society looks up to as role models, pushes young people to ideologically different poles.
Universities are particularly affected by the polarizing and polarizing tone of the political scene.
The mentality of "our universities" is preferred to the understanding of "universities of science".
The only thing that Saadet Party will emphasize "our" is the future of our youth.
With the logic of a race horse, our education system makes young people run on LGS, YKS, KPSS, ALES, YDS tracks without taking a breath.
This race track will be demolished and a system based on vocational selection will be established where our young people can choose a profession according to their talents, character and inclinations.
New opportunities will be created so that our young people studying at university will not be worried about finding a job, but will strive to educate themselves better.
In order to ensure that young people are not an economic burden on their families during higher education, they will be provided with a wide range of scholarships that can be repaid by serving their country in their field.
The practice of university students voluntarily and on a part-time basis in return for scholarships to provide counseling/guidance to a group of primary, middle and high school students, not exceeding 10 students, will be initiated.
The process of our young people's participation in life and production is postponed with the duration of education, and society is transformed into crowds of isolated and consuming individuals.
The quality of education will be increased and its duration will be reduced so that young people can transfer their skills and qualifications to production without being late for life.
The victimization of young people who had to leave orphanages because they turned 18 will be ended.
Our young people will be under state security until they are provided with employment opportunities and will benefit from health services free of charge.
Within the scope of Law No. 3413, public institutions and organizations will be ensured to employ young people sheltered in orphanages at the rate of one thousandth of their free staff every year.
Incentives will be given to private sector companies that employ 3% of their workforce from orphanages.
Youth is both the present and the future of a country.
Every step taken without taking the youth into account or considering them as customers will take our country backwards.
The most important input of production is youth.
The total number of unemployed in Turkey is around 3.5 million and the rate of youth unemployment between the ages of 15-24 is approximately 21% of the total unemployment rate.
In other words, 718 thousand young people are unemployed today and this number is increasing day by day.
Young people cannot look to the future with hope because they are worried about the future.
Our youth will be saved from this crisis with the development move we will implement.
Qualified and meritorious young people will be trained.
In institutional appointments, our priority is to deliver the job to those who can do it best, regardless of their thoughts, beliefs or party affiliation.
The recruitment of civil servants, which does not take into account competence in postgraduate education and institutional interviews and adopts partisanship as a measure, so to speak, as if registering members of the party, is a disregard of the 20-25 years of labor of young people.
No one will be deprived of their job or career because of their political stance.
Necessary opportunities will be provided for our young people to gain international vision by working in international institutions and organizations.
All kinds of addictions that poison our youth and disrupt the social structure will be actively combated.
Trainings on the conscious use of technology against digital addiction will be provided and social awareness will be created against this addiction.
Young people who have lost hope due to economic crisis and living conditions are looking for a solution in games of chance.
By giving everyone the fruits of their labor, we will prevent people from pinning their hopes on games of chance.
The hopes, dreams and expectations of young people - in short, their future - will be prevented from being wasted.
b. Woman
One of the most fundamental problems today is the social position and rights of women.
If there is discrimination, humiliation or violence because of gender discrimination, there is a problem of humanity.
Saadet in power;
We will act with the awareness that women are the cornerstone of healthy social life due to the great responsibility that our history and civilization have carried to the present day.
The differences between men and women will be considered as complementary and a solid social structure will be created.
Women's rights will cease to be written in human rights texts and women will be fought for a life of dignity and individuality.
It will protect women's fundamental rights and freedoms,
Policies to ensure family unity and happiness will be developed.
Domestic violence, violence against women and femicide have become multi-layered problem areas that wound and cripple the social structure in our country.
Women will be given their rights and all problems that women face both in the family and in all areas of social life will be solved.
It is a fact that psychological and economic violence against women is among the victimizations of women.
All forms of violence against women will be opposed and no compromise will be made on this issue.
In order to eliminate all kinds of legal obstacles in practice in order to eliminate the victimization of victims of violence, the necessary arrangements will be made urgently.
The process that a victim of violence or harassment has to go through at the police station, prosecutor's office and hospital to express her situation and file a complaint is extremely traumatic.
In order to ensure that the process takes place under dignified conditions, an institutional structure will be established within the health centers in every district, where the victim can easily apply and the entire judicial procedure will be completed by a female doctor, psychologist and police.
The process of "systematic alienation" of women will be ended through regulations in line with our own moral, social, cultural and spiritual values.
Necessary arrangements will be made in working life to enable women to fulfill their family responsibilities.
Practices such as verbal, physical and psychological harassment and "mobbing" experienced by women in working life will be effectively combated.
All kinds of support will be provided for working women to raise their children.
Working mothers who give birth will be granted maternity leave for (up to) 3 years if they so wish.
During this period, they will be considered socially insured and their employment contract will remain secure.
During this period, mothers will be allowed to return to their workplaces whenever they wish, without prejudice to their acquired rights.
Mothers will receive a "Childcare Allowance" based on the "Unemployment Benefit Amount" every month while they are not working but taking care of their children.
With the regulations to be made, mothers will be offered the option to work at home in appropriate business lines.
It will be ensured that all large enterprises have breastfeeding rooms and units that can provide primary health care services.
Legal arrangements to provide the necessary environments to meet the daily needs of women in all areas of social life will be urgently implemented.
Deterrent legal arrangements will be made to prevent the promotion of consumer culture mainly through women and the use of the female body as a commodity and sexual object.
c. Civil servants
Today, Turkey has rapidly turned into a party state and the customs and institutional structures of public institutions have been disrupted.
Unfortunately, in the eyes of the Government, there is no distinction between civil servants and party members.
All civil servants are seen as natural members of the ruling party and are expected to behave as such.
Civil servants who distance themselves from the ruling party and political power are treated as second class civil servants.
Saadet in power;
Public institutions will not be seen as the backyard of any political party.
Cronyism, nepotism and favoritism in the public sector will be eradicated and an appointment and promotion system based on justice and merit will be established.
The state of emergency will be lifted and the uncertainty in the working life and job security of civil servants will be eliminated.
Civil servants will not be able to be dismissed by emergency decree, and any suspicion of a crime will await a judicial decision.
The rights of the victims of the emergency decree will be restored immediately.
Civil servants (teachers, lecturers, etc.) who were not involved in the July 15 coup attempt against the nation will be immediately reinstated in their last institutions.
On the grounds of security, interviews are being rapidly expanded in civil servant recruitment.
While it is possible to solve the security problem with a security investigation and archive research, the aforementioned justification is used to prevent those who do not have political references from becoming civil servants, and our young people are condemned to run after references at the doors of the ruling party.
Interviews will be abolished for all civil servant positions, except for teacher recruitment, career specialization and inspectorate.
Our civil servants will be provided with an income at a humane standard of living and their salaries will be raised above the poverty line.
The additional indicator issues of all civil servants, especially our health workers, teachers and police officers, will be addressed and resolved together with the relevant parties.
The number of consultants and advisors will be reduced to the level of need and those employed will be actively engaged in public service.
Family allowance for civil servants with non-working spouses will be increased.
On the one hand, on every platform, our citizens are advised to have three children, while on the other hand, the child allowances paid to our civil servants correspond to ridiculous figures.
The child allowance given to civil servants will be increased for each child, with a higher coefficient.
Transition processes of civil servants between institutions will be made transparent and fair.
Entry into the police force and police officer recruitment processes will be re-designed to be free from all kinds of political manipulation.
The personal rights of our police officers will be improved.
Differences in personal rights will be eliminated by taking career, title and merit into account.
Annual leaves of our civil servants will be arranged according to the working day calculation.
This will enable them to work more efficiently and peacefully.
d. Pensioners
There are 12 million pensioners in our country.
Although they have worked and paid premiums for many years, the pensions received by our pensioners are far below the hunger limit.
As of 2017, there are 173,000 4-a (SSK) and 338,000 4-b (Tradesmen) who receive a pension below 1,000 TL.
84% of 7.3 million SSK pensioners receive a pension below 2,000 TL.
89% of 2.6 million artisan pensioners receive a pension below 1,500 TL.
87% of 2.1 million civil servant pensioners receive a pension below 2,750 TL.
The Social Security Reform was not based on Turkey's own dynamics, but on the instructions of the IMF and the World Bank as a continuation of the "Kemal Derviş Program" after the 2001 crisis, which expanded private pensions, raised the retirement age and reduced pensions.
The reform introduced a system in line with European standards, but ignored the income inequality and poverty in Turkey.
For this reason, only the amount of premiums paid and the duration of their stay in the system are taken into account when determining pensions.
Minimum pensions are not linked to the minimum subsistence level.
Saadet in power;
There will be no pensioners who receive a pension below the hunger limit.
The decline in pensions will be prevented.
The salaries of our pensioners will be increased every year under the name of "Welfare Share" by the growth rate of that year, and they will be provided with a share of economic growth.
The inequality between the different pensions paid to pensioners with the same day and the same earnings will be eliminated.
Our pensioners will be exempt from co-payments for treatment, medical devices and medicines.
e. Elderly
The increasing elderly population will be provided with access to healthy and safe living conditions to lead an active life, and intergenerational solidarity will be strengthened.
Specialized housing for homeless people will be provided, social care homes will be equipped with all kinds of health and comfortable living facilities.
Flexible working opportunities will be offered in the labor market for the elderly who want to contribute to the working life with their experience.
"Elderly Friendly Care Assurance Model" will be implemented across Turkey.
Accordingly, every elderly citizen in need of care will be covered by care insurance.
Care and services for the elderly in need of care in their own social environment will be expanded.
Elderly people in need of care will be provided with better living opportunities in accordance with the home care model.
Social care homes for the elderly, which will provide daytime or full-time services, will be developed with the status of a foundation.
The number and quality of medically fully equipped institutional care services for the elderly in dire need of physical and psychological care who cannot be cared for at home or in social care homes will be increased.
"Care Allowances" paid to family members who take care of the elderly/disabled at home will be increased according to the degree of need for care.
Free care training will be provided to family caregivers to improve the quality of home care.
In addition to the care allowance, family caregivers will also be able to benefit from partial or full-time professional home care services by waiving the care allowance.
In order to increase the number of professional care staff, the number and quality of combined disabled and elderly care departments in our universities will be increased.
Graduated disabled / elderly care staff will be employed in home or institutional care services.
The old age pension paid to our needy elderly will be made worthy of human dignity.
Disabled people
"Barrier-Free Turkey and a Barrier-Free World" will be realized for the disabled.
According to official government figures, 12.29% of the population consists of disabled citizens.
Together with their families, they constitute one third of the country's population and have the legal right to have a say and decision in the country's governance.
Accordingly, the right to disability-friendly political participation will be realized.
It will be ensured that citizens with disabilities are adequately represented in both the parliament and local assemblies.
Legal barriers preventing disabled citizens from becoming public administrators such as governors and district governors will be removed.
"Disability Friendly Active Employment Policies" will be implemented.
Accordingly, the report regulation, which victimizes the disabled and is still in force, will be amended and reorganized to meet the needs of the disabled.
Employment opportunities will be increased and vacancies in the public sector will be filled.
Within the scope of disability-friendly employment policies, the number of sheltered workplaces for severely disabled labor force will be increased.
The private sector will also be encouraged to employ more disabled people.
Coordination will be ensured between the state, private sector and non-governmental organizations in the employment of persons with disabilities.
Disabled Public Personnel Selection Examination System will be improved and injustice among the disabled will be eliminated.
In order to increase the vocational qualification of the disabled labor force, the number and quality of certified vocational courses will be increased through İş-Kur and NGOs.
Every disabled citizen with labor force qualifications will have the right to pursue a career in the profession or workplace of their choice within the framework of equal opportunity.
In line with the "Disability Friendly Workplace" standards to be established for this purpose, the principles of "Disability Friendly Human Resources Management" will be implemented both in public institutions and organizations and in the private sector.
"Disability-Friendly Care Assurance Model" will be completed as a whole.
Accordingly, the Elderly Friendly Care Assurance Model will be developed to include disabled people in need of care and the same services will be provided to disabled people.
The Elderly and Disabled Friendly Care Assurance Model will not be implemented as a pilot project, but will be widely implemented throughout the country, including in rural areas.
Positive discrimination will be applied for the mentally disabled with the understanding of a waiter state and a benevolent state, and the worries of the families of such disabled people, "What will happen to my child after me?" will be eliminated.
"Disability Friendly Socio-Cultural Programs" will be expanded.
Accordingly, the authority and activities of the General Directorate of Services for Persons with Disabilities and Elderly under the Ministry of Family and Social Policies will be increased and disabled and elderly-friendly social policies will be developed in all areas.
Disabled Friendly Access and Transportation will be Provided.
Infrastructure facilities such as transportation and access will be improved to enable the disabled to play an active role at every stage of social life.
Disabled sports will be popularized.
All sports facilities required for disabled people to do sports will be built and existing facilities will be made available for disabled people to use.
The material and moral means of the state will be used to the fullest to encourage disabled people to do sports.
Disabled tourism will be promoted.
Our disabled citizens will also be able to benefit from the tourism sector.
Our hotels and all touristic facilities and places will be made suitable for the disabled.
Chapter Four
a. Virtuous Society, Strong Family
The family, together with society, is the basic building block of both our identity and our civilization in a global sense.
As a bridge between the past and the future, the family is the most influential institution in the transmission of our culture and the formation of our personality.
In the times we live in, the concept of family is going through one of its most troubled periods.
Dominant factors such as changes on a global scale, inhumane production and consumption relations, wars, migrations and unplanned urbanization cause significant disintegration and destruction of the family.
Family unrest, lonely elderly and children, family breakdowns, and social disintegration are clear manifestations of the social disintegration that economic and social problems foster and magnify with inadequacies and contradictions.
One of the most fundamental problems affecting healthy family structure is unemployment.
In our country, where unemployment is high, domestic violence, divorces and psychological crises have become common.
Unemployment brings serious conflicts in the family.
The role of the father who cannot bring home the bacon, the model of the mother who cannot tolerate hunger and misery, and the children who are affected by this situation to the end have become the reality of our nation.
Today, education, health, housing, transportation and similar responsibilities place great burdens on families.
The fact that families face serious difficulties in meeting even their basic daily needs is a concrete reflection of the fact that the family, the most fundamental point of resistance in society, is under threat.
Negative changes in the family structure reflect negatively on society.
Lack of communication within the family due to parents being divorced or active in business life causes children not to fully learn the moral values they should learn in the family and grow up without these values.
Again, serious biological, psychological and social problems arise in children who are away from the warmth of the family.
For this reason, the family will be the fundamental element in shaping our party's social and economic policies.
Saadet in power;
Strengthening the family institution will be adopted as a national duty and a "National Family Strategy" will be developed for this purpose.
The institution of family and marriage will be strengthened and problems will be addressed systematically.
Policies that disrupt the family structure will be swiftly removed.
"Family Counseling Centers" will play an active role in solving the psycho-social problems of family members and combating domestic violence.
With the "Arbitration Institution", domestic problems will be solved primarily within the family and in this context, a system will be established for disputes that cannot be resolved between husband and wife.
Interest-free loans will be provided to people who cannot get married due to economic reasons.
Education of low-income family members will be supported and scholarships will be given to children studying.
The living conditions of orphans and orphaned children will be monitored by the state 4 times a year with quarterly reports.
In case of negative reports, education and accommodation will be provided by the state when deemed necessary.
Street children are one of the most important problems and shames of our country.
All necessary measures will be taken to save our country from this shame and these children will be sheltered,
education,
health and
employment opportunities will be provided through the state.
b. We will fight corruption.
Corruption has become one of Turkey's most fundamental problems.
Corruption and bribery is a moral disease whose social and cultural consequences are extremely destructive and whose economic and political dimensions are contagious and epidemic.
Organizing administrative and bureaucratic processes according to the principles of public interest, transparency and equality,
effective operation of democratic oversight mechanisms
and for the media to fulfill its oversight function as the fourth estate.
we are aware that it is vital for the solution of this problem.
With these structural measures, the state will cease to be an instrument of rent generation and distribution, and the meritlessness and favoritism that accompany corruption will be eliminated.
Saadet in power;
Public participation in and control over governance will be increased.
Moral values will dominate politics.
Political financing will be made transparent.
Public administration will be made transparent and senior administrations will inform the public about their work at regular intervals.
The Court of Accounts established for the audit of public property will be strengthened and the necessary legal arrangements and implementations will be put into practice without delay.
Within the scope of the principle of accountability, audit institutions that oversee the activities of the state and employees will be made effective.
As a result of effective auditing of public institutions, those who misuse state resources will be held to account.
c. We will create an education model that raises qualified people.
The education system, whose main goal is to raise moral and meritorious generations, has turned into a jigsaw puzzle due to day-to-day changes.
There is a complete chaos in education.
Not only students and parents, but even educators have become unable to follow the constant changes.
However, the changes implemented with ambitious concepts such as "reform" have not been a solution to the problems of education; on the contrary, they have made the existing problems chronic.
Saadet in power;
All processes related to education will be planned together with all stakeholders, especially educators.
The structure of the National Education Council will be reorganized to allow for more participation and diverse views.
Imbalance between regions will be eliminated and equality of opportunity in education will be ensured.
An education method and curriculum will be created in which values education is provided in the fullest sense and students become professionally equipped by developing their abilities to research, find and discover new things.
Vocational education will be developed in coordination with the business world.
A system that is based on interests and abilities and that relieves students from the stress and uncertainty of exams will be established.
Single education will be introduced in all schools.
Primary and secondary school buildings and gardens will be completely separated from each other.
The prestige of teaching as a profession will be increased.
Special attention will be paid to teacher training.
Teachers' salaries and personal rights will be improved.
Interviews will be abolished in teacher appointments.
The problems of our teacher candidates who are characterized as "unassignable teachers" will be solved and their appointments will be made according to objective criteria.
Exam fees charged to students will be completely abolished.
Scholarships will be provided to students with insufficient financial means at every stage of secondary and higher education.
Full-day students will be provided with lunch.
Emphasis will be given to public education and obstacles to the contribution of non-governmental organizations and local administrations to education will be removed.
d. We will transform universities into places that freely produce knowledge.
Universities, whose raison d'être is to produce social benefit, development, science and knowledge, have been transformed into objects of political strife.
The political tutelage over universities tries to build a domination over academics and suppresses scientific freedom.
On the one hand, the quality of education is reduced by opening universities all over the country with populist policies without taking into account capacity and needs, on the other hand, thousands of young people graduate from these universities every year and join the army of unemployed.
Saadet in power;
A free environment will be provided for universities to fulfill their primary mission of education, research, application, knowledge production and dissemination.
An administrative structure free from political pressure and tutelage will be established in universities.
The Council of Higher Education (YÖK) will be abolished and the structure of the Interuniversity Council will be reorganized in order to fulfill the duties of the state in higher education and to ensure coordination among universities.
The structure of university administrations will be structured according to the principles of transparency, accountability and participation.
The structure of rector elections will be changed.
Universities will be encouraged to make a natural and human inventory of their provinces and regions and to produce projects that will mobilize the resources of the region.
Students' housing, loan and scholarship opportunities will be expanded.
Mechanisms will be established to improve cooperation between the business world and universities.
Technoparks will be made more effective and knowledge banks will be established in different fields.
In order for university graduates to take part in business life as they deserve after graduation and for the business world to reach the qualified manpower they need, needs planning will be made, departments to be opened in universities and student quotas will be planned with a short, medium and long-term perspective.
We will review the situation of assistant professors and other lecturers whose status has been lowered by changing their titles and whose associate professorship conditions have been made uncertain, and we will return the system to the minimum 2016 conditions.
We will not allow universities to be divided and pushed out of the city by sacrificing them to land and office rents.
e. We will establish a health system based on preventive health services, not curative ones.
Health is the most fundamental human right.
In the twentieth century, factors such as rising levels of education and income, changes in dietary habits and control of infectious diseases have led to an increase in life expectancy at birth and an increase in non-communicable diseases (chronic diseases).
The increase in the ratio of the elderly population to the child population has led to a shift in public health problems from childhood diseases to non-communicable diseases in the elderly population.
While only 20% of deaths from chronic diseases occur in high-income countries, 80% of deaths from chronic diseases occur in low- and middle-income countries, where the majority of the world's population lives.
In order to lead a healthy life, individuals should have healthy living habits.
Individuals who eat well and properly, move regularly, avoid bad habits that can harm their health and have health checks to protect their health will be able to protect and improve their health better.
Today, people's health problems are increasing exponentially.
In this process, health services are not people-oriented, but rather based on commercial calculations.
With each passing day, health is being marketized and first patients and then health workers are transformed into commercial products and tools.
In the field of health, universities have been rendered dysfunctional and struggling with debt burden and shortage of assistants.
Similarly, physicians have been forced into a performance system, and in order to get more performance points, the number of procedures performed has become more important than their quality.
The "patient-doctor" relationship has been transformed into a "customer-trader" relationship as interventional procedures have come to the forefront rather than preventive practices and physicians have been directed towards forced medical indications that will bring more points instead of real medical indications.
Saadet in power;
Necessary arrangements will be made for all citizens to benefit equally from health services.
Health promotion activities will be implemented.
For this purpose, efforts will be made to combat substance abuse, obesity, violence in health, salt consumption and similar situations.
Special attention will be paid to the nutrition of our people and the production of foodstuffs containing unnatural, artificial and harmful substances will be eliminated.
The production, import and use of preservatives that extend the shelf life of products but harm human health will be banned.
The unfair performance system, which disrupts labor peace, will be reorganized in a way to establish justice.
The performance system will be revised in a way that will pave the way for qualified work of physicians, the fixed part of the salary will be increased and the amount of additional payment will be made more appropriate.
Regulations will be made with the awareness that increasing the wages of retired health workers and reflecting additional payments to retirement constitutes a vital expectation for health workers.
From cradle to grave, everyone will benefit from free health services without any additional payment.
Service efficiency and quality will be increased in public hospitals, which constitute the last pillar of health.
The public is being deceived with city hospitals.
Preventive health services are essential.
The current system produces disease in the comfort of a five-star hotel.
Large investments such as city hospitals do not alleviate the burden of chronic diseases.
Investments should be made in preventive health services and preventive health services should be adopted as a health policy.
Otherwise, even building a city hospital in every city will not reduce the current patient load.
The current system as it is generates disease.
The number of patients is not reduced by treating diseases, but by preventing them before they occur.
City hospitals will be re-planned to be more efficient, and priority will be given to providing health services on site.
"Hospitals" will be transformed into "Healing Hospitals", which is their primary duty.
"Preventive Health Services" will be prioritized in the provision of health services.
Working and living conditions and personal rights of all health workers and physicians will be improved.
Family medicine will be given due importance.
The understanding that emerges with every change of health minister, which is called "Health transformation phase 1-2-3" but which turns the system into a jigsaw puzzle, will fulfill its primary duty away from daily politics/policy in line with scientific foundations.
Air ambulances (ambulance helicopters, ambulance planes) used for emergencies will not be VIP transportation in the hands of the powerful, but will be made available to everyone in need.
Necessary amendments will be made to the Turkish Penal Code to make health care free from violence.
Necessary arrangements will be made to provide free theoretical and practical training in the field of first aid and disaster response to all people starting from school age.
Our pharmaceutical industry will be developed and the necessary scientific studies for the production of domestic medicines will be supported.
Drugs that meet the necessary conditions will be licensed quickly.
In the pharmaceutical industry, domestic pharmaceutical production will be encouraged through R&D studies by separating packaging and production.
The private sector will be encouraged to carry out activities to eliminate foreign dependency in pharmaceuticals and medical devices.
In all health centers, including city hospitals, a domestic policy will be followed not only for domestic doors and windows, but also for all medical devices and medicines.
f. We will build our cities in a human-centered way.
Our country is faced with sick cities.
Turkey's main problem is the erosion of morality and spirituality.
The problem of unplanned urbanization and rent-seeking attracts attention in this context.
In Turkey, the majority of the population is concentrated in a few cities, particularly Istanbul.
Our people, who barely make a living, are helpless in the face of housing and transportation problems.
High rents, public transportation and traffic problems have made the citizens sick to death.
The overcrowding of cities has been a harbinger of other problems.
People in big cities with economic problems
education,
Health,
employment and
It is dealing with numerous problems, notably environmental pollution.
Internal migration as a result of wrong development, agricultural and administrative policies negatively affects the social structure and security of the society.
This impact is not limited to those who migrate, but extends to all segments of society.
Saadet in power;
In order to prevent migration to big cities and to ensure reverse migration, material and spiritual development will be carried out in a balanced and planned manner and the whole of Turkey will be made livable.
Horizontal, balanced, measured and humane cities will be built.
With cheap and quality housing projects, solutions to the housing problem of our citizens will be produced not rent-oriented, but people-oriented and according to need.
In recent years, under the pretext of historical revitalization, we consider it disrespectful and unkind to history, ancestors and the city to see the historical and cultural heritage of our nation as an element of rent.
It should not be forgotten! Future generations are born in cities shaped by the choices of previous generations.
The following basic policies will be taken into account in the construction and transformation of our cities: Cities will be built in accordance with our cultural identity, moral and spiritual values.
Zoning and earthquake plans for cities will be made immediately.
Protective and development-oriented social policies will be planned, developed and implemented in cities.
The natural and historical texture of the cities will not be disturbed.
Single-centered and distorted construction will not be allowed.
Urban transformations will be carried out for their intended purpose and will not be based on building and rent-based transformation.
Architects and urban planners will be trained to build cities in accordance with our civilization values and cultural identity.
g. We will strengthen local governments with the participation of our citizens.
National Vision has been a model for municipal administrations in Turkey in its understanding and implementation of social municipalism and local services.
In the last period of municipalism, the understanding of service to the public through municipal facilities built by making large investments and in-kind and cash aids have created the "Stealing but working" municipality.
Saadet in power;
There is a need for a realistic Local Government Law that will spread the opportunities and authority across the whole country.
Villages and towns will be reorganized by taking into account the geographical situation and population.
Resource transfers from the central budget to municipalities will be increased in line with their service areas.
With the amendment to the Law on Metropolitan Municipalities, towns were abolished, villages were transformed into neighborhoods and special provincial administrations were abolished within the 30 metropolitan municipalities.
Currently, 51 provinces continue to have village, town and special provincial administration status.
In these provinces, the work will be carried out efficiently with the cooperation of mukhtars and existing provincial and district special administrations.
Participatory democracy practices in local administrations will be expanded.
For this purpose, the structure of city councils and assemblies will be revised in accordance with the structure and culture of our society, and necessary measures will be taken for their efficient operation.
In addition to sector representatives, "Citizen Assemblies" and "Neighborhood Assemblies" will be established to ensure the direct participation of citizens, and public participation in governance will be encouraged.
Mukhtars will also be represented in municipal councils.
Developing employment in provinces, districts and villages by directing local resources to production in order to prevent migration from rural areas to cities; and
welfare will be increased.
"Carbon Management Action Plans" will be prepared for municipalities to manage and minimize human-induced impact on climate change.
Agricultural lands,
natural and cultural identities and green areas will be meticulously protected.
Based on the principle of "the right to live in a healthy and balanced environment" guaranteed by the Constitution, environment-friendly, natural balance-preserving and climate-friendly municipalities will be created.
Rural development will be supported and everyone will be able to own their own business.
In order to ensure rural development, the establishment of "New Generation Cooperatives" will be pioneered and thus income will be spread to the grassroots.
Regional development will be ensured by utilizing local economic resources and "Local Economic Development Program" will be implemented.
A "City Strategy Unit" will be established to guide metropolitan and provincial municipalities by preparing reports in accordance with the developing and changing world conditions and technologies for the economic and social development of the city.
Municipalities avoid wasteful and costly populist approaches;
uncompromising to corruption, favoritism and bribery;
production,
employment
and will be managed by competent staff based on efficiency.
We Will Stop Ranting and Call for Justice in Urban Transformation.
Urban transformation is an important issue concerning approximately 6.5 million houses and 26 million people in 35 provinces.
Although the social, legal, psychological and rights aspects of this law are very important, the contributions of relevant people, NGOs, professional chambers and universities were not solicited.
The law has also lost its value in the confusion of words and concepts.
We will not sacrifice our cities to short-term personal rents and interests.
We will plan our cities by thinking a hundred years ahead.
The main criterion for building livable cities is not rent, interest or corruption, but living happily together.
This practice, which will obviously have a serious negative impact on the future of our people, goes from urban transformation to rent-based transformation, and the future of the citizens is darkened both by taking away their houses and by over-indebting them.
In the implementation of the Metropolitan Law, the Urban Transformation Law and other laws enacted to strengthen local governments, serious problems of authority and coordination arise both within local governments and between central and local governments.
Cities are built by people and people build cities.
The choice and understanding of the way cities are built play an active role in determining people's identity, personality and living habits.
Saadet in power;
The aim of urban transformation will be to increase the quality of life of the inhabitants of the region, rather than rent.
The concept of "risky area" will be redefined according to justice and equity.
In urban transformation, the participation of residents living in risky areas, local administrations, NGOs and professional chambers in the process will be ensured.
By considering the future of the city as the future of civilization, neighborhood culture, neighborhood and human relations, and our traditional architectural culture will be preserved and developed.
Humanitarian, universal and cultural sensitivities will be observed by taking cultural differences into account in the construction and transformation of the city.
Attention will be paid to horizontal urbanization planning without wasting agricultural lands, and cities with aesthetics and personality will be created by preserving the historical and natural texture.
Morally and spiritually, the city, land and soil will no longer be an element of rent.
A price control mechanism will be developed in urban transformation areas and other areas to prevent rent-seeking.
The regional and social situation will be taken into account and local culture will be preserved.
Intact and new buildings within the area will be protected.
The disease of vertical concretization, in which people are squeezed between concrete towers, lose their neighborhood relations, disrupt their social development and move away from each other, will be abandoned.
Improvement projects will be implemented to promote horizontal urbanization at optimum heights.
Within the scope of the "Social State Project", a certain number of social housing units will be built every year for families at the lowest income level who do not have a house.
The problems of orphans, homeless people and street children struggling to survive in parks and on the streets will be reviewed in detail and permanent, structural solutions will be produced.
h. Renewable Environment, Livable World
While development and industrialization efforts continue in our country, the environment is also being destroyed.
While erosion, unplanned urbanization and related infrastructure problems are experienced intensively throughout the country, environmental destruction such as soil, air and water pollution caused by unplanned industrialization has reached dangerous dimensions in some regions.
Although efforts to protect forests continue in our country, it is worrying that existing forests are being destroyed by activities such as construction and road opening without considering ecological balances.
It should not be forgotten that we are responsible for the protection of the air, water, soil and ecosystems that we benefit from, for harmonizing human activities with the environment and nature to the maximum extent, and for leaving them to the next generations.
Through careful and participatory planning and management, the world's natural resources, air, water, soil, flora and fauna, and especially its natural ecosystems, must be protected.
Our main goals are to develop the earth in harmony with nature and to build economic activities on this understanding.
Saadet in power;
Environmental policies and environmentally friendly sustainable development models based on the balance between human and nature in production and consumption, human health and the protection of the natural fabric will be implemented.
The basis of environmental policies will be participation, consultation, education and regular planning.
Training programs will be organized to raise environmental awareness and improve environmental sensitivity at all levels.
Cooperation will be established with international organizations and non-governmental organizations on environment.
Legal arrangements will be made to increase the responsibilities of local administrations in environmental protection.
Forests in urbanization, industrialization and construction,
pastures and agricultural areas will not be used.
Environmental impact assessments of HEPPs established to generate energy will be conducted on a regional, macro and micro scale.
Gene banks will be established to protect plant and living diversity.
Strategic EIA report will be introduced instead of EIA.
By preparing a national waste management plan, environmental pollution will be prevented and care will be taken to protect public health and a zero waste policy will be pursued.
Coastal areas, coastlines and bays belong to all our people.
The ownership of these areas will not be transferred to real or legal persons, even for a certain period of time.
Urbanization and destruction for rent in protected areas (such as national parks, nature reserves, wildlife development areas, nature parks, protected areas, special environmental protection zones, natural assets and wetlands) will be prevented.
Policies in line with international environmental policies on carbon emissions will be determined, and the right of future generations to a healthy life will be ensured.
"Climate Change Monitoring Centers" will be established to minimize the factors that have negative impacts on climate.
Forest management plans will be prepared and implemented.
"Forest Areas Tracking System" will be established to ensure satellite tracking of cadastral data of forest areas.
It will be made compulsory for the parties to prepare a "Landscape Repair, Closure and Rehabilitation Project" in order to restore areas that have lost their natural state as a result of mining activities.
A water law that will ensure the balance between conservation and utilization will be enacted as soon as possible.
Effective supervision of hazardous wastes will be carried out, institutions operating in this field will be strengthened and their authorities will be increased.
Our country does not have a resource and environmental problem, it has a problem of mismanagement.
In environmental protection policies, care will be taken to act in partnership with citizens and all relevant sectors and non-governmental organizations, and integrated solutions will be achieved through participatory means in solving problems.
i. Sport
Sport has an important place in terms of protecting both the health and future generations of societies.
From health with a wide range
employment,
from culture
industry,
from promotion/advertising to tourism and economy.
Therefore, it is essential to develop holistic policies in the field of sports.
With the influence of the media and the economic share it has, betting on sports in our country is a serious moral problem.
There is a problem of fairness in sports categories.
While jaw-dropping astronomical sums of money are quoted for some categories, similar treatment is not given to young people's sports habits and other professional disciplines.
On the other hand, concern about the future is one of the most important problems of athletes.
Professional athletes, after a certain age range, either atrophy because they cannot find enough workspace or they realize the danger that awaits professional athletes and reduce their interest in professionalization.
Saadet in Power;
As in every field, a fair approach will be taken to everyone in sports categories and services.
Employment areas in sports will be expanded and opportunities will be provided for athletes.
A sports culture that protects the physical and mental health of individuals of all ages will be created and for this purpose, sports areas that are easily accessible to every citizen will be built.
Infrastructure opportunities in the field of sports for the disabled will be improved.
Athletes with disabilities will be especially supported with incentives.
The most important point for sports to spread to the grassroots is the right facilities.
Coordination will be made to ensure that facilities are built in the right locations, needs are identified correctly and all sports facilities are used effectively.
By developing sports culture and education, the number and quality of sports schools will be increased.
The number and quality of coaches in Turkey will be increased and the number of licensed and active athletes will be raised at international rates.
Sports branches that have survived from the past or have been forgotten will be revived and special attention will be paid to traditional sports branches.
Again, the overemphasis on certain sports branches will be balanced and efforts will be made to operate in all professional sports branches.
It will not be planned over sports betting.
j. Working Life
In working life, labor peace, love, respect, cooperation, protection of mutual rights and productivity are essential.
Occupational accidents are still increasing due to the inadequacy of inspections in the field of occupational health and safety and the hesitancy to put into practice the regulations enacted as legislation.
As the number of work accidents increases, the number of deaths due to work accidents naturally also increases.
In Turkey, 1,008 out of 100 thousand workers die as a result of work accidents.
Between 2003 and 2016, 16,925 workers lost their lives in work accidents.
Over 10 thousand of our workers became disabled.
Workers suffer from widespread occupational diseases and mental health problems.
The number of people suffering from work-related health problems, such as the risk of occupational accidents, exposure to chemicals, dust, fumes and harmful gases, and heavy and excessive work, has reached 1 million.
Saadet in power;
No profit can be more precious than the life of the worker.
With seriousness and determination, inspections in this area will be increased, on-the-job awareness-raising activities will be initiated and work accidents will be eliminated through systems for monitoring risky sectors at all times.
Expenditures for occupational health and safety measures will be exempt from VAT.
A premium system suitable for a fair risk structure will be introduced in occupational accident and occupational disease insurance.
Investigations of all work accidents in institutions will be carried out by independent boards, not within the institution itself.
In this way, situations such as cover-ups and favoritism will be eliminated, and the responsible person will be punished according to the penalty in the legislation and the responsibility for the duty will be increased.
Workplace working conditions and wages will be brought in line with international norms.
Working conditions of workplaces will be made suitable for a healthy working life.
The necessary opportunities and environment will be prepared for everyone to freely choose their work.
Everyone will receive equal pay for equal work.
The right of the worker will be given before the sweat dries on his/her brow.
Harassment, coercion, discrimination and victimizing behaviors will not be allowed in business life.
As is the case with all other rights and freedoms, trade union rights are lagging far behind the times.
Arrangements will be made to ensure the right to form a union with a strike for all public employees without discrimination of workers and civil servants, except for justice, security, representative duties and senior officials of the administration.
Trade unions will be transformed into institutions that seek the rights of employees, educate them, and increase solidarity and cooperation, rather than being instruments of conflict that take an active role in solving the problems of their members
Special protective measures will be taken for disadvantaged groups such as women, children, the elderly and the disabled in working life.
The injustices and distortions experienced in ending subcontracted labor practices will be eliminated, and the subcontracted workers who have not been recruited will also be recruited.
Working conditions of seasonal workers employed in the agricultural sector will be improved and their social security will be made operational.
Necessary support and incentives will be provided to agricultural producers/employers who provide employment.
The minimum wage will be transformed into a "Humane Living Wage" with a fair share of the national income by removing it from below the hunger limit.
"Eid Bonus" will be paid to all civil servant-worker employees on Ramadan and Eid al-Adha.
Employer and labor law will be supervised by expert boards to be established alongside the Ministry of Labor.
"Provincial Labor Centers" will be established to monitor and inspect areas of direct concern to workers, such as working environments, standards and exposure to pressure.
Employees' severance payments will be protected and problems encountered will be solved with the participation of all parties.
With the new modeling we have already developed, it will be ensured that all workers will be entitled to compensation according to their seniority, regardless of their eligibility conditions, without increasing the burden on the employer.
k. Social Security
Since the fundamental legitimacy of states is based on the protection of human rights and the provision of decent living conditions, the provision of social security is among the primary duties of the state.
Livelihood, shelter, health for a sustainable life for all
and the right to social security to cover the costs of education, and these rights are guaranteed by the state.
Despite the increase in annual revenues due to duplicated premium restructuring laws, coverage ratios excluding state contributions have been on a downward trend.
With the restructurings, the consciousness of premium payment in social security has been eliminated.
Therefore, despite practices such as the single premium system in general health insurance and premium reductions for 4-b (BAG-KUR) insured persons, coverage rates do not reach sustainable levels and deficits become chronic.
When budget forecasts are revised with new populist practices, it is not difficult to say that we will face the largest social security deficits in the history of the republic in the coming periods.
Under this system, citizens who pay their premiums on time are penalized and those who do not pay their premiums are rewarded.
The premium rate applied to premiums, the source of income for the social security system, is not affordable.
The Social Security Institution's premium receivables are constantly increasing and the coverage ratio is decreasing despite the state contribution introduced in 2008.
Saadet in power;
Medium and long-term projections in the social security system will be revised in line with Turkey's realities, and discipline will be taken as a basis in implementation.
The future of the citizens will not be sacrificed to day-to-day political rents.
The reasonable level of premium rates that we will determine and implement will not only make premiums more affordable for our citizens, but also reduce the social security deficit by increasing the institution's premium revenues.
Working and retirement conditions will be comprehensively reformed.
Contradictions in the pension and insurance system will be eliminated.
Conditions in which our people can live in dignity, happiness and with hope for the future will be ensured.
The contradiction between contributions and age for retirement will be eliminated, and retirement will be based on years of service, not age.
Women can retire after 25 years and men after 30 years.
The pension system, which causes the pensions of the majority of minimum wage earners in our country to decrease as they work, will be made fair.
Tradesmen will be provided with the opportunity to benefit from health services by paying general health insurance premiums and work accident premiums and to pay their retirement premiums upon their request.
With the 1999 amendment, the problems of those who have completed their premium days to retire but who are over the age of retirement will be solved.
l. Transportation
Turkey will become a regional hub in logistics.
Improving trade and increasing competitiveness in terms of reducing transportation costs in Turkey is of geostrategic importance.
Priority will be given to spreading all transportation facilities throughout the country in an economical and balanced manner.
It will be ensured that freight and passenger transportation services are carried out in an effective, efficient, economical, environmentally friendly and safe manner.
Combined transportation in freight transportation will be developed and the shares of rail and maritime transportation will be increased.
Necessary arrangements will be made for our tradesmen providing transportation and/or public transportation services to provide services under more qualified conditions.
Heavy financial burdens encountered in obtaining authorization certificates will be resolved.
Efforts to improve quality and safety will be accelerated.
With the transportation master plan to be prepared, road, rail, maritime and air transportation will be distributed according to the needs by taking into account the investment and operating costs.
Safe and fast rail and maritime transportation will be developed between production and consumption centers, ports and neighboring countries.
Transportation connections of less developed regions will be strengthened.
We are one of the eight countries that use high-speed train technology, but we are the only country that is heavily dependent on foreign countries for software, consumables, raw materials, spare parts and maintenance.
In the national and high technology we will establish, "National Railway Facilities" will be established by using domestic materials with the efforts of our own engineers and the manual labor of our workers.
National high speed train railway networks will be expanded.
m. We will ensure that our citizens living abroad are respected.
There are millions of our citizens who live hundreds of kilometers away from their homeland with homesickness and endure many difficulties.
We owe it to our citizens, who are out of sight but not out of our hearts, to give them the honor and dignity they deserve and to solve their problems.
Saadet in power;
Our consulates will not leave any body unattended.
The funeral needs of the citizens of the Republic of Turkey will be taken care of and the transportation of funerals will be provided free of charge through Turkish Airlines.
Orphaned children and the elderly, especially orphaned women, people in need of care and the sick will be taken care of personally and an infrastructure will be established to meet their needs.
They will also be assisted by institutions that provide services according to our own beliefs, customs and traditions, and this assistance will be coordinated and supported by the consulates.
Entrepreneurs will be encouraged to open children's homes, shelters (especially for orphaned women), nursing homes (for the elderly) and care homes for the sick.
There are still many problems especially in the equivalence of vocational diplomas.
The necessary legislative amendments will be made in this regard and the numerous victimizations will be eliminated.
The opening of bilingual schools will be encouraged and support will be given to the opening and expansion of kindergartens for this purpose.
Turkish language teachers will be trained in Europe or receive education in Turkey for a certain period of time, and necessary support will be provided for student transfers between universities.
The number of Turkish language teachers will be increased and these trainings will be supported, educational attaché offices will be activated and NGOs providing Turkish language education will be supported.
Alcohol and drug addiction has become a threat to all young people in Europe.
Under the leadership of our consulates, efforts will be made to prevent addiction together with NGOs.
The spiritual development of our citizens living in Europe will be made a state policy.
The existence of broken families and the state taking their children and changing their religion, identity and sometimes even their names is a well-known issue.
Information on the protection of children taken from their families will be meticulously monitored through consulates.
The issue of children confiscated by European states will be addressed immediately and NGOs providing services in this field will be supported financially and morally.
Citizens will be encouraged to become "Foster Families".
Scientific studies on halal food and slaughter in Europe will be supported by our state and the Presidency of Religious Affairs.
Necessary efforts will be made for the official acceptance of Islam in European countries.
We will hold the necessary talks with European countries on dual citizenship and take the necessary steps.
Places will be allocated in consulates where our citizens can comfortably worship.
It will be ensured that our consulates provide 24/7 service with a sufficient number of trained personnel who can respond instantly to many problems that develop instantly.
Consular document fees will be reduced.
Passport fees will be reduced to a reasonable level.
"Culture and Art Centers" will be established within institutionalized NGOs for our citizens living in Europe and necessary support will be provided.
The number of voters abroad, especially in Western Europe, has exceeded 3 million.
Overseas constituencies will be created and voters abroad will be given a certain number of parliamentary quotas.
In this way, the problems of our citizens living abroad will be addressed more closely by regional MPs.
A "Presidency or Directorate for Overseas Travel and Residence Security" will be established under the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or directly under the Prime Ministry.
A sufficient number of "Sıla Yolu Rest Facilities" will be opened on the road route.
In addition to the possibility of buying oil, these facilities will offer accommodation, halal food, a masjid and especially car repair facilities.
Our people will be able to meet all their needs in these facilities in the safest way, without fear of being deceived and exposed to any trouble.
Consular officials will also be present in these facilities, especially during the summer months, to provide counseling services to our people.
The issue of the right to take a car to Turkey will be fully clarified.
The pension rights of our citizens of Turkish origin living in Europe are being usurped.
Bilateral agreements between countries, EU treaties and international agreements require that the social security entitlements of returning workers are remitted to the country of settlement.
While the German State pays full premiums to some countries with the same status as Turkish workers, it discriminates against Turkish citizens and does not pay these premiums or pays only part of them.
All necessary legal and diplomatic steps will be taken.
Pensioners who retire in Turkey and work abroad have their pensions cut off.
A particularly positive approach will be taken in this regard.
Law No. 3201 on borrowing from abroad, those who retire from Turkey cannot receive their pension if they work with an employment contract in any workplace in accordance with this law.
Grievances in this regard will be eliminated; in short, work will be free and there will be no deductions or bans on pensioners' salaries in Turkey due to their work and salaries.
Unfortunately, young people who were born in Europe, who have completed their education in Europe without interruption from kindergarten onwards, are required to work for three years with insurance in the country where they live in order to fulfill their military service, while those who live in Turkey and want to do their military service, whether paid or unpaid, are not required to work.
Taking into account the situation of young people who were born in Europe and completed their school education here, the problem of abolishing the three-year working requirement will be solved by legal regulation.
Our citizens with blue cards are treated as stepchildren.
Their right to vote and be elected has been usurped and they have been left in an identity crisis.
Blue card holders will be restored the right to vote and be elected.
Blue card holders will be able to run and vote in local and general elections.
Likewise, Blue Card holders will be given the right to civil service.
Unfortunately, blue card holders do not have the right to import vehicles and goods exempted.
Necessary steps will be taken in this regard.
It will establish the "TRT Europe" channel, which will address the problems of our people in Europe, constantly inform our people about local developments in Europe and broadcast especially to our European citizens.
4. Our Vision of a New World
For centuries, the world has been struggling between a civilization of peace based on truth and justice and a confrontational worldview based on force and oppression.
For the last three centuries, the racist, interestist, capitalist imperial understanding of the West has disrupted all the delicate balances against humanity and made the world dominated by blood, tears and suffering.
This mentality, which enters each century with a new strategy of chaos, has modern attempts to control strategic regions,
dominating the high seas,
accessing strategic mineral and energy resources,
preventing the development of Islamic countries and other countries,
reshaping the Islamic world
, supporting the goal of Greater Israel.
For all these, the Islamic geography has been reorganized through ethnic and sectarian conflicts, radical currents such as Islamophobia and racism have been supported in the West, and the clash between innovators and traditionalists and the fallacies of inter-religious and inter-civilizational dialogue have been created to force Islam to reform.
In addition to these, the West has tried to control countries through different methods as a way of governing the world.
It has directly intervened and occupied some Muslim countries (e.g. Iraq, Afghanistan), taken sides through the Arab Spring (e.g. Syria, Egypt, Libya), supported proxy wars by intervening in the internal dynamics of Muslim societies, and increased the number of oppressed geographies by finding collaborative governments with different elements of pressure.
Our country has an important value with its geography, historical mission and responsibilities.
As the Felicity Party, our approaches in foreign policy have been planned and developed in line with these motives as national, regional and global.
a. We will pursue a personalized foreign policy.
Our country has been subjected to all kinds of deceit and expansionism, right next to the exploitation center of the West.
The current political attitude of the West and political understandings that see Western civilization as superior have rapidly distanced our country from taking a national stance.
However, in every period when the political initiative was given to it, "National Vision" overcame all the obstacles in front of our country's pursuit of a foreign policy with personality and put forward its civilizational claim.
The basis of this is to achieve great success by eliminating foreign dependence in areas such as agriculture, animal husbandry, industry, energy and technology, which show the real power of the country.
That is why countries without strong economies cannot claim independence and are unfortunately manipulated by foreign countries.
The way to pursue a personalized foreign policy is to maximize the real power of the country.
Our country's strength at home is one of the first steps of a personalized foreign policy.
Today, however, the institutional and ideological alliances that the West has developed to sustain the order of exploitation override the strength of individual countries.
Therefore, in the world that the West has turned into a chessboard, strong unions on the axis of rights and justice must be formed in every field.
On the other hand, another important issue is that a country cannot pursue a personalized foreign policy by allying with those who are hostile to our core values and establishing strategic partnerships.
It is a moral weakness and an eclipse of reason to enter into an alliance of interest with countries that want to exploit not only us but all of humanity in order to promote our own values.
Saadet in power;
Foreign policy will be based on peace, not war; dialogue, not conflict.
A diplomatic language based on rights, law and justice will be developed urgently, especially with our neighbors.
D-8 will be quickly revitalized.
The Organization of Islamic Cooperation will be revitalized.
An independent Northern Cyprus will be preserved.
Contacts with neighboring and non-aligned countries (such as Brazil, Russia, China, Japan) will be strengthened.
Special efforts will be launched to establish peace and tranquility in crisis regions (such as Syria, Egypt, Libya, Yemen).
b. We will not compromise on our Palestinian cause.
There are cities that stand out for their location, history and meaning.
Leaders who guided humanity grew up in these cities and invited humanity to rights and justice in these places.
Jerusalem is one of the most important of these cities.
In this respect, Jerusalem is not just a city, a place, a holy town, but a sublime cause and an indispensable love.
The first qibla is the first direction.
But most importantly, it is the common consciousness and common denominator of all of us, Arabs, Persians, Sunnis and Shiites.
Jerusalem is the litmus paper of humanity.
Historical facts show that whoever dominated Jerusalem dominated the world.
The one who brought oppression to Jerusalem has bloodied the earth, and the one who brought peace and tranquility to Jerusalem has made right and justice prevail on the earth.
Throughout history, our ancestors have made Jerusalem a land of peace.
The oppressors, who favored force over power, drowned this blessed land in oppression and turned it into a land of war.
The situation is no different today.
First they massacred the Palestinians by brute force, with missiles and tanks, and then they established Israel by forcing those who remained behind to migrate from their homes and homelands.
Now they are working on the Greater Middle East Project to establish the Greater Israel.
Today, Jerusalem is facing a total siege by Zionism.
This siege is also a global siege.
This global siege can be countered together.
Therefore, it is not a time for talking, it is a time for working hard and acting consciously.
This bad trajectory can be stopped by strengthening alliances, not by scratching disputes and differences.
c. We will ensure peace and tranquility in our region.
As the center of human history, our region corresponds to the most strategic area of our world.
Anatolia, Mesopotamia and the "Middle East" with its new and wider geographical nomenclature is a crossroads of civilization.
In order to realize its ambitions, the current world order has brought to the agenda a move called the "Greater Middle East Project" that will move all the cornerstones of our region and disrupt its delicate balances, and has put into action plans with new scenarios such as invasion attempts and conflict elements.
With its historical development, it is obvious that the real actor of this project is Israel and its main goal is the "Greater Israel Project".
The current events show that every problem in our region is progressing in a way that favors the State of Israel.
Unfortunately, with the rhetoric of effective political method, the current political power of our country has taken water to the mill of the sovereign powers as a strategic partner of the Greater Middle East Project and has put our country into a quagmire that is difficult to get out of for the sake of cheap interests.
A peace diplomacy that respects the rights and laws of all countries has not been developed.
Saadet in power;
Peace will be the basis of our relations with our neighbors.
Our country will be directed towards regional alliances.
Our country will be saved from being a part of the "Great Middle East Project".
The economic cooperation of the countries in the Black Sea basin will be improved and Turkey's effectiveness in the organization will be increased.
Foreign countries will be prevented from having warships on our Black Sea, Mediterranean and Aegean Sea coasts and basins.
The most advanced exemplary relations will be established with the Turkic republics, with which we have historical, cultural and spiritual ties, within the framework of fundamental principles.
d. We will make D-8 effective and establish Islamic Union.
D-8 is a global organization that is a step towards the establishment of a new world of bliss where right prevails instead of a world of oppression where force prevails.
D-8 is the core of the world's 5 billion "oppressed" people.
The establishment of the D-8s began with the participation of 8 countries (Turkey, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Egypt, Nigeria, Iran, Indonesia, Malaysia) with a population of more than 60 million people.
With a population of more than 1 billion and a geography of 7.5 million square kilometers, the D-8 countries are a great power and potential.
D-8 member countries have 15.4% of the world's proven oil reserves and 22.5% of proven natural gas reserves.
It covers a large region in the center of the world and has a great potential and meaning with its cheap labor force and trained staff.
D-8 countries account for approximately 12% of the world's annual oil production and 11% of natural gas production.
In addition, the vast majority of strategic mineral reserves such as boron and chromium are located in these countries.
But most important of all is the human factor.
The D-8 was formed not to clash with the G-8, but on the contrary, to build the new world together.
The D-8 was established to embrace all developing countries and all the oppressed peoples of the world and at the same time to have a dynamic structure capable of taking decisions quickly.
The D-8 was founded on the basic principle of non-interference in the internal affairs of the member countries and without prejudice to the commitments and rights of each of them in their regional agreements.
The D-8s were established to ensure that all developing countries develop together and rapidly, to increase their participation in the mechanisms that regulate international relations, to strengthen their effectiveness in the world economy and to ensure a better standard of living for their peoples.
The D-8 was established as soon as it was established to mobilize the dynamics of all member countries and to realize useful projects rapidly.
The D-8 is one of the most important events of the 20th century, the most precious gift of the 20th century to the 21st century.
The meaning of the six stars on the flag of the D-8s, which symbolize the 6 basic principles, are as follows: Peace Not War, Dialogue Not Conflict, Dialogue
Not Double Standards, Justice
Not Monopoly, Superiority, Equality Not
Exploitation, Cooperation
Not Oppression and Domination, Human Rights, Freedom
and Democracy
e. We will establish a new world centered on rights and justice.
The vision of "A New World", which is only on the agenda and program of our Saadet Party in our country, is a world where justice is observed, peace and tranquility prevail, where there is no oppressed and oppressor,
where a fair share is guaranteed instead of exploitation,
respect for human rights,
is a vision of a world where law is supreme.
The current world order of racist imperialism based on exploitation is structured in a number of studies, but it is not possible for those who prioritize interests and form a policy based on their own power to establish a world at the level we have mentioned.
They consider themselves civilized because of their technological level and economic wealth, but the real condition for being civilized is to sincerely embrace the basic principles of the D-8.
It is not possible to have peace and tranquility in a world where brute force is effective and dominant.
Therefore, a just world can be built by members of civilizations who sincerely embrace these hopes.
D. Conclusion
Dear people, for the establishment of a "Livable Turkey", for the establishment of a "Great Turkey Again", for the establishment of a "New World", let us vote for the Felicity Party.
Saadet Party is the original, the essence of the nation, the National Vision.
A vote for the Felicity Party is a vote for the nation itself.
Victory belongs to the believers and victory is near.
May June 24 be our feast and may the Saadet power be auspicious.
