OUR FUTURE VISION
Today, the whole world is experiencing a dizzying pace of change in every field.
While technological transformations are taking place on the one hand, new trends are being observed in the social and cultural sphere on the other.
Those who adapt by perceiving change well win, while those who lag behind in the change process pay a much higher price than before.
With an experienced team, we carefully analyze global trends, emerging opportunities and reshaped relations, and we lay out a clear road map.
We attach special importance to digitalization, one of the distinguishing characteristics of the new era, and we believe that the time for Digital Turkey has come.
We had set out our 2023 vision to carry our country to the 100th anniversary of the founding of our Republic in a stronger way.
With the new government system, we will further strengthen this vision and transform it into a country where our business world, young entrepreneurs and businesswomen have a voice on a global scale.
Five years to 2023, we are now at the stage of adopting and setting longer-term goals.
As we take firm steps towards 2053 and 2071, which we have set as our horizon line, we will now carry our vision into the future with a long-term perspective.
To this end, we will achieve high and sustainable economic growth in the period ahead, on average above that of developing countries.
Thus, we will increase our share in the world economy to 1.5 percent.
At a time when protectionism is on the rise globally, it is open to the outside world, not caught up in temporary headwinds,
We will continue to strengthen our competitive, free market-based economic structure.
By utilizing the advantages of our geography and dynamic young population, we will transform our country into a global power that produces knowledge and transforms it into added value.
We will transform the way we produce into a structure based on innovation and differentiation, which has become one of the most important competitive factors today.
For this, knowledge-based production will be the main determinant of our growth.
At the core of all our policies is our human-centered political understanding.
We see our people as the very purpose of development and we act with the awareness that we can reach this goal with our people.
Our greatest asset is our dynamic population and youth.
We will make the best use of the window of opportunity offered by our young and dynamic population, the envy of developed countries, in terms of economic growth.
We will write new success stories in the global arena with the young people we will run with.
We will succeed not by following others, but by our young people, who others look up to, who make a name for themselves in the world, and whom we trust to the end.
Within the framework of our goal of total development, we will continue to support women's more active participation in the development process.
While strengthening women's entrepreneurship,
we will also increase women's labor force participation rate to over 40 percent by the end of 2023.
With the breakthroughs we have made in the last 16 years, we have raised our country from a lower middle income country to an upper-middle income country.
Our new goal is to move our country into the league of high-income countries.
With an inclusive economic growth approach, we will share the blessings of the economy more equitably across all social segments.
While improving income distribution, we will also reduce regional imbalances.
According to the United Nations Human Development Index, we will take our country to the "highest level of human development".
In the coming period, a society that shares its income more equitably and ensures intergenerational equity;
everyone has the willingness, ability and skill to work; everyone contributes to production;
democratic standards are high,
We will become a developed society in every field.
We will focus on technological developments in areas that are expected to shape economic and social developments globally.
We will become a competent country in this field.
In this process, while transitioning to a digital industrial structure based on new technologies,
the other hand, we will employ our people in new areas where we can benefit from their mental and physical skills.
We will increase the share of resources we allocate to R&D from National Income to over two percent, and we will have an economic structure dominated by the share of high-tech production in our manufacturing industry.
We will strengthen the role of the private sector with an entrepreneurial and innovative approach in the production and use of knowledge to create added value.
We will become a country with many entrepreneurs and brands recognized on a global scale with the original projects we will create in a competitive environment, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises.
We aim for a Turkey that has achieved digital transformation in all sectors and increased corporate quality in the public and private sectors.
In addition to our economic and technological breakthroughs, we will continue to realize our mega projects that can serve not only at the national level but also at the international level.
Our country; education,
Health,
information and communication, energy, defense industry, transportation, logistics
and we will transform it into a country that has a say in the world and is a center of attraction with domestic and national production in trade.
We will maximize the level of our national technology that we are developing in many areas of the defense industry.
In the coming period, Turkey will not only meet its own needs, but will also become one of the leading exporter countries in the world.
We will develop our country's domestic and national technological infrastructure and organizational capability to have defense mechanisms in cyber space as well as traditional elements.
We will implement the highest level of measures at international standards in the fields of energy and food safety, which are indispensable for our country.
We aim for our citizens to live a better quality life in peace and security.
In this context, we will make our cities more livable with smart and green city projects.
We will leave our future generations cities with an identity where they will find traces of our civilization and be proud of.
With an understanding that carries our past values into the future, we will make breakthroughs in education, culture and arts to create value for all humanity with innovative products and approaches.
Our country plays an important role in voicing the problems and expectations of developing countries.
Drawing on this experience, we will further strengthen our economic and political relations with different regional structures, particularly with the EU.
Together with our nation, we want the friendly and brotherly nations in our region and around the world to prosper more.
We will take firm steps for the production of added value in this geography by further tightening the cooperation required for this.
We will strive to accelerate the development process of our country, which has been the center of important civilizations and home to cultures in the past, together with its neighbors by increasing its integration with the world in this rich geography.
While we will continue to contribute to peace and prosperity in our neighboring geography, we will lead the way in establishing a more liberal, inclusive and just global order.
With this understanding, Turkey will continue to demand democracy and justice not only for its own people but for all humanity in the future as it does today.
and to maintain its rights-based diplomatic approach.
We will resolutely continue to call for "the world is bigger than 5".
Turkey will continue to be a global leader and the hope of the oppressed.
An entrepreneurial and innovative approach that has a competitive advantage in every field in a reshaped world and spreads to all segments of society,
sharing prosperity with justice,
Together, we will build a strong and great Turkey that combines national values with universal values.
The promise was Turkey.
NEW GOVERNANCE MODEL
The June 24 elections will be the first election in which we will implement the new governance system.
On the one hand, our citizens will elect the President, that is, the Government, and on the other hand, they will elect the MPs.
The new era will be the era of a strong Parliament and a strong Government.
The harmonious work of these two main institutions, as well as their focus on their respective fields, will serve the realization of our national goals.
These two forces will be complemented by an independent and impartial judiciary.
In the new era, the Parliament will be more prestigious, the Government more powerful, and the independent and impartial judiciary more effective.
With the Presidential Government System, the functions of the executive branch will be streamlined and effective, and the
principle of separation of powers will be implemented in a healthier way.
In the new governance model, which is based on the executive providing faster and higher quality services with a more holistic structure, a strong Parliament will fulfill its responsibilities on the executive by doing legislative activities better, while an
independent and impartial judiciary will create the legal basis for our citizens to receive justice services in a fair and effective manner.
Strong Parliament
Although the first parliament in our country emerged during the Constitutional Monarchy period, the foundations of a democratic legislative process were laid with the transition to multi-party life in 1950.
After 1960, although military coups and memorandums were attempted to interrupt the free will of the Parliament from time to time, with the resilience of our people, the national will kept the Parliament of the Nation alive every time, but obstacles continued to be put in front of the Parliament's ability to show its will alone.
Since we came to power in 2002, the will of the Parliament has been continuously strengthened in line with our civilianization efforts.
Despite all kinds of tutelage attempts, the strong will of our governments did not allow the national will to be undermined and the power of the Parliament to diminish.
On April 27, an e-intelligence was issued and on July 15, an armed coup was attempted to seize the will of the Parliament, but both attempts, which our AK Party governments faced 10 years apart, were eliminated with the strong support of our people and the determined stance of our government.
During the July 15 treacherous coup attempt, for the first time in our history, our Parliament was bombed and the will of the nation was tried to be destroyed.
The Grand National Assembly of Turkey, which has a strong historical tradition, showed the whole world on July 15th that it will not accept any power over the national will.
Our Parliament is the symbol of national will, the guarantee of our people's right to govern themselves.
Parliament is not only a place where legislative activities are carried out, but also a place where Turkey's independence, democratic identity and the supreme will of the people are embodied.
Our parliament is an indispensable part of our system of governance and democracy, providing the voice of the people and legislative oversight over the executive.
A strong government without a strong parliament
and it is impossible to talk about an independent and impartial judiciary and to dream of a developed country.
A century ago, our grandfathers, whom we remember with mercy, under the leadership of Gazi Mustafa Kemal, did not close the Parliament even when the Greek soldiers came to Polatli, took decisions with the will of the Parliament even under wartime conditions and won our War of Independence under the leadership of our Grand National Assembly.
The Grand National Assembly of Turkey, which is the embodiment of the national will, will continue its activities in a strong manner in the new period; it will function as an important element of the new system; it will continue its legislative activities uninterruptedly for the security, freedom, peace and prosperity of our people.
The constitutional amendment has paved the way for our Parliament to work in a stronger environment.
With the new system, the Parliament and the Government will be strengthened and double-headedness in the administration will be eliminated.
Elections will no longer be held every four years but every five years, ensuring long-term stability.
In our new Parliament, we will no longer have 550 but 600 deputies, and with the right to vote at the age of 18, our Parliament will become younger and more representative.
In the new system, our Parliament will focus on its primary function of making laws and will oversee the government on behalf of the nation in a stronger way.
Legislative proposals will now be made only by MPs and the expectations of our people will be much more reflected in the laws.
The government will not be able to propose bills outside the budget.
Under the new system, the government does not have the authority to prepare and submit draft laws, and its authority to issue decree laws through an authorization law has been abolished.
A strong Parliament will continue to be one of the indispensable elements of our governance system in the coming period, as a requirement of an effective legislature for a qualified democracy.
The parliament's power to oversee the executive will also be strengthened and transformed into a real oversight.
Parliament will oversee the government through legislation, as well as through parliamentary research, general debate and written questions.
The Parliament will be able to use its power to initiate the criminal oversight process through investigations and lifting immunities when necessary.
For us, a strong Parliament means a Parliament that works, produces and enacts laws, thus facilitating the daily lives of our citizens, economic units and all segments of social life and contributing to the solution of problems.
The legislative power of MPs will be strengthened with the new governance model.
In the new period, it is very important for us that the Parliament functions more as a legislator in solving the fundamental problems of our country.
For this purpose, we will pay special attention to the deputies who represent our great people on the benches of the Parliament, who are concerned with their problems, who seek solutions, who think and produce proposals, to create a better quality legislative process in the new term with more qualified work.
We will strengthen the technical and institutional infrastructure of the Parliament.
The deliberative environment of the specialized commissions in the Assembly will be improved and they will become much more active, and the institutional infrastructure of the Assembly will be further strengthened.
The general assembly will focus more on decision-making processes.
We will strengthen the legislative capacity of parliament, while strengthening its capacity to oversee the government.
Active participation and contribution of civil society organizations will be ensured for a quality legislative process, especially in the work of the Commission.
As AK Party, we will pioneer regulations that will ensure that the bylaws, which determine the working procedures and principles of the Parliament, work in accordance with our new government system.
Our parliament will not only legislate, but will also have a mission in the international arena to protect the law of our country and our people.
In the new period, our Parliament will play a much more active role in parliamentary diplomacy.
Strong Government (Presidential Administration Model)
Our last 16 years of success, in which we have raised Turkey from the league of lower middle-income countries to the league of upper middle-income countries, were crowned with the change in the governance system that our nation voted yes to in the April 16, 2017 Constitutional Referendum.
The Government System of the Republic of Turkey has been changed to the Presidential Government System by the will of our nation.
With the June 24 elections, our top priority is to implement the results of the referendum with all its elements and to establish an "effectively functioning administration based on the national will".
The legal and institutional harmonization process to the new governance system will be realized with a "reformist" approach within the framework of our 2023 targets.
Holding elections every five years will ensure stability and predictability and reduce uncertainties.
With the constitutional amendment, under the leadership of the President of the Republic, who has been given executive power as the head of the state, we are now moving to a state system that will take decisions faster and function faster, and we are entering a period in which the Parliament and the Government will work in a more harmonious manner.
With the Presidential Government System, we will enter into a new period of revival.
In this period, fast and effective administration with reduced bureaucracy
will be the guarantee of economic growth, welfare and development.
We will create an effective governance model that makes decisions, executes and reforms quickly.
With the new system, the central organization of the Presidency will focus on policy and strategy development, monitoring and evaluation, while ministries will be shaped in a more executive and functional structure.
Ministers will no longer be MPs, so they will concentrate on their core work rather than their constituencies.
We will make an administration that meets the needs of our citizens, keeps pace with developments, and ensures the fast operation of institutions.
while reducing bureaucracy and
We will accelerate growth
accelerate our goals for 2023 and beyond.
With a strong government, peace, security
and we will be the guarantor of freedom.
Thanks to the organizational renewal, we will operate our security policies more effectively.
We will offer our people the opportunity to live their freedoms in a safe environment.
With the strong government system, we will also elevate our country to a more influential position in its region and in global politics.
Thus, we will increase our contribution to regional and global peace and stability.
We will expand our capabilities in international cooperation and counter-terrorism, as seen in Operations Euphrates Shield and Zeytindalı.
We will be empowered to have a say and rights in solving international problems.
Our goal of becoming a leading country will be realized in a shorter period of time with our new governance system.
Our influence in the region will increase as a problem-solving, powerful country.
With the new system, the multi-headedness in decision-making processes in the executive will be eliminated and a more effective and faster administration will be realized.
This will eliminate bureaucratic delays in appointments.
We will be able to make performance-based changes in managers more quickly.
We will prioritize competence and merit in office.
We will reduce management levels in the bureaucracy.
We will facilitate the structural transformation of institutions and the merger of units or institutions doing similar work.
We will rapidly implement the institutions required by new technologies and applications.
In this period, under the leadership of the President, the wheels of public administration will turn faster with ministries, provincial organizations and local governments; the quality of service we will provide to our citizens will increase and the time and cost of bureaucratic work and transactions will decrease.
We are designing the structural and functional transformation of public administration in a systematic and holistic manner to adapt to the requirements of the new government system.
With the new governance system, we will realize a new and comprehensive development move.
We believe that this process, which should be seen as a great opportunity that countries do not always encounter in their history, will be instrumental in the rise of our nation in every respect.
In this period, while growing our economy by making technological breakthroughs
On the other hand, we aim for an environment where we will meet better quality services in every field.
Management systems concern all policy areas, not just one specific area.
A stable and effective governance system will lead to positive results in all areas.
Regulatory needs required by the Presidential Government System, more effective and efficient operation of public administration, acceleration of decision-making and implementation processes,
strengthening democratic politics and eliminating tutelary structures within the framework of an understanding of governance based on national will,
will be shaped with the understanding of realizing the reforms needed by public administration in the environment of change and competition in the world.
Reforms to be carried out with this understanding will expand the space for democratic politics and respond much more effectively to the expectations of our people.
Our governance system, which will become more effective in both policy-making and implementation processes, will become an extremely important advantage for our country in a competitive world.
We will ensure the adaptation required by the new system in ministries and central public administrations.
We are in the process of finalizing our work on defining mechanisms for public administrative structuring, preventing duplication in service delivery by clarifying the division of duties of public administrations, and ensuring coordination between the Presidency and Ministries.
After the June 24 elections, we will complete the legislative infrastructure required by the system.
After the constitutional amendment, we will continue with legal reform in the areas where it is needed.
Basically, we will implement legal arrangements that will strengthen the relationship between central and provincial governments and central and local governments in matters that create unnecessary burden for the central administration.
Accountability, transparency, participation
and within the framework of our quality-oriented principles
in the protection of the fundamental rights and freedoms of the state, of each and every citizen,
peace and security,
We will implement the practices required by the new system without forgetting that it is a tool for raising living standards and that the main purpose is to keep people alive.
We will create a governance mechanism that can manage people, information and financial resources more effectively, has the ability to organize quickly, take decisions quickly and produce solutions.
The new period will be a period in which the executive contributes to the legislative processes with better quality and monitoring, evaluation and audit will be more effective.
In this period when the strategically important functions of the state such as economy, social policy, foreign policy, security, intelligence and defense will be coordinated in a more proactive manner, we will more actively implement the decision-making, planning and directing function of the state.
In the new period, we will further advance our understanding of data and evidence-based policy development and make knowledge-based management dominant in state administration.
Taking into account historical experiences and the geography in which it is located, the state should be capable of responding quickly and effectively to crises that may arise.
In this framework, in the Presidential Government System, we will establish as simple a structure as possible in the public administration and ensure the creation of a public administration framework that is functional, free from conflicts and overlaps of duties, and that will enable strong and fast decision-making.
On the one hand, this structure will facilitate coordination and flexibility in public services, and on the other hand, it will allow for more effective and accurate actions.
We will reform our system of appointing senior executives in the new government system in order to avoid any disruption in service delivery to our citizens.
In this context, we will make arrangements to ensure an objective, merit-based and performance-based system in appointment processes.
Independent and Impartial Judiciary
We see justice as the foundation of property and legitimacy, the basis of the rule of law.
In our view, justice should be based on the rule of law, trusted by all, independent from all power centers, impartial and able to respond quickly to the needs of our citizens.
It is our fundamental principle that the judiciary is independent and impartial, that it provides legal guarantees to all our citizens and the international community, and that all its processes operate in accordance with international standards and democratic procedures.
It is not only a requirement of justice, but also a guarantee of our democracy that the judicial power should be in a framework that inspires confidence, ensures predictability, and does not dictate and is not influenced by ideology, political imagination or beliefs.
An independent and impartial judiciary is not only an institutional structure that ensures justice and guarantees the exercise of fundamental rights, but it
should also provide a framework that reduces uncertainty in an environment of legal predictability, enables production and investment decisions to be taken in a healthier and more qualified manner, and thus accelerates our development process.
After the transition to multi-party rule, almost constant government crises have also affected the independence and impartiality of the judiciary.
Past experience shows that without a strong government and an effective parliament, the judiciary can come under the influence of various sectors and hinder democratic functioning.
Our history is full of various examples of this.
During the February 28 coup d'état, the members of the judiciary were forced to applaud the coup plotters at gunpoint and attempted to carry out a judicial coup in the 367 crisis, but with the AK Party governments, they have taken important steps towards becoming independent and impartial.
Unity in the judiciary was ensured by ending the military judiciary except for disciplinary courts.
The reforms made by the AK Party governments in the name of judicial independence and impartiality have borne fruit and the Turkish judiciary did not bow down to the coup plotters for the first time in its history and achieved an important victory of judicial independence on the night of July 15th.
The April 16 constitutional amendment is a reform in itself.
Martial law courts, a form of emergency regime, were also abolished.
Martial law will no longer be declared in Turkey, nor will martial law courts, which come into effect during periods of martial law, be established again.
This approach, which emphasizes the principle of the natural judge even in times of emergency, is an extremely important step in strengthening judicial security and judicial security.
Thanks to the presidential government system, the independence and impartiality of the judiciary will be fully guaranteed.
Our judicial bodies will no longer be engaged only in judicial activities and will no longer be instrumentalized by tutelary structures and understandings.
Under the new system, the constitutional judiciary will review laws passed by parliament and presidential decrees, while the Council of State and administrative courts will review all government actions.
Thus, judicial security will increase even more in the new period.
STRONG DEMOCRACY
Since the day we took office in 2002 with the aim of serving our citizens, establishing justice in every field, developing our country and spreading prosperity throughout the country, we have always taken the national will as a requirement of our democracy.
We realized our actions in line with the expectations and needs of our citizens, the national will.
On the path of service that we set out with the claim of being the party of Turkey, we have solved many of Turkey's chronic problems during our governments.
While providing our services, we did not look at the belief system, sect, origin, culture and income level of our citizens.
As an important requirement of democracy, we have taken important steps to make our country a strong rule of law.
We have built our political understanding on the principles of democracy, service and responsibility.
We established a strong link between politics and the nation and rebuilt the political sphere on a legal basis.
In this journey, we have always aimed to take our democracy further.
The most important reason for the existence of the AK Party was to expand the rights and freedoms of our citizens.
We have expressed this goal in all our election manifestos and government programs so far.
We have demonstrated with our concrete practices that democracy also empowers our development process.
As the quality of our democracy has improved, our economic and human development
has accelerated and Turkey has become a more respected and attractive country in the international arena.
The steps taken as a result of the July 15 treacherous coup attempt, which was an attack on our democracy, will raise our democracy on healthier foundations in the medium and long term.
On the night of July 15, our people demonstrated their commitment to national will and democratic values at the cost of their lives, and showed the whole world their determination not to deal with coups again with an epic resistance.
On this occasion, we once again remember all our martyrs with mercy and express our gratitude to our veterans.
We see that democracy is an open-ended process and that there is a need to create new horizons at every stage.
After the June 24 elections, we will continue to further raise our democratic standards.
Where everyone can live as they believe and express their ideas freely with a participatory approach,
contributes to prosperity
and its rightful share of prosperity,
We will march into the future together as a society living in safety and peace.
Rights and Freedoms
As AK Party, we recognize individual rights and freedoms within the framework of the rule of law as a universal heritage and the fundamental moral reference of our constitutional order.
With this reference, during the period of our governments, we have considered it a fundamental duty to guarantee the fundamental rights and freedoms of our citizens and to eliminate the obstacles that restrict their exercise, and we will continue to do so in the future.
With our understanding of standing at an equal distance to all social segments, we embrace our unity based on the fundamental values of our nation and the bond of citizenship.
We believe that relations between the state and citizens should be based on justice and democracy and we continue to embrace all our citizens with a pluralistic approach.
Our accumulation of civilization and our spiritual values that elevate human beings are the assurance that we can build rights and freedoms on a solid ground in today's world as in the past.
With this assurance, rights and freedoms will be safeguarded in the period ahead,
further development on the basis of justice and democracy
and thereby increasing the social welfare of our people will be among our most important priorities.
a. What We Did
The founding philosophy of the AK Party is based on the removal of all obstacles to freedom of expression, belief and enterprise.
In line with this principle, we have taken many steps and implemented fundamental reforms in the field of rights and freedoms.
We have normalized social and political life by courageously addressing chronic problems, ensuring that society can live its values and beliefs and that different ways of life are respected.
During our 16 years in power, we have revised a significant part of the legislation and removed many undemocratic and prohibitive regulations.
We have significantly renewed the basic laws that were imposed on society during coup periods.
We removed obstacles to freedom of expression and expanded freedom of the press.
We introduced the rule that "expressions of thought made for the purpose of criticism do not constitute a crime" to all offenses related to freedom of expression and guaranteed the freedom of criticism.
We have made it a constitutional rule that printing houses, their annexes and press vehicles cannot be seized and confiscated or prevented from operating on the grounds that they are instruments of crime.
We have lifted thousands of previous publication ban, collection and confiscation orders.
We liberated works that had been banned, collected and confiscated.
We have made important reforms in the field of human rights.
We have positively changed Turkey's human rights record.
We have made it a constitutional rule that in cases where international agreements on rights and freedoms duly put into force and laws contain different provisions on the same subject, the provisions of international agreements shall prevail.
We ratified the 1966 "UN International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights" and the "UN International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights", which are among the most important universal human rights instruments.
We removed torture from Turkey's agenda.
With the zero-tolerance policy on torture, we increased the penalties for torture crimes and abolished the statute of limitations for the perpetrators of these crimes.
We ratified the "Optional Protocol to the UN Convention against Torture" and incorporated it into domestic law.
We ended the era of unsolved murders by fighting against mafias and gangs.
We have made ECtHR violation judgments a ground for renewal of proceedings in civil, criminal and administrative jurisdictions.
We prepared and implemented the "Action Plan for the Prevention of Human Rights Violations" within the framework of the case law of the ECtHR in order to address human rights issues one by one and to solve them within a certain timeframe.
We established the Human Rights and Equality Institution of Turkey with administrative and financial autonomy to protect and promote human rights.
We established the Ombudsman Institution to redress injustices suffered by our citizens against the administration and to finalize their complaints without going to court.
During the 28 February period, we ensured that those who were victimized could return to their professions.
The trial processes of those who caused victimization during this period are ongoing.
We have taken very important steps in individual remedies.
We introduced the right of individual application to the Constitutional Court.
On personal security, we have increased the penalties for disproportionate use of force.
We improved detention conditions and closed prisons that failed to meet UN and Council of Europe standards.
For the first time, we have regulated the protection of personal data of our citizens as a constitutional right.
By recognizing the right to information, we eliminated practices that made it impossible for citizens to obtain information.
Taking into account the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, we made fundamental changes in the legislation on children's rights.
We have implemented very important regulations on women's rights.
We made it a constitutional provision that women and men have equal rights.
At the UN, we ratified the "Protocol to Prevent, Suppress and Punish Trafficking in Persons, Especially Women and Children".
With the amendment we made to the Labor Law, we introduced provisions in favor of women.
We established the Commission for Equal Opportunities for Women and Men.
We made amendments to the penal code to strengthen women's rights.
We lifted restrictions on the dress code for female students, female public servants and members of parliament.
In this context, the headscarf and other restrictive regulations are now a thing of the past.
In this way, we have brought a fundamental solution to a problem that has been going on for years and that has created unnecessary tension in our society, in line with fundamental rights and the expectations of our nation.
In an environment where there is no security, one cannot talk about the rule of law, rights, freedoms and democracy.
The main purpose of our fight against terrorism is to ensure security, protect public order and
secure the rights and freedoms of our citizens.
Ultimately it is to protect democracy.
As soon as we came to power, we started to fight more effectively against the terrorist centers aimed at destroying the democratic structure of our country.
We put an end to the State of Emergency, which did not distinguish between citizens and terrorists, and to the policies of rejection, denial and assimilation.
We saw every humanitarian issue of our Kurdish citizens as a democracy and welfare issue.
We highlighted our common history, civilization and brotherhood ties.
We fought decisively against those who imposed huge costs on our citizens by pursuing pit politics and quickly eliminated the grievances caused by the terrorist organization.
We made it possible to broadcast in different languages and dialects on official state channels.
We lifted bans on political propaganda, cinema, video and music.
We made it possible for prisoners and convicts to meet with their relatives in their mother tongue, for academic studies to be conducted in different languages and dialects at universities, for institutes to be established, for these to be taught as elective courses in secondary education institutions, for our citizens to give their children the names they desire, for private schools to be opened that provide education in different languages and dialects, and we made keyboards free.
We strengthened the sense of belonging of all our citizens by demonstrating the will to overcome their problems in the field of rights and freedoms.
We restored the rights of those deprived of citizenship and the old names of settlements.
We have taken bold steps on different languages as well as different faiths and sects.
By organizing "Alevi Workshops" for the first time, we prepared the ground for discussing different interpretations of the Islamic faith in a freer environment and overcoming their problems in a democratic environment.
We organized workshops to solve the social problems of Roma citizens that have accumulated throughout the history of the Republic.
With the new Settlement Law, we eliminated discriminatory provisions against Roma.
Encouraged by the steps taken by our government, there has been a great increase in the number of associations and federations established by Roma citizens.
For the first time, we have implemented a systematic action plan to solve the problems of Roma citizens.
We have made fundamental changes to facilitate the acquisition of property by community foundations belonging to minorities and to expand their areas of freedom.
We have expanded the space for civil society as a requirement of an organized society.
We enacted a liberal Law on Associations and a Law on Trade Unions and Collective Bargaining.
We expanded the possibilities of exercising the right to assembly and demonstration
, we improved freedom of association.
We abolished the provision in our Constitution that one cannot be a member of more than one union at the same time and in the same line of work.
We improved the union rights of public employees by introducing the right to collective bargaining.
b. What We Will Do
Our main goal in the field of rights and freedoms is to realize a stronger understanding that embraces everyone, regardless of age, gender, socio-economic conditions, ethnic identity, sect and belief, and brings them to a democratic common life consciousness on the basis of equal citizenship and universal principles and values.
We will resolutely protect the gains we have made in the past in the field of rights and freedoms.
With a transformation of mindset and effective implementation, we will make our understanding that sees our differences as richness, not conflict, dominant in all areas of life.
We will continue to reinforce our unity and integrity within an understanding of citizenship based on inclusive and universal values.
We embrace our unity and the understanding of equal citizenship in the historical journey where the fundamental values of our nation are kneaded.
With this understanding, it will ensure that the state develops a fair, equal and democratic relationship with all social segments;
We will continue to embrace all elements of our social wealth with a pluralistic approach.
We will continue to oppose the imposition of identity and lifestyle on society.
We will continue to establish an environment where all our citizens live in security as free individuals, look to the future with hope, and are recognized and treated as first class.
We will continue to respect the way of life of every individual in society.
We will take the necessary steps on the basis of democratic consensus in dialogue with Alevi opinion leaders on various issues such as cemevis, healthy information in the education system, creating research and application centers in universities.
At this point, we will grant legal status to traditional wisdom centers and cemevis.
In the coming period, we will accelerate the solution of the problems of our Roma citizens, especially employment, housing and education problems, and eliminate all grounds for discrimination.
Securing the fundamental rights and freedoms of our non-Muslim citizens without any discrimination and ensuring that they live their beliefs freely will continue to be under the guarantee of the rule of law.
We will ensure that the political, administrative, judicial and economic order of the state is organized in a way that puts fundamental rights at the center.
Our goal of pluralist, egalitarian and participatory democracy will take Turkey even higher in the league of world democracies.
In this framework, we will make the TBMM Human Rights Inquiry Commission, the Ombudsman's Office and the Human Rights and Equality Institution of Turkey more effective.
We will continue our fight against bans and the prohibitionist mentality without interruption.
Since the day we were founded as AK Party, we have aimed to fight in 3 main areas.
These are the prohibitions we call the 3Ys,
Poverty
and corruption.
The part of the 3Rs that we emphasize in the area of fundamental rights and freedoms is prohibitions.
During our governments, we have expanded the area of freedom in many areas that were prohibited by the tutelary regimes, and we have removed prohibitions from our lives to a significant extent, and we will continue to do so in the coming period.
Unlike past practices, the state of emergency was declared after the July 15 coup attempt in order to clean up all terrorist organizations, especially the treacherous FETO organization that wanted to take over the state, without imposing any difficulties, restrictions or prohibitions on the daily lives of our citizens.
The main opposition was disturbed by the fact that the State of Emergency, which is a legitimate and democratic mechanism in terms of both our constitution and international law, was declared on July 20, 2016 in the Turkish Grand National Assembly in accordance with the bylaws and the mandatory provision of the constitution.
For the main opposition to call July 15th a controlled coup is an embarrassment for democratic politics.
Especially at a time when the world is reacting very strongly even in the face of singular terrorist incidents, our country's ability to fight against a multifaceted and intense terrorist threat within the law is an approach that should be appreciated.
The basic condition of rights and freedoms is that the security of life and property of citizens is ensured by the state.
On July 15th, we will continue the State of Emergency, which we had to initiate in the face of the treacherous coup attempt, which was the result of a half-century old foreign-backed insidious project, until our national security and the peace of our citizens are fully restored without harming the fundamental rights and freedoms of our citizens.
This secure environment accelerates the cleansing of gangs within institutions and guarantees the peace and freedom of our citizens to live in a safe environment.
Relationship between Religion and State
The AK Party recognizes secularism as the guarantee of religious freedoms and different lifestyles under the rule of law and the state's equal distance to all faith groups.
Secularism has acquired a rigid and oppressive character in our democratic history under the shadow of single-party era practices and coup periods.
Instead of securing freedom of belief, secularism, which is used as an instrument of power, has been turned into an instrument of oppression against religious groups by the focal points of tutelage within the state.
It should not be forgotten that our nation, with its deep-rooted history and vast experience, has long enjoyed some of the gains of secularism.
Anatolia's Islamic and lore culture is full of rich examples of an ancient experience of coexistence.
Great thinkers such as Hacı Bektaş-ı Veli, Mevlana, Yunus Emre and Sarı Saltuk, whose influence continues to this day, have enlightened our path.
In Anatolia, the Balkans and the Middle East, people of different religions were able to live in peace and security.
Taking this vast historical experience into account, the AK Party has adopted as a principle an interpretation and implementation of secularism in line with the realities of Turkey.
The state cannot impose any belief or ideology on other beliefs, nor can it directly intervene in people's beliefs and ideologies.
The state acts in a fair and equal manner towards different beliefs in society.
The AK Party considers secularism as the guarantee of the continuation of religious life and spiritual environment in our country in peace and well-being.
One of the main goals of the AK Party is to eliminate the tension between society and the state arising from interference in beliefs, and to reconcile the nation and the state by preventing society from looking at the state with suspicion.
Eliminating points of tension between the state and our nation means eliminating artificial tensions and troubles within the country.
The way such a comprehensive peace can be achieved is through an interpretation and practice of secularism that harmonizes universal legal norms with the realities of the country.
The State supports the institutions and organizations of its citizens for the purpose of learning about their religion and beliefs.
The law protecting religious freedoms does not allow the abuse of these freedoms.
The state does not interfere with religion, nor does it allow religion and faith groups to dominate each other and the state system.
One of our main principles is to fight against parallel structures that organize in society by exploiting people's beliefs, or that interfere with the state and civil politics.
With the democratization led by the AK Party and the supremacy of the national will, oppressive secularism began to give way to an understanding of secularism that stands at an equal distance to beliefs.
In this process, secularism takes on its true meaning, as it does in advanced democracies.
Anatolia is a place where different religions and cultures have lived throughout history.
Many members of many faiths, especially Christians and Jews, have continued to exist within this culture, and the ancient culture of coexistence that comes from the values of our nation has been the best evidence of this.
To this end, important steps have been taken to solve the problems of citizens of different religions and to restore the rights of their foundations and other institutions.
Accordingly, restrictions and pressures on religious community foundations and their structures were lifted, closed temples were reopened for worship, and the properties of these foundations were returned to their owners.
In the new era, the AK Party will continue to ensure that all faith groups are free to live their beliefs and identities without any discrimination.
Participation and Civil Society
A democratic rule of law at advanced standards is only possible through the establishment of a dynamic social structure based on citizen participation and supported by a strong civil society.
As AK Party, with the practices we have realized in the last 16 years, we have adopted the principle of maintaining the culture of consultation and participation at the highest level, starting from within the Party, and taking the fundamental issues to our people.
In this context, we aim to make participation more institutionalized at all levels, to strengthen the regulatory role of the state for the healthy functioning of civil society, and to make it more active, transparent and accountable to society.
a. What We Did
During our 16 years in power, the AK Party has paid special attention to the development of an active civil society in Turkey.
By making important administrative and legal arrangements for Civil Society Organizations (CSOs), we created an environment more conducive to the right and freedom of association.
By improving the legislation concerning associations and foundations, we took steps to improve cooperation between the public sector and CSOs and increase their effectiveness.
We have consulted with civil society actors in the preparation of key reforms.
We launched the EU-Turkey Civil Society Dialogue Programmes, contributing to the development of civil society and greater recognition of civil society organizations at local level.
We have strengthened the role of the public sector as a regulator and neutral supporter with general guidelines to enable CSOs to be more involved in our social life.
We granted tax privileges and public funds to CSOs within the framework of public benefit and tax exemption.
We paved the way for the establishment of public-NGO collaborations.
In this context, we make resources available to CSOs and ensure the realization of joint projects through grant programs carried out by the Attraction Centers Support Program, Social Support Program (SODES), Development Agencies and various Ministries.
As of 2018, the number of associations in Turkey increased from 76,447 to 113,073.
b. What We Will Do
We will prepare a framework legislation to establish a more participatory social structure in the coming period leading to 2023.
With a holistic and democratic approach, we will regulate areas such as the legal status, institutional structures, activities, relations with public institutions and financial resources of civil society organizations.
The regulations will not narrow the civic space and will enable our civil society organizations to realize their objectives in a more transparent manner.
In order to contribute to the formation of a strong civil society integrated with the modern world and to provide more effective services to civil society, existing institutional structures in the public sector will be strengthened and personnel capacity will be increased in terms of quality and quantity.
CSOs will play a greater role in community service.
We will also provide training seminars and international exchange programs for CSOs to better understand the mutual roles of CSOs and the public sector.
We will reduce bureaucracy.
We will enable associations to carry out all their business and transactions electronically.
We will focus on capacity building activities for CSOs to create a transparent and accountable institutional structure.
We will continue to expand and effectively implement financial support programs for associations in order to develop civil society in line with the 2023 vision.
We will increase the development opportunities for associations of groups requiring special policies.
We will focus on improving the capacities of security guards and associations of relatives of martyrs and veterans, and on supporting projects of NGOs working for the disabled, family protection, violence against women and children, youth and segments of society in need of special attention.
Transparency
We see transparency as an indispensable basis for the accountability of governments in a democratic environment.
Transparency also has an important function in preventing the use of public resources, facilities and practices for personal benefit and preventing unfair competition.
Transparency is a key determinant of improving quality in governance.
As the Justice and Development Party, it is our basic motto that all the work we carry out on behalf of our citizens, whom we see as the true and sole owners of the state, is carried out in a transparent, participatory and accountable manner.
We know that the basis of a successful and transparent administration based on the needs and demands of our citizens is justice-based.
This is the basis of our determination to fight corruption in our public administration policies and practices.
a. What We Did
As AK Party, we have taken great steps for the transparency of public administration in the last 16 years.
We launched the Strategy for Increasing Transparency and Strengthening the Fight against Corruption.
We amended the Laws on Municipalities, Metropolitan Municipalities, Special Provincial Administrations and Local Administration Unions in order to increase the institutional capacity of local governments and strengthen decentralization and democracy by ensuring participation and transparency.
With the Right to Information Law, we paved the way for our citizens to access all kinds of information and documents they need, except for the exceptions specified in the law.
With institutions and practices such as the Parliamentary Petition Commission, BIMER and CIMER, we have created a state and bureaucracy accountable to citizens 24 hours a day.
Through the Ombudsman Institution, we have provided our citizens with the right to accountability.
We established the Ethics Committee for Public Officials to determine ethical rules and standards for public officials and to investigate complaints against senior public officials who violate these principles.
We strengthened the legal and institutional infrastructure to increase transparency on the basis of accountability.
We strengthened fiscal transparency by ensuring the production of reliable and periodic financial data.
By assigning responsibility to the public units where each expenditure is made, we have enabled the audits of expenditures.
By renewing the Law on Court of Accounts, we expanded the scope of the audit to ensure that public administrations operate effectively, economically, efficiently and in accordance with the law.
We increased public accountability.
We enacted the Banking Law to ensure confidence, stability and transparency in financial markets, the effective functioning of the credit system and the protection of the rights and interests of savers.
With the amendment made to the Foreign Direct Investment Law, we created a clear, comprehensible and transparent direct investment legislation that takes into account the needs and expectations of investors.
By enacting the Press Law, we ensured the most widespread and rapid circulation of ideas and news and the informing of the public.
Since the day we were founded as the Justice and Development Party, we have continued to fight against corruption, which is one of the 3Ys we have adopted as our motto.
We said that this struggle starts with an accountable budget.
We have not only increased the budget, but we have also held our people accountable for the budget and the resources we have used.
We started transparency in this regard from our Party and shared all our revenues and expenses with our citizens in an exemplary way.
In order to fight corruption more effectively, the penal arrangements imposed on the individual were first made during our governments.
We enacted the Law on Misdemeanors, which allows administrative fines to be imposed on private law legal entities.
We have amended the Turkish Penal Code on corruption crimes such as bribery, extortion, embezzlement and laundering of assets derived from crime, which can be committed by Turkish or foreign public officials.
In order to establish an effective system in the fight against corruption, we introduced new measures and regulations with the amendment we made to the Criminal Procedure Law.
We have implemented regulations and practices to ensure compliance with international developments in the fight against crime, strengthen cooperation with the financial sector and establish a strong data system.
We have signed the UN Convention on the Criminalization of Bribery, the Council of Europe Civil Law Convention against Corruption, the OECD Convention on Combating Bribery of Foreign Public Officials in International Business Transactions, the United Nations Convention against Transnational Organized Crime, the Council of Europe Convention on Laundering, Search, Seizure and Confiscation of the Proceeds from Crime, the Criminal Law Convention against Corruption, the Convention on the Taking of Evidence in Foreign Countries in Civil and Commercial Matters, and the UN Convention against Corruption.
We enacted the Law on Prevention of Laundering Proceeds of Crime and the Anti-Smuggling Law.
We carried out work on the prevention of laundering proceeds of crime.
We launched the "national marker" practice, which was put into effect as part of the fight against fuel smuggling.
Furthermore, Turkey became a member of the Council of Europe's Group of States against Corruption (GRECO), which is active in the field of anti-corruption.
b. What We Will Do
In the period ahead, we will strengthen our participatory democracy with a more transparent and accountable administration and we will
continue our fight against all forms of corruption with determination.
As AK Party, we are committed to being transparent, participatory and accountable in public administration in the new governance model, as we were in the past.
In this context, we will ensure that legal and institutional arrangements are made through mechanisms that will increase participation and transparency.
Systematic measurement and sharing of implementation and post-implementation impacts, as well as during the preparation phase, will be an important agenda item in the period ahead.
With a holistic approach in the fight against corruption, we will ensure a healthy government-citizen-civil society and media dialogue.
Reassuring Justice
Since the day we were founded as AK Party, we have prioritized the concept of "justice", which we named our party, above everything else.
Our Party will continue to be the guarantor of the rule of law.
We consider it our duty to ensure that justice in our country is based on the rule of law, trusted by all, independent from any power center, impartial and able to respond quickly to the needs of our citizens.
We see justice, which is the foundation of property and legitimacy, as the basis of the democratic state of law.
It is our fundamental sensitivity to protect and develop the social and state order on the axis of law and justice.
In a democratic state of law, where democracy comes into existence through law, respect for the universal principles of law, open remedies, equality before the law,
Protecting individual rights and freedoms and ensuring the state's adherence to the law are our main priorities.
These goals can only be realized through a constitution, laws and an independent judiciary.
In our government, we saw justice not only in courtrooms, but also as a social value where our people can get their rights before their sweat dries and benefit equally from public services.
The ideal of the rule of law and the rule of law, not just rights and freedoms,
We also envision it as a requirement of a sustainable development and welfare approach.
We firmly believe that a well-functioning justice system that guarantees the exercise of fundamental rights will reduce uncertainty by increasing predictability and provide a framework that accelerates our development process by ensuring that production and investment decisions are made in a healthier and more qualified manner.
With this understanding, to improve justice services in our country, especially legal regulations, and to realize the social goal of justice
and reinforcing the bond of trust between our citizens and the state by reflecting this in the economic sphere will continue to be our main priority.
a. What We Did
On April 16, 2017, we introduced the presidential government system for a strong Turkey with the constitutional reform sealed by our nation.
With the reforms we have implemented to protect and promote rights and freedoms, we have made the rights and freedoms enshrined in the Constitution concretely exercisable and enjoyable.
We rejected all forms of discrimination.
We regulated discrimination and hate crimes for the first time in the Turkish Penal Code.
We have made it a constitutional provision that courts should be impartial as well as independent.
With the constitutional amendment, we paved the way for the national will to be reflected in the administration of the judiciary by enabling the Grand National Assembly of Turkey to elect members to the HSK.
With the constitutional amendment, we abolished all military courts except disciplinary courts, thus resolving the issue of judicial duality that has been discussed for many years.
We abolished state security courts and specially authorized courts.
By introducing the right of individual application to the Constitutional Court, we brought international standards in the protection of fundamental rights and freedoms into our domestic law.
In order to protect the personal data of our citizens more effectively, we have constitutionally guaranteed the protection of personal data.
We renewed all fundamental laws, especially the Turkish Penal Code.
We expanded freedoms by lifting bans to strengthen the culture of living together.
The perpetrators of the September 12 and February 28 coups were tried by independent and impartial courts and held accountable before justice.
We opened to judicial review the dismissal decisions of the Supreme Military Council and the HSK, as well as the warning and reprimand penalties imposed on public officials.
We kept remedies open and functioning during the state of emergency.
We established a fully independent State of Emergency Inquiry Commission.
Through mediation in civil law and reconciliation in criminal law, we ensured that disputes are resolved without going to court.
We have increased the problem-solving capacity of society.
With the mediation practice in labor disputes, we paved the way for our workers to regain their rights in a shorter time.
We ensured that criminal disputes are resolved through reconciliation.
We reformed the expert witness system and introduced the principle that expert witnesses should be selected among competent, expert and accredited persons.
We have introduced a pre-investigation pre-assessment process to ensure that our citizens' right not to be tarnished by abstract and groundless complaints or complaints that do not constitute a crime.
We have made reforms to facilitate the business environment through legal changes.
We strengthened access to justice.
We ensured that everyone in need of legal assistance is assigned a lawyer upon request and those who cannot afford one are exempt from litigation costs.
In civil lawsuits, we have regularly increased the budget allocated for legal aid for citizens with insufficient financial means every year and ensured that they can benefit from it more easily.
We facilitated execution and bankruptcy proceedings.
We modernized the enforcement and bankruptcy offices and put an end to the victimization caused by enforcement and bankruptcy proceedings.
We prevented possible irregularities by ensuring that the payments to be made to the enforcement offices are made entirely through the bank.
We have introduced the possibility of electronic bidding for auctions in order to prevent the sale of seized goods below their value and thus protect the rights of debtors and creditors.
We eliminated the queues for criminal records at courthouses.
We ended the fees charged for criminal records.
We strengthened the human and technical infrastructure to improve judicial processes.
We increased the number of courts.
By establishing the courts of appeal, we moved from a two-tier judiciary to a three-tier judiciary.
We have more than doubled the number of judicial and auxiliary personnel in the last sixteen years.
We established the Turkish Justice Academy to train judges and prosecutors.
For the training of our justice personnel, we established personnel training centers for the first time and ensured that they receive more efficient and quality training.
Since 2002, we have completed the construction of a total of 241 justice service buildings.
We now provide judicial services entirely through the information system.
Thanks to UYAP, we have made it possible for citizens and lawyers to file lawsuits through the system with e-signature without going to the courthouse.
Our citizens are instantly informed about judicial proceedings against them through the SMS Information System.
We established the Audio and Video Information System (SEGBİS).
Thus, citizens no longer need to travel to distant courts to testify in many cases.
We expanded forensic medicine services across the country.
In 2002, we increased the number of group directorates from 6 to 9 and the number of branch directorates from 18 to 71.
In all 81 provinces, we ensured the provision of forensic medicine services.
We closed 298 prisons that did not meet international standards.
With our reforms, we have created a penal execution system that meets international standards and developments in the field of human rights and responds to social needs.
We have ensured that the Law and Justice course is taught in the 6th, 7th and 8th grades of primary education in order to raise our children with legal awareness.
We established the overseas organization of the Ministry of Justice in order to carry out international civil and criminal judicial cooperation more effectively, healthily and expeditiously.
b. What We Will Do
As a democratic country, Turkey is committed to protecting the freedoms of its citizens through the rule of law,
will continue to reassure the international community and be a safe haven for domestic and foreign investors.
In the period ahead, one of our main priorities will be to maintain the independence and impartiality of the judiciary and to ensure that our justice system serves at advanced standards through radical reforms.
As it has been until today, AK Party governments will act on the basis of the principle of the rule of law.
We will protect everyone's rights and law.
Ensuring the exercise of rights and freedoms in the broadest framework will remain our main priority.
Judicial independence and impartiality,
respect for human rights and freedoms;
commitment to competence and merit; accountability and transparency;
Excellence in service, sensitivity to citizen expectations and openness to innovation will be our guiding principles in the development of justice services.
We will continue to keep the reform process alive to make the judicial system more transparent, accountable and effective.
In the coming period, we will update our judicial reform strategy in line with our 2023 vision.
We will develop protective legal practices to increase public awareness of and respect for the law.
We will ensure the development of legal protection insurance, which is very new in Turkey.
We will ensure that the quality of justice services is continuously improved.
We will listen to the voice of the people.
We will continuously review our targets and performance through satisfaction surveys.
Justice services; rule of law, independence and impartiality of the judiciary
and we will continue to strive for fair, fast and effective delivery on the basis of human rights.
We will continue to streamline and simplify the system and judicial processes to strengthen citizens' access to justice.
We will strengthen the right to a trial within a reasonable time through time management in the judiciary.
We will implement the target deadlines we have set for the timely delivery of justice in all types of cases and crimes.
We will expand IT integration between courthouses and other public institutions in order to shorten judicial work processes.
We will expand specialized courts for faster and more effective administration of justice.
We will expand the judiciary of appeal and establish new courts of appeal in new regions.
We will put Diyarbakır, Kayseri, Konya, Sakarya, Trabzon and Van Courts of Appeal into operation.
We will continue to renovate courthouses with a citizen-friendly approach.
We will establish Forensic Support and Victim Services Directorates within the courthouses and expand the "Forensic Interview Rooms" for children and victims to all courthouses.
We will extend the front offices and information desks in some courthouses to other courthouses based on citizen satisfaction.
We will continue our efforts to further improve the penal system that we have modernized.
We are moving to a victim-oriented approach to justice.
We will secure victims' rights with a separate legal regulation and establish an institutional structure in this regard.
We will continue to strengthen the juvenile justice system with a best interest of the child perspective.
We will put an end to the practice of taking the child as a commodity by removing child delivery and personal relationship transactions with the child from being carried out through execution.
We will toughen the sanctions for sexual crimes against children.
We will ensure deterrence by increasing the penalties for some crimes and misdemeanors, especially those that disrupt social order.
We will further expand mediation in civil disputes and conciliation in criminal matters.
We will improve our institutional and technical infrastructure in the field of arbitration and mediation.
We will increase the competence of judicial personnel with a continuous training perspective.
We will keep the professional knowledge and competence of judicial and auxiliary personnel at a high level through pre-professional and in-professional trainings.
We will implement a reform of legal education.
Legal education will be reviewed as a whole and the curricula of law faculties will be updated in line with the requirements of the age.
In this context, we will ensure the training of qualified lawyers in specialized areas such as air and space law, cyber security, forensic genetics law and maritime law.
We will strengthen the legal profession.
We will implement the notary reform.
We will fulfill our international obligations in the fight against crime and delinquency, as we have done so far, and we will work proactively to ensure that other countries fulfill these obligations.
Living in Trust
For us, security means not only the maintenance of public order, but also the creation of a healthy social environment in which our citizens feel safe both mentally and physically.
Freedom as a requirement of our political understanding that considers the human as the center
and security balance in all areas of social life in a way that complements each other is our main goal.
With this approach, security services should be used with the aim of achieving the goal of a strong democracy.
We define it as the basic public service needed to guarantee and fully exercise fundamental rights and freedoms.
a. What We Did
During our governments, we have emphasized security in our actions and the importance of living freedoms in security,
the democratic will of the nation
and as a means of maintaining public order.
With this approach, which represents an important paradigm shift in the understanding of security, our first priority has been to ensure that our people live in peace and prosper.
We have improved coherence and policies between our law enforcement agencies through the following procedures.
We have strengthened integration and coordination.
We have established policy documents on common issues.
We increased service quality and efficiency.
We have increased the use of technology and technical capacity.
We established a system for measuring and evaluating law enforcement activities.
By implementing more effective and result-oriented security policies in public order incidents, we have endeavored to establish the security of our country at the highest level and to improve social peace and tranquility.
In this context, by implementing the Community Supported Policing practice, we ensured that our police are in closer relations with our citizens, that trust in the police increases, and that police-public cooperation is established.
We have revised our legislation according to this approach.
We restructured security institutions accordingly.
We have established Mobile License Plate Recognition Systems (MPTS) in order to increase effectiveness in the fight against crime and criminality.
In this way, we ensure the capture of wanted vehicles and prevent the commission of crimes by increasing deterrence.
We have given great importance and priority to preventive law enforcement services in order to prevent crimes before they are committed.
We ensured that all institutions, universities and non-governmental organizations worked in coordination with law enforcement units.
We have increased the number of special units and upgraded their capabilities through the procurement of modern vehicles, equipment, software and training.
In the past, Turkey was one of the countries accused of "unidentified perpetrators", but by increasing the capacity of criminal units operating at the crime scene, raising the training level of forensic law enforcement units, and enabling law enforcement units to work together by providing joint interrogation opportunities, we have achieved a record that is praised rather than criticized during our period in power.
As AK Party governments, we have fought and continue to fight against elements that threaten our national security and public order.
In this context; we are fighting against all terrorist elements in every field with the spirit of national mobilization.
Today, we are neutralizing terrorist organization elements wherever they are found, without waiting for them to act.
We are waging a tremendous struggle against the most dangerous terrorist organizations, which even one of the world's powerful countries has difficulty in combating, at the same time and alone, and we will continue to do so.
As a result of the effective and coordinated struggle of our security forces between December 2015 and May 2016, we were able to disrupt the PKK/KCK terrorist organization's actions in some urban centers.
With our security forces in the cities and countryside, we have made terrorists unable to move.
We have destroyed all terrorist hideouts inside and outside our borders.
We have transformed our understanding of the fight against terrorism into a strategy of destroying it at its source.
Starting from the same period, we defeated the DAESH terrorist organization, which tried to threaten our borders, create instability within the country and create the perception that Turkey is not a safe country in the eyes of the international public opinion.
We defeated FETÖ, which failed to achieve its goals in the December 17/25 judicial coup attempt and attempted a treacherous coup attempt on July 15, 2016, with the political leadership of our statesmen, led by our President, our sainted nation and the resistance of our security forces loyal to their country.
The fight against the organization has reached an important stage at home and abroad.
We continue our efforts to bring the criminal elements of FETÖ to Turkish justice.
We have eliminated a significant part of their structures within the state, and we are continuing to dismantle their remaining elements.
With Operation Euphrates Shield, which we carried out in order to eliminate the threat posed by DAESH on our borders and to prevent the PYD/YPG terrorist organization from crossing west of the Euphrates River, we cleared DAESH terrorist organization from our borders and prevented the terror corridor that the PYD/YPG terrorist organization wanted to create in northern Syria. On
20 January 2018, we successfully concluded Operation Zeytindalı, which we launched against the PKK-PYD/YPG and DAESH terrorist organizations operating in Syria, and cleared the Afrin region from terrorist organizations. In 2017,
we conducted a total of 86,862 operations, including 56,925 operations against the PKK-KCK terrorist organization, 1,391 operations against the DAESH terrorist organization, 28,181 operations against the FETO terrorist organization and 365 operations against illegal leftist terrorist organizations.
We have employed professional personnel in all units actively fighting terrorism.
We have also established additional professional units and commands in areas where they are needed.
We have provided our security forces with high-tech capabilities and capabilities in their fight against terrorism, and we have minimized the movement and impact capacity of terrorist organizations with UAVs and UCAVs produced with domestic and national capabilities.
We enacted the Law on Prevention of Financing of Terrorism to combat terrorism and its financing.
As a result of the measures we have taken and our decisive struggle, the number of people joining the organization decreased by 79 percent in 2017 compared to 2016 and reached the lowest level in the last 30 years.
In 2017 and 2018, the leaders of the terrorist organization suffered their biggest losses.
In the same period, the DHKP-C and far-left terrorist organizations suffered the biggest losses in their history.
We fought drugs more effectively within the General Directorate of Security.
For this purpose, we established the Department of Narcotics.
We have established NARKOTİMs to prevent our children from being poisoned with drugs, especially around schools.
We struck a blow to the financial resources of the separatist terrorist organization and drug traffickers.
We carried out planned operations in illegal cultivation areas where the organization is concentrated.
We fought more effectively against smuggling and organized crime, another financial source of terrorist organizations.
We have increased the technical and training capacity of law enforcement agencies.
We carried out activities to identify the proceeds of crime.
We have strengthened our institutional structure to fight irregular migration and migrant smuggling more actively.
We have continuously improved our technical and physical infrastructure by utilizing the latest technologies for the establishment of security and public order.
In this context, we have implemented the Gendarmerie Integrated Communication System (JEMUS), which is established and operated by the Gendarmerie General Command and can provide uninterrupted communication in all weather conditions and in disasters such as earthquakes, etc. in most of our country.
We have provided 81 provinces and large districts, especially in tourism regions, with MOBESE systems that make a great contribution to crime prevention and illumination.
We have established modern criminal laboratories with the most advanced technological facilities in crime and incident investigation.
We have integrated the fingerprint and ballistics databases of the Gendarmerie and the Police in order to ensure that forensic incidents are quickly clarified, and we have created the opportunity to query at the provincial level.
We expanded the Emergency Call Centers Project, which aims to gather multiple emergency call numbers under a single number (112).
We have increased the number of personnel, including police, gendarmerie, coast guard and security guards, to 522,211 in total.
We established Security and Emergency Coordination Centers (GAMER) in 81 provinces to ensure coordination in emergencies caused by incidents that disrupt public order and security.
We completed the installation of KGYS (Urban Security Management Systems) in 22 provinces in the East and Southeast.
We conducted risk analyses of schools by the Ministry of National Education and the General Directorate of Security and equipped a total of 1,000 schools with security camera systems, in addition to 762 schools identified by the Ministry of National Education as Grade 1 risk schools.
We remain committed to the fight against cybercrime.
We have prepared an action plan to combat these crimes and established a special unit within the General Directorate of Security.
As a result of our government's work on road and traffic safety, we have reduced deaths in traffic accidents by 30.2 percent in the last 10 years.
With the policies we have implemented and the actions we have taken, we have made Turkey one of the countries with the lowest crime rate in Europe in terms of security and public order.
Today, our country is among the leading countries in Europe in terms of crime clearance rates.
b. What We Will Do
In the period ahead, we will continue to crack down decisively and without compromise on all structures that disrupt the security and public order environment and that may pose pressure and threats to our citizens' enjoyment of their freedoms.
Cities around the world are facing a new security challenge.
A new understanding is being developed on irregular migration, terrorism, foreign terrorist fighters, drugs, public order and traffic.
As Turkey, we recognize the importance of these risks emerging all over the world in the new period.
We established the Urban Security Management System (KGYS) to build safe and peaceful cities in developing Turkey.
Under the coordination of KGYS, we continue our efforts with a holistic approach to reduce public order incidents, increase illumination rates and eliminate all security risks.
We will continue our practices that will make all our streets peaceful by switching to a neighborhood and district-centered security system.
In this context, we will expand the practice of neighborhood watchmen.
We will continue to implement our security and public order policies that embrace all segments of our society.
We will facilitate access to security services especially for women, children, disabled and elderly citizens.
We will prioritize preventive and protective security services and move towards risk management.
We will ensure that law enforcement units, public institutions, universities, non-governmental organizations work in harmony and cooperation in preventive law enforcement duties within the scope of preventing the commission of crimes.
We will review the functions of law enforcement agencies and continue to work with an understanding that is integrated with the public at every point of security service and that will make the work of our citizens easier.
In order to provide fully on-site services to our citizens, we will equip law enforcement units with the latest technology and implement projects that will eliminate the victimization of our citizens in the process of access and transportation to law enforcement units and bring services to our citizens.
Specialized training of law enforcement agencies will be emphasized.
We will not tolerate violent propaganda.
We will develop projects in the field of information technologies to prevent the spread of illegal content that incites violence on the internet.
We will fight against organized crime, cybercrime, narcotic crimes and smuggling.
We will strengthen cooperation between national and international organizations and continue our determined fight against these crimes as we have done so far.
We will establish free trade zones for legal products near the southern and eastern borders of our country and prevent smuggling by taking alternative measures for illegal products.
We will fight with determination against the environment and focal points that support international and regional terrorism, as we have done so far.
We will maintain our principled stance against terrorism in our geography, no matter where it originates and from whom it comes.
We will proactively fight against all terrorist elements, especially FETÖ, PKK and DAESH, and emphasize social and economic policies in the fight against terrorism.
This stance and struggle will be based on the rule of law;
We will further support security services with mechanisms that will increase transparency, participation and accountability, and further strengthen the trust of our citizens in security services.
In order to combat the propaganda of terrorist organizations, we will further explain the services of our state to the public through mass media and other methods and strengthen public diplomacy activities abroad.
We will ensure that cooperation activities with countries and international organizations fighting against terrorism will be improved and continued.
We will increase coordination and investigative efficiency in the fight against terrorist financing.
We will increase the capabilities and capabilities of local administrative authorities in the field of border management.
We will bring mined lands into the economy.
We will clear all minefields and areas contaminated with unexploded ordnance in an area of approximately 180 million square meters and open them to agriculture, animal husbandry, trade and settlement.
We will ensure the transfer of military areas, especially in city centers, which are no longer needed for use, to the relevant institutions for the service of citizens.
We will increase security measures to combat drugs and continue to crack down on criminal organizations in this field with determination.
In this context, we will strengthen our personnel and technical capacity in combating the illicit production, trade and use of drugs.
We will improve coordination among organizations active in the fight against drugs and increase cooperation with neighboring countries and in the international arena.
Within the scope of the Anti-Drug Program, we will expand cooperation channels with civil society organizations and support projects on the fight against drugs.
We will continue to take all kinds of measures to improve the quality and quantity of our personnel in the field of security services and to ensure their professionalization.
We will increase the professionalization rate of the Gendarmerie General Command personnel, of which 59 percent were professionalized in 2017, to 65 percent in 2018 and 100 percent in 2023.
We will continue to make arrangements to increase the effectiveness, morale and motivation of our rangers as we have done so far.
We will continue to improve our technical and physical infrastructure for the establishment of security and public order.
We will ensure that the transactions carried out by law enforcement officers within the scope of judicial duties are carried out with e-Signature and/or biometric signature through a law enforcement portal to be integrated into UYAP, without taking our citizens to the police station and without using paper printouts, eliminating the mistakes of judicial law enforcement personnel.
We will have completed the Gendarmerie Integrated Communication and Information System (JEMUS), which was developed entirely using national technologies and solutions, in 81 provinces by 2023.
We will continue to work on the Coastal Surveillance Radar System (SGRS), which will be our eyes on our seas.
We will increase the capacity and capabilities of GAMER's coordination unit, which has also developed a mobile application.
In addition to the work carried out to prevent incidents in schools and their surroundings, we will continue to install camera systems that will dominate the school surroundings.
In line with 2023 targets, we will ensure the completion of school security cameras within the scope of risky schools with the means of the governorship and their integration into the city security management system.
In order to ensure effectiveness in the fight against crime and criminals and to increase visibility, we will accelerate and continue Peace Enforcement Practices.
With the increase in the technological capacity of criminal laboratories, the time to clarify the crime, which decreased by 50 percent from 27 days to 14 days compared to 2016, will be further shortened with the strengthening of technological capacity.
We will continue projects that will reinforce our national unity and brotherhood.
We will continue to carry out our projects aiming to keep our children away from the abuse of terrorist organizations and bad habits by improving the spirit and awareness of brotherhood in society, sharing our national and spiritual values and transferring them to future generations, sharing our cultural and common values, and strengthening the bond of brotherhood.
In this context, we will reach 35 thousand more children in 2018.
Thus, we will reach a total of 50 thousand children from the Eastern and South Eastern provinces.
We will resolutely implement the policies developed for traffic safety under the Traffic Safety Implementation Policy Document.
We will further focus on traffic safety measures and practices such as highway average speed corridors and reduce accident rates to the lowest level.
HUMAN AND SOCIETY
Since the day it was founded, within the framework of the motto "let people live so that the state may live", the leader, organizations and volunteers of our Party have aimed to produce politics for people, to touch people and to make people live in the most beautiful way in all their thoughts and practices.
With this awareness, during the period of our governments, we have defined the phenomenon of education not only as a necessary investment area that will increase the material welfare of our country, but also as a dynamic and continuous learning process that will ensure the revival of our cultural and social existence.
Education with this understanding
and improving the quality of health,
bringing its dynamic population together with qualified jobs,
preserving the structure of the family
women, youth, children
and we will continue to be a government that gives its employees the place, importance and support they deserve.
While we see our children as potential youth and our youth as the guarantee of our future, we will continue our human-centered development approach by providing them with the physical, cultural and artistic environment they deserve in a better quality.
Rights and Freedoms
It is only possible to achieve the goal of an advanced democratic society through investments in education.
Since 2002, we have made significant progress in the field of education.
In this process, the Turkish education system has undergone a serious transformation at every stage in terms of quality and quantity.
In this process, in which our stable political power was combined with a strong and visionary leadership, we acted with two fundamental priorities.
First, we focused on eliminating the rigid ideological, uniform and anti-democratic character of education inherited from previous years.
Secondly, we have improved our education system in terms of human, physical, scientific and technological infrastructure in a way that is incomparable with the past and that meets the standards of the contemporary world.
We take a holistic approach to education and position it on a multi-dimensional basis.
Our ultimate goal is to reveal our potential based on our historical, social and cultural reality in all its dimensions and to create a space of freedom that extends from the individual to society, from the local to the universal and from the past to the future.
a. What We Did
Our main mission has been to ensure that all our children have equal access to education and training, acquire the knowledge and skills required by the age, gain an entrepreneurial and innovative perspective, have self-confidence and responsibility, and be raised as healthy and happy individuals.
We have allocated very high shares to the education budget.
Under our governments, for the first time in the history of the Republic, the highest share of the central government budget was allocated to education.
We increased our total education budget by 14 times from 9.3 billion TL in 2002 to 134.7 billion TL in 2018.
Justice in education has been our main motto.
We increased compulsory education to 12 years with 3 stages and changed the curriculum accordingly.
We have prepared a brand new curriculum that protects our values and emphasizes values such as democracy, rule of law and justice.
We removed divisive and marginalizing elements, explicit and implicit messages from the curriculum.
By increasing the number of elective courses, we gave our students the opportunity to choose according to their interests and abilities.
In order for our young people to learn Islam from the right sources, we have made sure that "Holy Quran" and "Siyer" courses are also offered as elective courses.
We introduced free dress code for all students.
We liberalized the headscarf for academic staff, teachers and higher and secondary education students.
We abolished the coefficient injustice applied to vocational and imam hatip high schools.
We increased teacher employment.
In 15 years, we increased the number of teachers to 1 million by appointing 586 thousand teachers.
In the last 16 years, despite the increase in the number of students at all levels of formal education, we have reduced the number of students per teacher in primary and secondary education from 24 to 16.
We included our disabled teachers in employment.
We appointed 3 thousand 203 disabled brothers and sisters.
With the motto of always standing by sports and athletes, we also included our national athletes in employment.
In this context, we appointed 950 national athletes as teachers.
With these appointments, we managed to increase the norm staffing rate to 91 percent across the country.
In 2002, a new teacher earning a total income of 635 TL including salary and additional course fee; in 2018, we increased the income of a teacher at the same level to 3,836 TL.
We increased schooling rates at all levels of education.
Between 2002-2003 and 2017-2018, the number of students in pre-school education increased from 320 thousand to 1.3 million and the schooling rate from 11.2 percent to 50.4 percent.
Our policy of making pre-school education completely free of charge has been the main driving factor in this rise.
The number of students in primary education increased from around 10 million to 10.4 million and the enrollment rate rose from 96 percent to 99.7 percent.
The number of students in secondary education increased from 3 million to 5.5 million and the enrollment rate rose from 80 to 108.3 percent.
The number of formal students in higher education increased from 1.2 million to 3.2 million and the gross formal enrollment rate in higher education rose from 19 percent to 50 percent.
When students attending open education in higher education are included, the gross total enrollment rate increased from 29 percent to 103 percent.
We established Social Sciences High Schools for the first time in our country.
As of 2018, 93 Social Sciences High Schools serve our students across the country.
We established Sports High Schools to raise individuals who are intertwined with sports and arts, and to ensure that our students receive education according to their talents and interests.
In the 2017-2018 academic year, 70 Sports and 81 Fine Arts High Schools are serving our students.
We increased the number of schools opened by our Ministry of National Education for the children of our citizens and compatriots living abroad from 23 to 63 between 2002 and 2017.
We established the Turkish Maarif Foundation in order to act faster in this regard.
The Turkish Maarif Foundation has opened 113 schools in 22 countries.
Of these schools, 80 were taken over from FETÖ/PDY-affiliated institutions and 33 were newly opened.
During our ruling period, we have overcome very important deficiencies in educational infrastructure and physical structures.
In 15 years, we built a total of 284 thousand classrooms and increased the number of classrooms to 682 thousand.
While the number of students per classroom was 36 in the 2002-2003 academic year, we reduced this number to 25 in the 2017-2018 academic year.
We increased the number of laboratories in our schools from 18,853 in 2002 to 39,776 in 2017.
We distributed 1.4 million tablet computers to our teachers and students to expand the accessibility of technology.
We brought internet to all our schools, we did not leave any student without internet access in all schools open for education in villages and cities.
We equipped the internet access infrastructure of 14,993 schools without internet access with ADSL and satellite technologies.
In 15 years, we built 6,144 new sports halls in our schools and increased the number of school sports halls to 8,935.
In 15 years, we built 1,537 new hostels and increased the number of hostels to 3,016.
We significantly increased Yurt-Kur's investments in new dormitories and increased the bed capacity by 3.4 times compared to 2002, from 183,000 to 629,000.
While 662 thousand students were transported in the 2002-2003 academic year in order for primary education students to benefit equally from the right to education, we ensured that 1 million 336 thousand students, including secondary education and special education students, benefited from the transported education system in the 2017-2018 academic year.
For the first time under our government, we started to provide free textbooks to students.
In 15 years, we distributed a total of 2.7 billion books to students and paid 4.6 billion TL for these books.
Every year on the first day of school, we made sure that students had their textbooks ready at their desks.
From 2003 to 2018, we paid 6.2 billion TL to the mothers of children in primary and secondary education within the scope of Conditional Education Assistance (CCTE), which we launched to encourage participation in education.
We have changed the perception that private schools are unattainable.
With the practice we launched in 2014, we offered private school support to 340 thousand students in amounts ranging from 2,860 TL to 4,280 TL per year depending on the level.
We introduced a fee exemption for transactions related to contracts, letters of undertaking, surety bonds and similar papers to which our students are a party due to their education.
We introduced a passport fee exemption for students under the age of 25.
While the education scholarship we gave to needy primary and secondary school students was 13 TL per student in 2002, we increased it to 216 TL in 2018.
While the number of students receiving scholarships in primary and secondary education was approximately 101 thousand in 2002, it reached approximately 261 thousand in 2018.
We attach great importance to the education of children with disabilities.
Since the 2006-2007 academic year, textbooks for visually impaired students have been printed in Braille and distributed to students free of charge.
We distribute educational materials for mentally disabled and hearing impaired students free of charge.
We have been providing free transportation for students in need of special education in order to ensure their access to schools since the 2004-2005 academic year.
We provided education services at home and in hospitals for students who could not attend schools due to disabilities and who could not be transported.
With the new universities we established, we made the dream of all our young people to become university students a reality.
While there were 76 universities in 2002, we increased the number of universities to 207 in 2018.
In the same period, we increased the number of academic staff at universities by more than 100 percent, from 74 thousand to approximately 159 thousand.
In line with the expansion in higher education, we have also realized significant increases in the public resources allocated to universities.
In 2002, the total allocation to universities was 2.5 billion TL, while in 2018 it reached 28 billion TL.
We abolished university fees.
While the education scholarship we provided to students in our universities was 45 TL per student in 2002, we increased it to 470 TL in 2018.
While approximately 452 thousand students were given loans in 2003, we provide scholarships and loans to 1.6 million students in 2018.
We made it easier for people with disabilities to receive education in higher education entrance and education processes.
We have increased the international visibility of our country's higher education day by day and the number of foreign students in our country has exceeded 125 thousand for the first time in our higher education history.
Thus, our country has embarked on the path of becoming an important center of attraction in the field of higher education.
In order to encourage academics to improve their performance, we introduced the Academic Incentive System and provided financial support to our productive academics.
We provided the opportunity to employ post-doctoral researchers in our universities.
In order to commercialize the knowledge and technology produced at universities, we paved the way for universities to establish technology transfer offices with the status of capital companies.
We also encouraged the establishment of vocational schools in organized industrial zones.
We ensured that science and engineering students receive part of their education in industry.
Likewise, we started to send 400 academics who have completed their PhD abroad every year to improve their foreign language skills.
We also conducted a field-specific foreign language exam for academics for the first time.
In parallel with the developments in the world, we have identified 10 main and 5 candidate research universities and launched support programs for them.
We initiated the process of mission differentiation and specialization to produce different values in our universities.
In addition, in order to contribute to regional development, for the first time, Turkey's strategically prioritized science areas were identified and special research assistant positions were allocated to these areas.
In these fields that our country needs, we have also paid special attention to increasing human resources with doctorate degrees and started to provide 2 thousand doctoral student scholarships in 100 fields every year.
We launched unique industrial doctorate programs to improve university-industry relations and cooperation.
We have started to offer YÖK Undergraduate Scholarships to university students who are successful in our country's priority fields such as basic sciences, agriculture, aquaculture and forestry.
We have created a national class of outstanding achievers in basic sciences.
b. What We Will Do
In the new period, the content and quality of education will be our main priority.
Our main goal in education and training is to develop students who have developed the ability and competence of thinking, understanding, recognizing, problem solving, analysis and synthesis, and are equipped with the basic knowledge and skills required by the information society;
the responsibility for rights and justice,
internalized national culture and values;
internalized the universal values of humanity and democracy; open to communication and sharing;
to provide an opportunity and environment for the upbringing of individuals with developed aesthetic and artistic skills.
In achieving these goals, quality will be one of the areas we prioritize.
We will launch the Quality Mobilization in Education.
We will establish a quality assurance system in education, set high standards for all levels of education and all types of schools, and create an "education quality index" covering all schools across the country.
We will minimize the quality gap between schools.
We will improve the institutional organization of the Ministry of National Education so that it will be responsible for policy-making, coordination and supervision of the education system at the national level and increase participation.
We will reduce the achievement gaps between school types and regions, and we will bring equality of opportunity in education to life in all its dimensions.
We will ensure that the necessary guidance and psychological counseling services are provided effectively in terms of guiding students according to their interests and skills, ensuring effective learning, developing their skills and preparing them for the future.
We will further improve the qualifications of our teachers.
"We will enact a Law on Teaching Profession.
In cooperation with teacher training universities, we will accelerate efforts to improve teacher competencies and qualifications.
Under the coordination of Teacher Academies, we will provide our teachers with the qualified in-service training they need in cooperation with relevant organizations, especially universities.
We will launch the practice of "Professional School Management".
We will restructure the faculties of education and renew their curricula.
We will determine the student quotas of faculties of education and other higher education institutions that train teacher candidates and formation programs by taking into account the need for teachers and their projections.
Our curriculum will be updated to reflect the requirements of the age.
By reviewing the curriculum at regular intervals, we will monitor its impact on the quality of education and measure its contribution to achieving our ultimate goal of "human quality that transforms knowledge into added value".
We will continue our efforts to make the curriculum at all levels of education content that prepares students for life, teaches them to learn, reveals their talents, gives them basic skills, reinforces self-confidence and conveys universal values, rather than overloading them with information.
Preschool education is the first point of intervention in ensuring equal opportunities and eliminating disadvantages.
We will therefore ensure that every child receives at least one year of pre-school education before starting primary school.
We will ensure that students gain entrepreneurship and financial literacy awareness at an early age and that these skills are integrated into other courses.
We will further develop educational e-content by aligning the curriculum with ICT-supported teaching.
We will continue to mobilize our opportunities for all our students to use Turkish in a qualified and correct way.
We will enable game-based learning.
We will develop mobile learning systems and ensure more effective use of social media as a learning tool.
We will take measures to maximize the competencies of our children in the areas of mathematics and science and technology competence, learning to learn, initiative and entrepreneurship, social and public competencies, cultural awareness and expression.
We will prioritize foreign language education at a level that enables our students to communicate both orally and in writing.
To this end, we will review the teaching system and curriculum and make language learning much more effective.
We will use distance education methods as an effective tool for disadvantaged groups and out-of-school children to access quality education.
Our investments in education will continue with a focus on quality.
Our school buildings will be constructed in accordance with the 4E criteria (economic, aesthetic, safe, accessible), reflecting our historical and cultural heritage;
ensure that they have adequate play, sports and cultural areas.
Educational environments, teaching materials and educational practices will be organized with an understanding that takes into account individual differences and puts the student at the center.
We will take measures and implement compensatory programs for students whose learning and development levels are behind their peers.
We will continue to equip our schools with "Z-Libraries" to promote reading culture.
We incorporated coding into our education system starting from primary school.
Within the scope of the Fatih project, we will continue to ensure that our students develop in this field by distributing tablet computers that can also be used for coding education.
We will end dual education in all our schools by the end of the 2019-2020 academic year and switch to full-day education in our schools.
Our education policies will take into account the individual qualities of students and prepare our children for the future in line with their talents.
We will measure basic skills in transition exams from basic education to secondary education and university entrance exams.
We will take our schools out of exam-centered competition areas and turn them into natural living spaces where our students can go to their neighborhoods, where their social, cultural, artistic, literary and academic aspects are discovered, developed and valued.
We will develop a culture of healthy living by giving our students the culture of healthy living at school.
In this way, we will protect them from health problems they may experience later in life.
We will increase the amount and diversity of sporting and artistic activities.
We will discover the interests and talents of each student at an early age and ensure that they focus on their personal development in accordance with their individual differences and participate in these activities in a healthier way.
We will open secondary schools within the secondary education institutions we have opened in areas that require competence such as sports and arts, and we will ensure that students receive qualified education in these branches.
We will expand the practice of thematic high schools with specialization areas that provide education and training in a specific sport, art or profession.
We will establish science and art centers that will provide special education to children with high intelligence through talent screening.
We have ensured that 62 percent of Syrian children of school age currently in our country receive education.
We will ensure that all students are enrolled in school this term.
We will closely monitor learning processes, create an early warning system for children who fall behind socially and academically, and develop solutions.
We will allocate special support environments and vehicles for children who are academically and socially weak.
By increasing the number of support and training courses, we will enable our students to complete their deficiencies within the school without the need for any resources or institutions.
We will prioritize policies that improve the quality of education provided to students attending vocational and technical high schools, close the gap in basic competencies between students in these schools and students in other high schools, and plan the employment processes of their graduates.
We will encourage the employment of vocational and technical high school graduates.
We will expand the practice of establishing vocational high schools in organized industrial zones.
We will improve the vocational and technical education school management model and ensure the participation of local administrations and sector representatives.
In vocational and technical education, schools where high school and higher education programs are implemented together will be implemented.
We will plan flexibly to respond to rapid changes in the labor market and the economy.
We will develop programs with high employability rates to meet skill needs in new fields.
We will strengthen the cooperation between schools and the business world by expanding applied trainings.
It will strengthen the role of the private sector, especially in vocational training, and give more responsibility to chambers and stock exchanges.
We will increase the share of the private sector in education by encouraging it within the framework of the principle of equal opportunity.
We will continue to strengthen and implement our policies that do not deprive our children in need of special education and students with disabilities of any educational opportunities that their peers receive.
In this context, we will not only diversify and expand the curriculum, but also increase the availability and accessibility of textbooks and supplementary educational materials.
Necessary spatial arrangements to ensure access to schools and institutions for persons with disabilities will be completed to a significant extent.
Necessary measures will be taken for all students who may have problems in accessing education and transportation services will continue to be provided.
We will continue to implement our policies that enable the children entrusted to us by our martyrs and veterans to benefit from education services with positive discrimination.
We will increase the amount of scholarships given to primary and secondary education students and the number of beneficiaries.
We will completely solve the dormitory problem of our students from primary school to university.
We will continue to open vocational courses that our adult citizens outside of school age need.
The scientific level of universities has a determining role in a country's level of civilization and development.
One of our main priorities is to envision a university that is democratic, libertarian and in line with universal values.
Turkey will be a very important brand in higher education.
In addition to the existing universities, we will develop a mechanism for new universities and faculties to be established in the future based on objective rules such as the number of students and academic staff and the occupancy rates of established faculties.
We will strengthen the capacities of universities by taking into account their development, competence levels and regional needs, and continue to support their specialization.
We will prepare a new "Higher Education Framework Law" with a reformist approach that reorganizes university administration on the basis of autonomy and accountability.
We will categorize universities based on their faculty training and research infrastructure.
Categories will be differentiated in terms of their level of autonomy, and we will ensure that these levels serve as the basis for the specialization of universities and the transfer of public resources.
We will allow the establishment of private universities and the operation of foreign universities in Turkey and Turkish universities abroad.
We will increase the international competitiveness of universities by making them more attractive to international students and faculty members.
We will support our higher education institutions to cooperate with developed universities in different parts of the world.
In order to meet the teaching staff needs of our universities, the number of postgraduate education scholarships provided by the Ministry of National Education and TÜBİTAK will be increased, and new theme-oriented postgraduate scholarship programs will be established within YÖK.
We will increase the alignment between labor demand and labor supply.
We will make it easier for graduates of vocational schools of higher education to find jobs in the public and private sectors by eliminating the discrepancies between the program names and occupational descriptions in their diplomas.
We will establish a Religious Academy to provide pre-professional and in-service training for mufti, preacher, imam hatip, Qur'an course instructor and muezzin kayyim, who provide religious services, in order to ensure better training.
We will open educational institutions in cooperation with the Turkish Maarif Foundation in countries where our citizens live in large numbers, and we will continue the education of our children abroad without interruption.
Culture and Art
Our nation, the inheritor of a deep-rooted civilization, has a vast accumulation of culture and art.
Our goal in the field of culture and arts is to preserve, reproduce and transfer to future generations the values formed in the perspective of a deep historical consciousness,
see cultural differences as richness,
To create a society with a strong sense of aesthetics, where everyone contributes to and has access to cultural and artistic activities.
The main purpose of our cultural policies is to keep our culture alive in the century we live in and beyond, to update its discourse and practices and to transfer them to the next generations and ages.
The basis of our cultural policies is to reinterpret all the imaginations and visions of all civilizations that have lived and existed in these lands, which are good and beautiful, in the modern world, to reproduce them with an approach that appeals to the modern world, and to transfer them to our age without severing their ties with our past and what we have.
Our understanding of culture and arts is based on an approach that takes into account our social values, highlights aesthetic sensitivities and contributes to universal civilization.
In the period ahead, the use of our civilizational and cultural heritage, which carries the accumulation of our society to the future, as a soft power in all our bilateral relations and multilateral diplomacy, especially in our geography of heart, is among the main priorities.
a. What We Did
We spread culture and art activities to the grassroots.
The 3.7-fold increase in national income and the sharing of prosperity by wider social segments during our AK Party governments have created a vitality based on a wider social base in the field of culture and arts in the last 16 years.
With the financial support we have provided during the period of our governments, it has become an important priority to transform our cities into cultural and art-producing centers, and thus to keep culture alive and produced in cities by culture and art professionals.
From literature to cinema, from theater to museology, from restoration of cultural artifacts to archaeological excavations, we have made significant progress in almost every field of culture and arts.
In this period, we continued to promote and support our cultural heritage all over the world as the heritage of all humanity through cultural initiatives and activities planned on an international scale.
We have made great efforts to promote Turkish to the world.
In the last 16 years, we have quadrupled the number of books with international standard number (ISBN) to 60 thousand.
We opened the Prof. Dr. Fuat Sezgin and Dr. Ursula Sezgin library.
We transferred the classical works of Turkish literature to electronic media and made them available to readers.
We have extended the opening hours of provincial public libraries until 22.00 in order to enable our citizens to benefit more from libraries.
To support the internationalization of our literature, we provided support for the publication of 2,505 works in 60 different languages in 68 countries.
We have effectively initiated the teaching of the Turkish language abroad.
We established 54 Yunus Emre Turkish Cultural Centers in 44 countries with the aim of increasing Turkey's effectiveness in the cultural field by creating a global network of cultural centers.
We supported our visual arts.
In 16 years, the number of domestic movie audiences increased 20-fold from 2 million in 2002 to 40.3 million, and the total number of audiences increased from 23.5 million to 71 million.
The rate of domestic movie viewership, which was 8 percent in 2002, reached 56 percent in 2017 and Turkey ranked first in Europe with this rate.
Turkish TV series and movies have become our cultural ambassadors.
Today, Turkish TV series are watched in more than 140 countries and we rank second in the world after the USA in TV series exports.
Within the scope of the No Child Left Without a Movie Theater Project, we introduced 1 million children to the cinema for the first time.
While the support given to theaters was 850 thousand TL until 2003, the total amount of support reached 48.3 million TL between 2003 and 2018.
We revived traditional arts. Our elements
"Whistling Language" and "Spring Celebration: Hıdrellez", prepared as a multinational dossier with Macedonia, were registered in UNESCO Lists.
Thus, 16 elements have been registered on behalf of Turkey in the UNESCO Lists.
We protected our cultural heritage with all our efforts.
In 2002, we increased the number of our assets and sites on the World Heritage List from 9 to 17.
In the Tentative List of World Cultural Heritage, we increased the number of our assets and sites from 18 to 71.
In the last 16 years, we have ensured the return of 4,317 artifacts from foreign countries to our country. Since
2002, we have increased the allocations for archaeological excavations more than 30 times.
Between 2005 and 2017, we provided 108.3 million TL support for a total of 5,248 immovable cultural assets.
Within the scope of projects, maintenance-repair, restoration and landscaping works for the protection of immovable cultural assets, we have carried out a total of 1,816 works and spent 1.2 billion TL in the last 16 years.
We restored the Istanbul archeology museum.
In 2002, there were 42 cultural centers built by the Ministry in Turkey, while this number reached 112 as of 2017.
While only 46 cultural assets were restored or repaired between 1992-2002, 5,060 foundation cultural assets were restored or repaired between 2003-2018, an increase of 110 times.
A total of TL 3 billion was spent from the budget of the General Directorate of Foundations.
While only 51 foundation properties were utilized through various models before 2003, a total of 1,021 foundation properties have been utilized since 2003.
We established Bezm-i Âlem Foundation University in Istanbul to realize the objectives of foundations whose endowments stipulate education.
In this context, Bezm-i Âlem Vakıf Gureba Hospital continues to exist and provide health services to our citizens in need.
We established Fatih Sultan Mehmet Foundation University in Istanbul to train the restorers and calligraphy masters of the future.
Thus, exactly 200 years later, we have realized the purpose of foundations in higher education.
We provided 102 million TL financial support for the construction of 152 cultural houses and cultural centers built by public institutions and organizations.
With the Müzekart application, we paved the way for our people to meet culture and history.
In the name of modern museum practices, we started the museum card application and introduced 10 million citizens to the museum card.
This is a first in Europe in terms of its scope.
We have renovated many of our museums according to contemporary museum standards. We increased the number of private museums from 93 in 2002 to 240 in 2017.
While the number of visitors to museums and archaeological sites was 7.4 million in 2002, this figure reached 30 million.
We ensured more active participation of our youth in cultural and artistic activities.
In this context, we have implemented the GENÇDES support program to enable young people to realize their projects in various fields of art.
Thus, we provided a total of 54 million TL support to the activities, events and artwork production projects of young people.
b. What We Will Do
Our support for culture and art activities will continue to increase.
In the coming period, we will increase the resources allocated to culture and arts.
We will reconsider the administrative organization of the field of culture and arts.
We will increase the mechanisms through which civil society can actively participate in culture and arts activities by ensuring that culture is fed by more civil society.
With the legislative amendment we are preparing to establish a more effective copyright system, we will catch up with international standards and contribute to the development of the cultural industry.
We will review the Law on Intellectual and Artistic Works.
In this framework, we will make regulations on combating digital rights violations, licensing of users and collective rights management system, increasing the opportunities for society to benefit from works, and the copyrights of our artists in different professional groups.
By increasing the quantity and quality of our cultural activities, we will ensure that the opportunities offered by the civilizational accumulation of our country are promoted at the international level and actively contribute to universal culture, thought and art production.
We will give importance to the promotion of our culture and art people and encourage them.
We will continue to develop, maintain and expand our foundation tradition, which is the institutional carrier of our civilization values.
We aim to increase the number of properties and sites on the World Heritage List from 9 in 2002 to 23, and the number of properties and sites on the Tentative List of World Cultural Heritage from 18 in 2002 to 90.
As a member of the UNESCO Intergovernmental Committee, our country has registered 14 elements in the Representative List of the Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity since 2008 and entered among the top 10 countries.
By 2023, we aim to increase the number of elements registered in the list to 23.
We will continue our efforts to introduce the Turkish language to the whole world.
We aim to make Turkish one of the official languages of the United Nations.
In addition to the Turkish language education and training carried out by Yunus Emre Institute in its centers abroad, we will actively continue its cultural and artistic activities and increase its support for scientific research.
Serving in 44 countries, we aim to increase the number of Turkish Cultural Centers of Yunus Emre Institutes from 54 to 100 by 2023.
We will develop a national culture industry.
We will support the promotion of important personalities and events of our history and fairy tale heroes by turning them into documentaries, series and cartoons.
We will encourage the production of computer games and animations with content that our children can enjoy and that will help them grow up as responsible individuals.
We will improve the mobility of our local governments in the field of culture and arts.
We will provide more support to theaters and cinemas established by municipalities, NGOs and private entrepreneurs in cities where they are needed.
We will transform our cinema sector into a cultural industry with an international dimension and ensure that our country becomes one of the major film production centers.
In this context, we will review our cinema law to ensure the development and strengthening of our cinema sector.
We are increasing support for visual arts.
We will create an incentive mechanism that works effectively for the depiction of national, religious, moral and folkloric values, which are the basic elements of our culture, in cinema.
On the one hand, we will take measures to ensure that the Turkish film industry becomes one of the leading industries in the world, and on the other hand, we will support foreign films to be produced in Turkey.
We are introducing an innovative and inclusive approach to librarianship.
By 2023, we will provide services in at least 30 provinces with libraries equipped with a "living library" approach with cafeterias, pocket cinemas, children's playgrounds, individual and group study areas, internet access, and audio-visual presentation areas.
We aim to reach 40 million library users, 20 million lending and 5 million members.
In particular, we will increase the number and quality of public and school libraries.
We will restructure the National Library administratively and functionally and strengthen its role as a research and reference library.
We will complete the renovation and restoration of the Rami Barracks and provide Istanbul with Turkey's largest library with seven million books.
In cooperation with local governments, we will establish at least one library in settlements with a population over 5 thousand.
We will increase the number of mobile libraries from 54 to one in 81 provinces, leaving no province without a mobile library.
We will open at least one children's library in all provincial centers and reach 150 children's libraries by 2023.
There will be no province without a cultural center.
We will build new multifunctional cultural centers that reflect the needs of the local community more and respond to the requirements of the age.
We will ensure that amateur and professional artists receive continuous training and education in drama, theater, painting and music workshops in cultural centers.
In these centers, we will organize courses to improve literacy and literary taste, and introduce our children and youth to the classics of Turkish and world literature.
In 2023, we aim to teach Turkish to 100 thousand people through our cultural centers.
We are rebuilding the Atatürk Cultural Center with an architecture suitable for the era and the city.
In this way, we are providing Istanbul with a cultural center that is both compatible with the historical texture of the city, modern, and much more useful and functional.
We will provide space support to book centers, bookstore bazaars and bookshops.
We will encourage the creation of cultural activity areas in commercial activity areas such as shopping malls in cities.
We will ensure that a curriculum that develops a sense of art and aesthetics is created and implemented in our schools.
At all levels of education, we will create new programs that will enable our children to read in accordance with their mental and emotional development and to get to know their own literature and world classics.
We will attach importance to archaeology education and develop departments of Seljuk, Ottoman and Central Asian archaeology, including the ancient civilizations of Anatolia.
We will organize archaeology and art history departments as departments that feed and support each other.
We will utilize all the possibilities of technology in the protection and promotion of our cultural assets.
We will put all our manuscripts into service with their rich catalogs so that they can be accessed from anywhere in the world, and we will not publish 600 works within the scope of the "One Thousand and One (1001) Works Project".
We will ensure that architectural drawings and projects of all our cultural assets such as mosques, libraries, madrasas, palaces, historical public buildings are created and that these designs and projects are archived so that they can be rebuilt in case of damage.
By establishing research and application laboratories for the restoration and conservation of our cultural heritage, we will continue to develop our infrastructure at international standards in this field, and increase the quality through domestic and international research.
In addition to the restoration or preservation of their physical assets, we will show utmost sensitivity to ensure that the spaces are used in accordance with their architectural identity and original function.
In order to protect our cultural heritage, we aim to restore 2023 immovable cultural assets and bring them into daily life by 2023.
We will complete all restoration works at Yıldız Palace until 2023.
On the one hand, we will restore the Topkapı Palace Complex and on the other hand, we will open the works that have not seen the light of day to visitors by creating new exhibition areas.
By 2023, we aim to bring many artifacts together with visitors.
We aim to make a breakthrough in tourism with investments in museology.
In order to revitalize our human values and cultural memory through the relationship between city and civilization, new museums will be opened in 13 provinces that do not yet have museums, leaving no city without a museum.
In addition, we will renew the exhibition organization of our existing museums in accordance with today's modern museology understanding.
We will establish National Museum Complexes in our big cities.
We will encourage private museums.
In selected cities, we will establish thematic museums such as the National Museum of Natural History, the National Museum of Contemporary Arts, the Museum of Fossils, the Museum of Agriculture, the Botanical Museum, the Museum of Islamic Arts, the Museum of National Costumes, the National Museum of Architecture, the Museum of Photographic Art, the National Museum of Ceramics and Tiles, etc.
We will restore Kuleli Military High School, one of the most important architectural and cultural monuments of Istanbul, and turn it into a national museum that will be the pride of Turkey.
In our country, which has been home to many civilizations from past to present, we are bringing 23 more of our archaeological sites to tourism by making visitor welcome centers and environmental arrangements.
We will complete the construction of the Presidential Symphony Orchestra and Choir Practice Buildings.
We will encourage the business world to allocate more budget to culture and arts, especially private museums and cultural centers.
In this way, we aim to accelerate the development of local art directors, curators and editors.
We will ensure the inventory of our traditional and contemporary artists, the collection of their works within a program and the creation of museums where these works are exhibited.
We will create digital archives.
We will complete the Digital Cultural Archive and open it to national and international access to ensure that our cultural heritage is properly transmitted to future generations.
In order to ensure the transfer of our civilization accumulation to future generations, we will create Digital Photo Archives to monitor the changes of our cities, cultural and artistic assets and segments of society over time.
We will ensure that all documents in our National Archive are organized and made available to researchers electronically.
We will accelerate our efforts to transmit our cultural resources to future generations with the means of modern technology through facsimiles, simplification and digitization.
We will create and develop compilation archives of scripts and images of cultural works such as theater, film, etc.
Our activities for the promotion and protection of foundation cultural assets will continue.
We will prepare the projects of all 9 thousand foundation cultural assets in Turkey, prioritize them and ensure the restoration and repair of the needed assets.
Abroad (in the Ottoman geography), we will carry out the preparation of projects, restoration or repair of at least 100 cultural assets belonging to the foundation civilization to the extent possible.
We will complete the inventory of foundation cultural assets in 10 countries in the Ottoman geography (Egypt, Syria, Iraq, Lebanon, Montenegro, Albania, Serbia and Georgia).
We will establish a pathology unit for the conservation of Seljuk and Ottoman documents in the foundation records archive.
We will continue to bring the richness of our culture to a much wider audience through events with wide participation at the international level.
We will ensure that ornamentation and handicrafts produced in our country such as marbling, calligraphy, illumination, miniature, wood carving, tile, carpet, copper, filigree are transformed into commercial products with different presentations.
Healthy Generations
Our main objective is to develop and maintain a health system in which a healthy lifestyle is adopted with the approach of "people first" and "health for all" within the framework of universal values and where all our citizens have easy and fair access to the right to health.
As the Justice and Development Party, we prioritize the upbringing of physically and mentally healthy generations, free from all kinds of addictions, and the provision of quality and affordable health services to all our citizens so that they can live and age actively.
In this context, we will support our health system with sustainable policies and make it the health base of Europe and West Asia and a center of attraction for health tourism.
We will continuously improve our human resources and physical infrastructure in line with our goal of increasing the quality of service in the field of health, ensuring the sustainability of the service standard and bringing the service to the doorstep of our citizens, especially disadvantaged citizens.
We will further develop preventive and preventive health services and ensure that they provide significant support to primary health care.
a. What We Did
Thanks to the decisive steps we have taken during our governments, Turkey has come of age in health.
With an understanding that takes care of the poor, we made health services no longer an ordeal for our people.
By implementing the Health Transformation Program, we achieved significant improvements in basic health indicators, health service delivery infrastructure and human resources.
While the total amount of expenditure in the field of health was 18.7 billion TL in 2002, we increased this figure to 116.7 billion TL in 2016.
In the same period, we increased the share of health expenditures in public expenditures from 12 percent to 16.1 percent.
Turkey has long forgotten about patients held hostage in hospitals, unavailable medicines and ramshackle hospitals.
We put an end to queues in front of hospitals and pharmacies and ensured patient access to doctors, medical technology and medicines.
We transferred the hospitals of other public institutions, especially SSK hospitals, to the Ministry of Health and gathered them under one roof.
We integrated private hospitals into the system.
We freed our citizens from being condemned to high fees in private practices and made them able to receive services in private health facilities.
With the Full Day Law, we have greatly reduced the obligation of our citizens to go to private practices.
We launched the Central Hospital Appointment System (MHRS) and made it widespread throughout the country.
Our citizens make appointments by calling the 182 Call Center, via the internet or mobile application.
The number of appointments made in this way has reached 400,000 on average per day.
We save paper and time by performing transactions electronically in hospitals.
With e-Prescription, we prevent fraud and abuse in the form of issuing medicines, prescriptions and reports without the knowledge of physicians.
With the e-Nabız system, we provide our citizens with the world's largest, most comprehensive and most secure health information infrastructure service.
We introduced the "General Health Insurance" system.
In this way, all citizens benefit from health services at the same standard, the premiums of the poor are covered by the state and all individuals under the age of 18 are covered by health insurance.
Health ration cards are a thing of the past.
Our citizens can receive treatment at the hospital of their choice.
We started to provide emergency, cancer and intensive care treatments free of charge to all citizens in public and private hospitals.
We ensured that private hospitals do not charge additional fees for burns, cancer, newborns, organ transplants, congenital abnormalities, dialysis, cardiovascular surgery and emergency procedures.
We expanded the rights of Green Card holders for low-income groups.
We started to cover the costs of "outpatient" health care services and medicines for Green Card holders.
We have eliminated impoverishing health costs by covering the cost of treatment in areas where treatment is very expensive, especially cancer.
We made it possible for our patients to receive treatment abroad and expanded the scope of overseas health benefits.
With the Health Implementation Communiqué, we started the practice of hospitals providing medicines and medical supplies free of charge for inpatients.
We have made great progress in maternal and child health and vaccination services.
Thanks to the steps we have taken, in the last decade, maternal and infant mortality rates have declined in a way that has set an example for the rest of the world.
We carried out activities to encourage normal births.
We launched the "Mother Friendly Hospital Program".
In this context, we reduced maternal and infant mortality by ensuring that every pregnant woman gives birth in a hospital and is followed up after delivery.
We provided free iron support to pregnant women and free vitamin D and iron support to infants.
We launched the "Baby Friendly Hospital" practice to encourage exclusive breastfeeding of babies for the first 6 months.
Since 2008, with the "Guest Mother Project", we have hosted expectant mothers in places with transportation problems before delivery and ensured healthy births.
We provide this service to an average of 3 thousand expectant mothers per year.
We launched the "Baby Friendly Hospital" practice to encourage exclusive breastfeeding of babies for the first 6 months.
We expanded the scope of newborn screening in order to protect newborn babies from diseases that can be easily prevented when detected, but can cause irreparable consequences and lead to mental and physical developmental retardation when missed.
We increased prenatal care services from 70 percent in 2002 to 99 percent in 2016, and the rate of births in a health institution from 75 percent to 98 percent in 2016.
As a result of all these developments, (i) infant mortality rate (per thousand live births), which was 31.5 in 2002, was reduced to 7.3 in 2016, (ii) under-five mortality rate (per thousand live births), which was 40, was reduced to 9.4, and (iii) maternal mortality rate (per hundred thousand live births), which was 64, was reduced to 14.7.
Life expectancy at birth increased from 72.5 to 78 years.
As Turkey, we have realized in a very short time what OECD countries have realized in 25-30 years.
We increased accessibility to health services and quality in service delivery.
We launched the family medicine practice and made it widespread across the country.
Launched in 2005 and implemented in 81 provinces in 2010, we strengthened primary health care services with family medicine.
We increased the number of family physicians to 23,992 in 2018.
In 2018, we reduced the population per family physician unit to 3,295 people in order for people to receive treatment quickly and have easier access to physicians.
At Healthy Life Centers, we offer services such as nutrition, active life, psychological and social counseling, physiotherapy, oral and dental health, and injections.
As of April 2018, the number of Healthy Life Centers reached 94.
We increased the budget for preventive health services by nearly 9 times, and ensured that all citizens have free access to primary health care facilities.
With community health centers, epidemics are no longer a threat.
With the vaccination services we offer completely free of charge, we have increased vaccination rates from 77 percent to 98 percent.
In this way, we have achieved a significant reduction in the number of vaccine-preventable diseases in our country.
In the childhood vaccination calendar, we increased the number of vaccinations against 7 diseases from 7 in 2002 to 13.
We provide vaccination and counseling services to our citizens traveling abroad within the scope of travel health, as well as 24/7 health services to our citizens performing Hajj worship at the entrance and exit of the country.
We have taken important steps towards localization in health.
We established a Vaccine Science Board for domestic vaccine production.
We have determined our country's vaccine R&D and production roadmap.
We continue to work on vaccine production.
In this context, we have reached the stage of producing the original Crimean-Congo Hemorrhagic Fever (CCHF) vaccine in Turkey for the first time in the world.
As part of the work of the Health Industries Steering Committee, we continue to carry out localization efforts in the pharmaceutical and medical device sector.
We promoted the rational use of medicines.
In this context, we continued to work on the 2014-2017 National Action Plan on Rational Use of Medicines without slowing down.
In this way, we provided feedback to our physicians on issues related to prescriptions.
Within the framework of the rational antibiotic use program, we aimed to reduce the rate of antibiotic use.
We reduced the VAT rate on medicines and changed the drug pricing system.
We have significantly reduced the burden of pharmaceutical expenditures on both the public and citizens by providing a significant reduction in drug prices.
These regulations played an important role in expanding access to medicines.
With the introduction of the Pharmaceutical Tracking System, we have created a structure that uses QR codes and enables tracking.
We introduced home health care services and made it widespread throughout the country.
Launched in 2010, home health care services ensure that bedridden patients receive quality, effective, accessible and safe health care services at home.
As of April 2018, we have approximately 350,000 follow-up patients to whom we provide home healthcare services.
We provide oral and dental health services to patients in need of home health care services in 107 units with a total of 140 vehicles, including 106 teams and 34 fully equipped vehicles.
We have not slowed down in the fight against diseases.
We have implemented comprehensive programs to prevent health deterioration and premature deaths due to non-communicable diseases.
In this framework, we have planned and implemented national programs for specific diseases, including cardiovascular diseases, cancer, diabetes, chronic respiratory diseases, stroke and kidney failure.
We have accelerated programs to fight cancer.
In this context, we established a national reading center where screening mammograms can be reported at EU standards, and National HPV and Cytology Laboratories for cervical cancer screening.
We carried out screenings with 25 Mobile and 10 Pink Princess Screening Trucks in 201 settlements, at least one in each province, from the Cancer Early Diagnosis, Screening and Training Centers (KETEM), which provide free services to our citizens.
5 million citizens benefit from free cancer screening programs annually.
We go to the feet of our people with healthy living vehicles.
We started to serve with 150 healthy living vehicles across the country.
In city squares where our citizens are densely populated, we carry out activities to inform and increase health literacy on issues such as the promotion of active lifestyles, healthy nutrition, combating addiction, organ donation.
We set an example to the world by never compromising in the fight against addiction.
In 2016, the World Health Organization showed our country as an example to the world in the fight against addiction.
In this context, we started a relentless fight against addiction by establishing community-based mental health centers.
We established and activated the "High Council for Combating Drugs", which will function at the ministerial level.
We established "Provincial Coordination Committees for Combating Drugs" to monitor anti-drug activities in provinces.
As of the end of 2017, we provide treatment and rehabilitation services for drugs and other addictive products in 37 AMATEM and 7 ÇEMATEM centers with 1,035 beds.
We launched the 'Alo 191 Anti-Drug Counseling and Support Line' where citizens can reach and receive counseling 24/7.
Thanks to the determination and leadership of our government, we became the first in the world in the fight against tobacco and our country was recognized as a model country.
We have been awarded four times by the World Health Organization in the fight against smoking.
As part of the fight against tobacco, we offer free medication at smoking cessation outpatient clinics.
We are ahead of world standards in emergency health services.
For patients requiring emergency or intensive care, we do not charge our citizens at any health institution, including private hospitals.
In emergency health services, the world's most ideal service delivery has been achieved with land ambulances, snow ambulances, ambulance helicopters and airplanes, and sea boat ambulances.
Turkey met ambulance airplanes and ambulance helicopters under AK Party rule.
As of today, the number of air ambulances has reached 20 and the number of sea ambulances is 6.
We started to provide "112 Emergency Health" services not only in cities but also in villages, increasing the number of stations and equipping our ambulances with the latest technologies.
We added air and sea transportation to the system.
While the population per 112 Emergency Ambulance was 107,446 in 2002, it was 15,961 as of March 2018.
As of March 2018, the total number of Emergency Health Services Stations reached 2,639.
Established in 2005, the National Medical Rescue Team (UMKE) has become the largest national medical rescue team in Europe, serving with 9,443 personnel in 81 provinces and providing emergency response to disasters and extraordinary situations and health organization in disasters.
We have achieved tremendous success in health service delivery infrastructure and human resources.
We have realized City Hospitals projects with public-private cooperation in order to provide high standards of healthcare services to our citizens by building healthcare facilities with functional and modern architectural understanding.
So far, we have opened Yozgat, Mersin, Isparta, Adana and Kayseri city hospitals with a total of 5,613 beds.
We made a technological revolution in health by equipping our hospitals with medical devices.
By prioritizing regions lacking buildings, equipment and health personnel, we have largely eliminated imbalances in this regard.
In this context, between 2003 and 2018, we put into service a total of 2,998 new health facilities, including 995 hospitals and annex buildings, 1,871 primary care buildings, and 132 Oral and Dental Health Centers (ADSM).
During our ruling period, we have increased the rate of qualified beds from 6 percent to 62 percent.
As a country aiming to be a role model in the health system, we have attached importance to the organization of health studies under the roof of a university.
In this direction, we started education and training in Haydarpaşa Complex at the University of Health Sciences, Gülhane in Ankara and Somali Complex abroad.
We created an electronic donation system to make organ and tissue transplant applications faster and easier.
Within the scope of our TÜRKÖK Project, we have reached 275 thousand volunteer donors.
The total number of transplants performed from TÜRKÖK donors in response to domestic and international demand for cellular products reached 1,097.
As of 2016, the total number of physicians reached 144,827, nurses 152,952 and midwives 52,546.
Thus, we increased the number of physicians per 100 thousand people from 138 in 2002 to 184 and the number of nurses and midwives from 171 to 272.
While the number of visits to physicians per capita was 3.2 in 2002, it increased to 8.6 in 2017 due to increased access to health services.
In 2002, 14 Oral and Dental Health Centers (ADSM) provided services with 3,211 dentists, while in 2017, 132 ADSMs provided services with 9,194 dentists.
As a result of all these developments, we have increased the satisfaction rate with health services from 39.5 percent in 2003 to 71.7 percent in 2017.
Turkey has become the country with the most trusted health system internationally.
According to a recent international survey, Turkey was the country with the least concern about health care with 3 percent.
b. What We Will Do
Turkey will be the leading country in the region and a role model in the world in the field of health.
In addition to improving the quality of service delivery in health, we aim to develop our capacity in medical technology, pharmaceutical industry and health tourism and become a country that produces locally.
As a model country in the world in health service delivery, we will continue to further improve our services.
In the new period, we will strengthen primary health care services and increase their effectiveness within the health system.
We will reduce the number of people per family doctor by half (2 thousand) in 2023.
We will further strengthen Family Health Centers.
In these centers, we will provide services such as mini check-ups, nutrition, physical activity, child and adolescent health, infection control, cancer screening and injections.
We will expand primary health care services with mobile health teams in rural areas.
We will physically renovate emergency services and increase the opportunity to benefit from health services by doubling the rate of patient examinations by appointment through the Central Appointment System by 2023.
We will prioritize these services according to the color coding system and reduce congestion.
Within the scope of emergency health services, we will provide patient reception staff and valet services, and establish patient information offices.
We will open out-of-hours polyclinics for non-emergency patients and make them available until 23:00.
We will be among the leading countries providing support in emergencies and disasters on a global and regional scale.
In this context, we will increase the rate of timely access to emergency cases to 85 percent by 2023.
We will lease 19 helicopter ambulances and add 1,200 new ground ambulances to the 112 fleet.
Our investments in physical infrastructure and human resources in health will continue.
We will open 64 new health facilities to serve a population density of around 7 million.
By 2023: We will increase the number of beds per 10,000 people from 28.5 to 31.2.
We will increase the rate of qualified beds in Ministry of Health hospitals to 100 percent.
We will increase the total number of beds in city hospitals from 4,000 to 40,000.
As of the second half of 2018, we will open Manisa, Elazığ, Ankara and Eskişehir City Hospitals.
We will increase the number of physicians per hundred thousand people from 184 to 230 and the number of nurses and midwives per hundred thousand people from 272 to 370.
We will increase the rate of centers performing more than 24 kidney transplants per year from 60 percent to 100 percent.
We will expand integrated remote health and care applications supported by information and communication technologies.
With the e-Nabız application, we will ensure that every patient's health history is viewed by their physician, and we will increase the number of citizens using the e-Nabız system from 7 million to 12 million.
Our fight against addiction will continue actively all over the country.
By 2023, we will provide addiction treatment services in all provinces.
We will start providing rehabilitation services for addiction and expand them to 30 provinces.
We will increase the number of AMATEMs from 28 to 32 and the number of ÇEMATEMs from 7 to 11.
We will launch a new era in the fight against drugs by putting the National Anti-Drug Action Plan (2018-2023) into effect.
We will open new Counseling Centers in the fight against drugs and expand them across the country.
We will increase the number of smoking cessation outpatient clinics in our hospitals across Turkey from 415 to 450.  By 2023:
We will reduce the average number of cigarettes smoked per day by smokers from 17.5 to 13.
We will increase the rate of businesses that comply with the tobacco ban from 71.7 percent to 90 percent.
We will reduce the rate of people aged 15 and over who use tobacco and tobacco products every day from 26.5 percent to 20 percent.
We will implement integrated health service models.
We will expand screening programs for non-communicable diseases such as hypertension, diabetes, cardiovascular diseases and obesity.
We will expand screening for early detection, especially for some types of cancer.
We will map important risk factors for cancer such as asbestos and radon.
We will establish an active cancer registration system covering all provinces.
We will increase the rate of early diagnosis of diabetes and improve care services for people with diabetes.
We will ensure that oral and dental health is followed up with regular checks.
We will ensure the integration of traditional and complementary medicine into the health system in an evidence-based, reliable and effective manner.
We will increase the number of traditional and complementary medicine units in public health facilities.
We will continue to promote normal birth for healthier generations.
We have ambitious targets in maternal and child health.
By 2023: We will reduce maternal mortality rates from 14.7 to 9 per 100,000.
We will reduce the under-5 infant mortality rate per thousand live births (all weeks) from 9.4 to 8.
We will increase the number of Mother Friendly Hospitals from 27 to 85, ensuring that every pregnant woman gives birth in a healthy hospital and is followed up.
We will increase the number of hospitals with baby-friendly intensive care units from 22 to 95.
In our country, where vaccination rates have reached 97 percent, we will ensure a significant reduction in the number of vaccine-preventable diseases.
We will expand our program to support the psychosocial development of children aged 0-6 across the country.
We will increase the number of Child Monitoring Centers (CIM) established to minimize the secondary abuse of abused children from 31 to 44.
We will further strengthen our existing practices in the field of home health services.
To this end, we will establish a 24/7 contact line and further expand our services.
We will increase the capacity of transport ambulances for home health care services and double the frequency of monthly visits to patients receiving this service by 2023.
We will expand and implement active communication policies in health.
We will prevent information pollution in the media about diseases and health.
We will create digital media applications for this.
We will promote healthy lifestyles and improve health.
In this context, we aim to effectively combat tobacco use, alcohol and drug addiction and to improve healthy nutrition, active life, food safety and mental health.
We will increase the number of Community Mental Health Centers from 156 in 78 provinces to 245 in 81 provinces by 2023.
We will implement the Health Representative System on a voluntary basis.
By the end of 2018, we will ensure that all drinking water tanks are equipped with automatic chlorination devices, and we will implement the Carboy Tracking System for our people to access safe drinking water.
With new steps we will take in the field of preventive health services, we will pursue an active policy all over the country.
We will take measures against misleading and misleading promotional activities of food products that are harmful to health, especially for children.
We will regulate labels and packaging to inform consumers more accurately.
Within the scope of healthy nutrition, existing information on food packaging will be made visible and easy to understand.
We will triple the rate of Nutrition Friendly Schools among White Flag Schools by 2023.
We will implement a health-friendly business certification system to protect the health of our people; we will establish a cooperation platform with the participation of food producers and support them to produce healthier food.
We will carry out healthy nutrition programs for individuals in childhood and adolescence.
We will fight against obesity and reduce the obesity rate.
We will reduce the rate of people with insufficient physical activity from 71.9 percent to 50 percent by 2023.
In this context, we will implement the "Walking Cities Project" and increase physical activity areas such as bicycle paths, walking and jogging tracks that will facilitate exercise habits in our cities.
We will determine the principles of use of public sports facilities and make them available to citizens.
We will develop a sports-friendly school program and encourage the establishment of school sports clubs.
We will ensure that physical education and sports classes become more active.
We will increase the level of regulation of health products.
By 2023, we will reduce the daily antibiotic use per thousand people from 35.3 to 31.
Within the scope of the Turkey Genome Project, we will create a gene pool of the population in our country and develop personalized medicine practices.
We will establish the infrastructure of our country's National Genome Research Development Center (Aziz San-car Research Development Center).
Within the scope of the Turkey Cancer Gene Project, we will provide personalized treatment applications for cancer patients by genomic profiling of cancer patients.
We will increase the number of voluntary cell donors registered in the TÜRKÖK National Tissue Information Bank and enable bone marrow transplantation processes.
We will increase the number of new donors by conducting promotional activities to recruit volunteer stem cell donors.
Our localization projects in health will continue at full speed.
With the investments we will make in domestic vaccines, we will transform Turkey from a vaccine importing country to a vaccine exporting country.
Varicella vaccine, rabies vaccine, hepatitis B vaccine and 5-mixed vaccines (DaBT-Hib-IPA) will be produced in our country as our domestic vaccines.
We will strengthen the domestic pharmaceutical and medical device industry through Industry Cooperation Projects (IPP).
We will manufacture Digital Radiography, Computed Tomography (CT), Bedside Monitor (HBM), Magnetic Resonance (MRI) and Ultrasonography (USG) devices in Turkey within the scope of Industry Cooperation Practices to ensure innovation, localization and technology transfer.
As a result of all these efforts, we will increase the overall satisfaction rate of our people with health services from 71.7 percent to over 80 percent.
Youth
Since the day it was founded, the AK Party has been a visionary party that has been in favor of young thinking, change and transformation in Turkish political life.
In this respect, it is the party of the youth.
We trust our youth; we see our youth as the energy of today and the guarantee of tomorrow.
We show this not only in our government policies, but also in our party's approach to rejuvenation and our understanding of giving opportunities to young people in politics.
In the future, as in the past, we aim to raise a healthy and strong youth that is sensitive to the issues of our country and the environment by actively involving youth in decision-making processes.
In our view, youth should think, question, be open to innovation and development, respectful of differences, have moral values, be responsible, knowledgeable and self-confident, and take an active role in shaping our future by participating in decision-making mechanisms.
a. What We Did
We thought about the future of our youth in every step we took.
Throughout our governments, we have taken very important steps to ensure that our young people grow up well, become well-aware citizens, and strengthen themselves mentally and physically through culture, arts and sports.
We established the Ministry of Youth and Sports to provide and expand services for young people with a holistic approach.
We ensured earlier participation of youth in decision-making mechanisms.
We lowered the voting age from 25 to 18.
In line with the transition to a professional army, we reduced the duration of compulsory military service from 18 to 12 months, reserve officer military service from 15 to 12 months, and short-term military service from 8 to 6 months.
We provided equal, equitable and quality education to our youth.
We increased the number of higher education institutions to 207 by establishing universities in every province.
We put an end to the injustice of the coefficient applied in university entrance.
We enabled approximately 800 thousand students who were dismissed from universities to continue their education with a general amnesty arrangement.
We lifted the headscarf ban, which for years had become a symbol of discrimination in Turkey.
We liberalized the headscarf in all areas where it was chased away from university gates and not allowed in government offices.
We abolished university tuition fees.
We have improved the housing, nutrition, scholarship and loan opportunities of our young people in higher education to much better levels compared to 2002 when we came to power.
Since 2003, we have provided scholarships or loans to every university student who applied.
When we came to power, while 450 thousand young people were given loans, we quadrupled this figure and started to give scholarships or loans to 1 million 590 thousand students, 401 thousand of which were scholarships and 1 million 189 thousand were loans.
We increased the monthly scholarship of 45 TL given to undergraduate students in 2002 to 470 TL.
We increased the monthly scholarship of 90 TL for master's students to 940 TL, and the monthly scholarship of 135 TL for doctoral students to 1,410 TL.
In 2002, students were provided with a monthly nutrition aid of 11 TL, while in 2017, with a 32-fold increase, we are providing 330 TL monthly nutrition aid.
We organize leadership and personal development seminars, awareness conferences, career talks, religious and values education, language and design, music and visual arts courses to provide our young people with knowledge and skills to prepare them for the future.
We increased the number of students benefiting from study abroad and exchange programs.
We have taken very important steps to address the housing problems of our young people in education.
We do not charge dormitory fees and deposits for children of martyrs and veterans, veteran students, those who completed their high school and equivalent education in the dormitories of the Ministry of Family and Social Policies, students under state protection, and students whose parents are no longer alive, enabling them to study under more comfortable conditions.
By building 589 new dormitories, we increased the number of dormitories for higher education students from 190 to 779 and the bed capacity from 182,000 to 629,000, tripling our bed capacity by 3.3 times.
We enabled local governments to build higher education dormitories for university students. We encouraged and accelerated the construction of dormitories through public-private partnerships.
We raised the standards of our dormitories.
We switched from ward-type rooms to modern rooms with wooden furniture, box spring, bathroom, toilet, refrigerator and fireproof mattresses.
In 2002, 83 percent of the total dormitory bed capacity had bunk beds, while this rate was reduced to 19 percent by the end of 2017.
With the completion of the dormitories we continue to build, we aim to completely abolish bunk rooms.
In addition to cleaning, security and 24-hour hot water facilities, our dormitories also have social environments such as common study areas, canteens and cafeterias.
In order to contribute to our students' academic studies and scientific research, we have provided 24-hour fast, secure and free access to the internet.
In all our dormitories, we have established social environments where students can spend their time with their friends without the need to go outside.
We supported our young people to participate more actively in social life.
We enabled young people between the ages of 15-18 to establish associations.
The number of associations registered with the General Directorate of Youth and Sports to engage in youth activities increased from 125 in 2002 to 670 by the end of 2017.
We expanded youth centers and camps and mobility programs.
In 2002, we increased the number of youth centers from 9 to 313 in 81 provinces.
The number of members of our youth centers, which was 5,120 in 2002, reached 1 million 881 thousand in 2018.
We supported projects that contribute to the personal and social development of youth.
For the first time, we provided incentives for youth employment.
To encourage the employment of those over 18 and under 29, we covered the SSI premiums of young people at certain rates for 5 years.
We introduced a 75 thousand TL earnings exemption for young people who start a new business for 3 years.
For the first time, we provided tax exemption for the capital companies of young entrepreneurs.
Between 2002 and 2018, around 2.3 million jobs participated in İŞKUR Vocational Training Courses.
We offered employment opportunities to 65 percent of the trainees and 75 percent of the participants in on-the-job training.
We provide General Health Insurance to trainees who attend courses offered by İŞKUR.
In addition, we pay trainees 45 TL per day if they attend the course in the industrial sector, 25 TL per day if they attend the course in other sectors, and 75 TL per day if they attend the course in the IT sector.
We paved the way for our young entrepreneurs.
With the KOSGEB Entrepreneurship Support Program, we started to give 50 thousand TL Grant and 100 thousand TL 2-year grace period and interest-free loans to young people who start a new business.
We ensured that our young people benefit from health services in the best way possible.
We put all our children under the age of 18 under state security.
We started to provide unconditional health services to children under the age of 18, regardless of whether their parents have general health insurance.
With the regulation made in 2013, we granted an additional 120 days for young people who could not receive health benefits through their parents due to graduation from their schools, to benefit from health care through their parents.
With the regulation made in 2016, we ensured that those who study in high schools and equivalent institutions, provided that they do not exceed the age of 20 and those who study in higher education institutions, provided that they do not exceed the age of 25, are considered as general health insured for 2 years from the date of graduation, with the premiums to be paid by the state, and we enabled them to benefit from health services.
We protect our youth from bad habits.
In this context, we established the High Council for Combating Drugs.
We have prepared and implemented a comprehensive Action Plan on the fight against drugs, which poses a significant threat to our youth.
In this context, we are continuing to prepare the "Anti-Drug Strategy Document" and the "Anti-Drug Action Plan".
As part of the fight against substance abuse, we provided awareness raising trainings to a total of 2.8 million people.
We established anti-addiction outpatient clinics and services in hospitals and increased the number of ÇEMATEM and AMATEM.
In order to increase protective and preventive measures in the fight against drugs, we have introduced narcotics units in 50 provinces.
We are strengthening our effectiveness in combating addiction by training family physicians.
In 13 provinces, our Ministry established "Counseling Units" in youth centers to inform young people about the fight against all forms of addiction.
We supported young people's projects to fight addiction.
We made huge investments in sports.
We increased the number of sports facilities from 1,575 in 2002 to 6,279 in 2017.
In 2017, we spent 621 million TL for our sports facilities.
Since 2002, we have won a total of 46,627 medals in the Olympics and other international organizations, including 14,960 gold medals, 14,226 silver medals and 17,441 bronze medals.
We provided 43 provinces with giant stadiums with a capacity of 15 thousand to 50 thousand spectators.
We doubled the number of sports clubs and doubled the number of licensed athletes 22 times. In
2002, there were approximately 6 thousand sports clubs operating in our country, but with the support we provided, we increased the number of sports clubs more than 2 times to 14.2 thousand.
We increased the number of licensed athletes by 23 times, from 370 thousand to 8.4 million.
We hosted 772 international sports organizations in the last 16 years.
b. What We Will Do
In the coming period, we will ensure that our young people take an active role in all areas from decision-making processes to social policies, from education to employment.
Our primary goal is to ensure that our young people receive quality education.
AK Party wants young people to have a good job,
build a healthy family and
will continue to prioritize quality education to help them become responsible members of society.
In this context, we will further strengthen the democratic and scientific education grounds of our youth at all levels of education and universities and continue to improve their freedoms.
We will realize a qualified learning and research and development process by increasing the quality and scientific-technological facilities of higher education institutions.
We will make our country a center of attraction for young scientists, artists and athletes.
We will increase the number of students sent abroad for master's and doctoral programs.
We will send 10,000 undergraduate students, 1,000 master's students, 500 doctoral students and 100 doctoral graduates who meet the objective success criteria to be determined during their education abroad for higher level education.
After their training, we will ensure their employment in Turkey in order to contribute to the qualified manpower of our country.
We will ensure that the reading habits of our youth and children, our potential youth, are improved.
We will diversify our children's, public and university libraries in terms of collection and enrich their content.
We will train 10,000 young talents, who will be identified under objective criteria, as experts in 20 specific fields that are of strategic importance in today's conditions.
We will provide dormitories for every student who applies.
We will increase the necessary infrastructure, physical capacity and quality of our dormitories according to the conditions of the day.
We will continue to provide student loans to every student who applies and scholarships to students in need.
As we have done so far, we will open more space for young people in politics.
The perspective of young people will be more reflected in politics and they will have political experience at an early age.
We will increase the influence of young people on local politics.
Especially in our Municipalities and Municipal Assemblies, we will ensure that our young people take part as the main actors.
We will bring dynamism to our neighborhoods with young mukhtars.
We will encourage young mukhtar candidates, we will facilitate legal and bureaucratic conditions for candidates between the ages of 18-30.
We will actively implement supports that will direct our young people to the arts.
We will ensure that our young people receive professional training in art branches and represent our country in the international arena with the Culture Houses we will establish in order to encourage and support our youth to grow up as individuals sensitive to culture and art throughout our country.
We will also raise young people with an artistic spirit through youth plateaus.
We will enable our young people to get to know different cultures and develop different perspectives.
We will organize Cultural Trips Abroad in order for our young people to see more easily the greatness of our country's heartland and the mission that our deep-rooted history imposes on us.
We will expand and diversify mobility programs to include especially disadvantaged young people.
Following the Mevlana and Farabi programs, we will implement the Ibn Haldun Global Student Exchange program within the Council of Higher Education, which will enable students from all countries of the world to study in our country for a certain period of time and ensure that our country is recognized all over the world.
We will continue to strengthen the necessary physical and social infrastructures to facilitate the lives of young people with disabilities and ensure their integration into society.
Our anti-addiction programs will continue in full force.
The High Council for Combating Drugs will be made to work more effectively, and the number and quality of Narcotimes established around schools will be further increased.
Especially in the fight against drugs, we will ensure that deterrent measures that will ensure social consensus are brought to the agenda.
We will organize training programs in every province to combat substance abuse.
We will also provide awareness trainings to young people participating in our activities in all our youth centers.
We will further strengthen youth entrepreneurship and expand it across the country.
In order to make it easier for young people to stand on their own feet, we will reduce the application procedures for financial aid for young people with an entrepreneurial spirit.
We will encourage young entrepreneurship with programs on financing, technology, business and marketing.
We will permanently reduce the youth unemployment rate and create qualified employment opportunities for our youth.
By establishing "Career Centers" for our youth, we will help young people with their education and career planning in the transition from secondary to higher education.
We will make it easier for our young people to take their first steps into employment while studying at university by involving our university students in social programs (tree planting, elderly care, social services, teaching, etc.).
We will provide job and career guidance to young people who have graduated from high school or university.
Following their graduation, we will train our young people, especially those who want to work in state cadres, to see the work in the kitchen with the "Young Manager Training" programs, the number of which will vary according to the specialization areas to be opened within the state cadres while they are still pursuing their undergraduate education.
We will establish a "Vocational Youth Database" that will cover high school, associate, undergraduate, graduate and doctoral students and graduates within the relevant institutions.
We will ensure that the database is linked to both the public and the joint private sector personnel information system infrastructure to be established.
We will accelerate the employment process by making it easier for young people and employers to find each other.
We will prepare the "Turkey Youth Employment Vision Document".
We will determine both public and private sector employment plans and opportunities in the most detailed way with a multi-faceted and detailed roadmap aiming to utilize the human resource potential of our country in the most efficient way, and we will make a qualified contribution to the increase in youth employment.
We will offer flexible working conditions for young people.
Especially for our young people who continue their education while continuing their professional business life, we will provide all necessary social and financial rights support from a bureaucratic point of view, and we will ensure that they can comfortably continue their education together with their business life.
We will establish White Cafes in our municipalities where unemployed young people will be employed, and we will ensure that sports and artistic activities, which are the gifts of our culture, are carried out in the cafes.
We will facilitate the electronic delivery of services related to military service.
We will enable Reserve Officer Candidates to carry out their Pre-Deployment Preparation Procedures via e-Government without going to the military branches.
We will enable the obliged to make their postponement and postponement cancellation requests through the e-Government portal without going to the military branches.
We will allow the Credit and Dormitories Institution (KYK) to share the information of students who have used student loans and have been conscripted to the military through the e-Government Gateway.
We will ensure that our youth benefit from sports and artistic activities more widely.
We will increase the number of youth and culture centers in all provinces.
We will increase the number of youth camp facilities and the number of young people participating in camps, and ensure that more young people benefit from activities and projects.
The youth centers within our municipalities will work more actively and offer educational, social and sportive activities to our youth free of charge.
By establishing Special Olympics Academies in certain regions of our country, we will identify our qualified athletes and ensure that these children receive all their education free of charge at these academies.
Especially after secondary school education, until the end of high school education, we will ensure that all our students are licensed as athletes in a sports field.
As AK Party governments, we include what we will do about youth, which is at the center of our policies, not only under the title of youth but also under almost every title of our declaration.
Woman
Our women are the pillars of our families as well as social life.
The rights and welfare of our women, who are indispensable for our goal of a strong society and our development, and the elimination of the obstacles they face in social life are among the main priorities of our party.
In order to strengthen the status of women in society, our main goals are to enable women to better express themselves individually, economically and socially, to have better quality education opportunities, to be more involved in decision-making mechanisms, to provide social security and to increase the number of women entrepreneurs.
a. What We Did
As AK Party, we have given our women the value they deserve and strengthened their role in the development process of our country.
We realized many reforms for women during this period.
In our country, as in the whole world, we have realized many regulations that turn the disadvantaged position of women from the past into an advantage for the first time during our governments.
We have taken many important steps for the legal empowerment of our women during our government.
In this context, we reformed the Constitution, Turkish Civil Code, Labor Law, Turkish Penal Code, Municipalities Law and Income Tax Law.
We established Family Courts.
We ensured that domestic problems are handled by married judges in specialized courts.
We amended the Turkish Penal Code on gender equality and violence against women.
We introduced the principle of "Positive Discrimination" for women in the Constitution.
We enacted Law No. 6284 on the Protection of the Family and Prevention of "Violence against Women".
We ensured that perpetrators of honor killings are punished with the highest penalty.
We ensured stronger representation of women in politics. The
number of women in parliament increased from 24 in 2002 to 81 in the November 2015 elections.
We pioneered the establishment of the Commission for Equal Opportunities for Women and Men within the Turkish Grand National Assembly.
We have been running this Commission effectively.
Our women also had more say in local governments.
The rate of 0.9 percent of women mayors in 2009 tripled to 2.7 percent in 2014.
In local elections, the rate of female municipal councilors increased from 4.5 percent in 2009 to 10.7 percent in 2014.
During Turkey's G20 presidency in 2015, we pioneered the establishment of the Women20 (W20) platform and the "Women's Advisory Council" in the Organization of Islamic Cooperation.
We abolished the headscarf ban.
We made it possible for women who were discriminated against because of their religious beliefs, whose freedom of education was restricted and discriminated against because of their headscarf, to exercise their right to education and work.
We observed the principle of zero tolerance in the fight against violence against women.
We made legal arrangements to prevent domestic violence, honor killings and honor killings.
We continued to update and implement the "National Action Plan on Combating Domestic Violence against Women" with the participation of relevant parties.
We signed international conventions to be more effective in combating Violence against Women and Discrimination.
We became the first country to sign the Council of Europe Convention on Preventing and Combating Violence against Women and Domestic Violence without reservations.
The Optional Protocol to the United Nations Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women (CEDAW) entered into force in 2003.
In order to combat domestic violence, we have established Child and Women Section Chiefs in 81 Provincial Gendarmerie Commands.
We pay special attention to the training of personnel working in these units.
In the fight against violence against women, we launched the Women's Emergency Support Notification System (KADES) application, which can be used on smartphones, in order to transmit reports of violence more quickly.
We provide protection and shelter services to women and their children who apply to state institutions.
As of April 2018, we increased the number of Violence Prevention and Monitoring Centers (ŞÖNİM) across the country to 73. In
2012-2017, the number of people receiving services from ŞÖNİM reached 84 thousand.
We also introduced the obligation to open women's guesthouses for municipalities with a population exceeding 100,000.
We increased the number of women's guesthouses from only 11 in 2002 to 144.
We directed our women to vocational courses in our guesthouses.
We also ensured their participation in artistic, social and sports activities.
We created a kindergarten and a children's club.
We have effectively implemented our social protection programs to ensure that no woman is left defenseless and unclaimed.
In order to empower disadvantaged women and support their psychosocial, sociocultural, professional and personal development, we opened 140 Family Support Centers (FSCs) and 21 Social Solidarity Centers (SO-DAMs) across our country.
We launched a regular cash assistance program for women whose husbands passed away.
As of 2017, we provided approximately 283 thousand women with regular cash support of 275 TL per month.
In 2017 alone, we provided a total of 838 million TL in aid.
With the policies we implemented, we reduced early and forced marriages by half.
In 2017, the rate of girls married at the age of 16-17, which was 8.1 percent in 2003, decreased to 4.2 percent.
We launched the "Maternity Benefit" program, which allows all mothers to receive 300 TL for the first child, 400 TL for the second child and 600 TL for three or more children.
In this context, we paid approximately 1.3 billion TL for 3 million children.
We have achieved significant increases in schooling rates in primary, secondary and higher education through campaigns prioritizing girls.
We have increased the enrollment rates of female students and brought them on par with the enrollment rates of male students.
The policies we implemented during our governments raised the schooling rates for girls to 91 percent in primary school, 96 percent in secondary school and 44.4 percent in higher education.
We are proud to increase the rate of girls in higher education from 75 percent to 96 percent.
The literacy rate of women (aged 6 and above) increased from 79.9 percent in 2002 to 94.1 percent in 2017.
We have implemented many projects and campaigns for the education of our women.
With the "Let's Go Girls to School" and "Mother and Daughter are in School" campaigns, thousands of women learned to read and write.
With the "Mother, Father, Child Education Project", we provided trainings on topics such as "Domestic Violence, Honor Killings and Child Abuse".
In all our provinces and districts; 986 public education centers, 340 vocational training centers, 17 technical maturation institutes for girls, 10 tourism training centers, 234 guidance and research centers, 106 science and arts centers, 12 adult technical education centers, in total 1,705 non-formal education institutions became operational.
We supported women's employment with strong and diverse incentive mechanisms.
In order to encourage the employment of women, we covered the employer's share of insurance premiums at certain rates.
In 2011, Law No. 6111 introduced positive discrimination for women, stipulating that if women start working after the age of 18, their insurance premiums and employer shares will be covered by the Unemployment Insurance Fund for 12 to 48 months, subject to certain conditions.
With the same law, we enabled housewives to retire voluntarily.
We introduced flexible working hours for women.
We increased the temporary incapacity allowance and breastfeeding allowance given to insured mothers who give birth.
We introduced the right to work part-time after childbirth.
We have implemented policies to harmonize work and family life for our women.
In this context, we ensured that the periods spent on unpaid leave due to maternity leave are evaluated in civil service seniority.
We granted all working women, both laborers and civil servants, the right to part-time full-paid work for 2 months for the first child, 4 months for the second child, and 6 months for the third child or more, depending on the birth of the child, and the right to part-time work for both parents until the child starts school.
In order to balance family and work life, we initiated efforts to open kindergartens in organized industrial zones.
We exempted daycare payments made by employers on behalf of working women up to TRY 1,000 from the tax on wage payments for these women.
We removed the requirement for women farmers to be the head of the family to be covered by insurance.
With an amendment to the Income Tax Law, we exempted income from the sale of home production from tax.
We are making early retirement arrangements for housewives and working mothers.
Thanks to the policies we pursued and the projects we implemented in the field of women's employment, the labor force participation rate of women increased from 27.9 percent in 2002 to 33.6 percent in 2017.
b. What We Will Do
We will continue to resolutely implement the policies we have implemented and the work we have initiated to minimize the main problems related to women in our society and to further empower women individually and socially.
As we move towards 2023, we will further increase the effectiveness of women in decision-making mechanisms.
We will strengthen the participation and role of women in every field, from politics to bureaucracy, from cultural and artistic life to civil society activities.
In this context, in order to further strengthen the position of women and increase the effectiveness of our practices, we will review the legislation on women in consultation with relevant parties.
We will raise the net schooling rate of girls to 100 percent in all levels of compulsory formal education.
To this end, we will take the necessary measures to ensure that girls continue their education, with a particular focus on improving early childhood education.
We will raise the literacy rate among women to 100 percent.
We will ensure that the employment incentives we have introduced for women's employment will continue in a strong manner.
We will continue to work in strong cooperation with all parties to expand day care centers in 300 Organized Industrial Zones across the country.
We will strengthen opportunities for vocational training and skills development and women's entrepreneurship to increase the employment of qualified women in the labor market.
We will launch a certification program for businesses and organizations that observe equal opportunities for women and make positive discrimination against women.
Trainings that provide vocational skills that will create agricultural and non-agricultural employment opportunities for women in rural areas will be included and expanded.
We will strengthen protective and preventive services.
We will resolutely take all measures to prevent early marriages and violence against women, as we have done so far.
We will improve the service capacities of units providing services to victims of violence, especially Violence Prevention and Monitoring Centers (ŞÖNİM) and women's guesthouses.
We will further expand ADEMs and SODAMs in the coming period to support disadvantaged women.
As in the case of youth, we include what we will do for our women, who are at the center of our policies, not only under the heading of women but also under almost every heading of our declaration.
Family, Children and Dynamic Population
We consider strengthening the family institution, which we see as the building block of our society, and increasing the number of our children and ensuring that they grow up in a qualified manner as the main axis of our development social policies.
We see our family structure as a very strong social aspect compared to many developed societies.
We owe our survival against difficulties and the high level of social solidarity in the historical process to our strong family structure.
We consider our families as carriers of the values that make us who we are and as important bridges that connect the individual to society and society to the individual.
As AK Party, we consider the protection and strengthening of the family institution, whose strength and value is eroding all over the world, as an important policy area for the survival of our nation and our social future.
a. What We Did
We constantly updated and implemented our policies to strengthen the family institution.
As AK Party, with our motto that the basis of a strong society is a strong and happy family, we see the family as the first and most important educational institution that ensures the healthy transfer of our social values between generations.
It is vital that our children, the guarantee of our future, grow up in a quality family environment, grow up mentally and physically healthy and bring dynamism to society.
In 2011, we established the Ministry of Family and Social Policies in order to strengthen institutional ownership of family policies at a single institutional level and gathered social assistance and services for the family under a single roof.
We have attached great importance to preserving our dynamic population structure.
Our party builds the future of our country on our young population and attaches great importance to the dynamism of our population.
Not only in terms of development and prosperity, but also for centuries to come, we see it as possible only with a young, dynamic and high quality population structure.
We believe that our society, which is slowly experiencing the aging process that all developed and developing countries are going through, should prosper without aging.
To this end, we are formulating policies and implementing measures to delay the aging phenomenon and slow down the fertility rate as late as possible.
We have made a serious change in our population policy, abandoning the fertility-reduction policies that had been in place until the 2000s and shifting to fertility-increasing policies.
In this context, we have introduced the possibility for working women to borrow for childbirth up to the third child.
We facilitated access to in vitro fertilization and provided 5th region incentives for nurseries and day care centers to be established by the private sector.
We extended leave rights for adoption, death of a working mother and premature births.
We regulated paternity leave for workers whose spouse gives birth.
In 2016, we launched the "Dowry Account" to encourage marriage among young people and the "Housing Account" to contribute to the house purchases of our citizens who want to become homeowners for the first time, and we increased the limits of state support in 2018.
We have prepared a "Pre-Marriage Education Program" in order to raise awareness of our young people who have reached the age of marriage and to prepare them for married life.
With the 3,500 trainers we trained across the country, we provided training on communication and life skills in marriage, family law, marriage and health to 760 thousand young people who are about to get married.
We have established effective mechanisms to identify and monitor social risk factors.
With the Family Social Support Program (ASDEP), we launched a new supply-oriented era in social policies.
Our ASDEP officers reach our families one by one and evaluate the social risk factors for the disabled, elderly, women and children one-on-one.
Through household visits, we personally identify the social assistance and social service needs of families and disadvantaged groups on site and ensure that our families benefit from services appropriate to their situation.
In this context, we have visited 900 thousand citizens in 350 thousand households with 3 thousand ASDEP officers since October 2017.
We successfully implemented the programs we developed by prioritizing family education.
With the Family Education Program (FEP), which we prepared to meet the information and training needs of families and increase their problem-solving skills, we trained over 1 million citizens with 8,000 trainers across our country in 5 areas: education and communication, health, economics, law, media.
We launched "Family and Divorce Process Counseling" services.
We provided counseling services to about 15 thousand couples across the country.
Approximately 40 percent of those who benefited from this service before and during their divorce decided to continue their marriage.
Our main motto has been to improve the living standards of our children and move them forward.
We have created a child protection system where our children will receive a good education, protection and access to quality services in the event of difficult circumstances.
We provided conditional education assistance to low-income families.
In 2017, 2.3 million people benefited from Conditional Education Assistance.
Since 2002, we have paid 6.2 billion TL.
We meet the basic school needs of children of families in need, such as aprons, shoes, bags and stationery.
Taking into account the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, we have made fundamental changes to the legislation.
In the Constitution, we have adopted the principle of positive discrimination for children.
We put children under 18 under state protection.
We ensured that all health services are covered by the state.
We introduced the possibility for the state to cover the treatment costs of children aged 0-18, even if their parents do not have social security.
We started to run social support programs for children in need of special attention.
By launching the Orphan and Needy Military Child Aid, we started to provide regular monthly aid of 100 TL for these children and supported 90 thousand children in 2017.
We have made a quiet revolution in childcare services.
We have closed dormitories and day-care centers where large numbers of children were being accommodated and transformed them into children's homes and children's home sites, which are home-type residential units close to the family environment.
We have prioritized the care of our children with their families instead of their care in homes and dormitories.
We support children who live with their families but need support without disrupting the integrity of the family.
We support 105 thousand children with their families without placing them under protection.
The number of children taken under protection but supported by their families is 5,460.
We make social and economic support payments to mothers for their children.
As of October 2016, we made a monthly payment of 653 TL per child for 78 thousand 816 children.
Thanks to these supports, 11,181 children have been returned from institutional care to their families in the last 12 years.
We launched the "Heart Ambassadors Project" for the benefit of children in need of protection.
We strengthened the "Foster Family Model" through volunteering and awareness campaigns.
For legally eligible children, we prefer family care instead of institutionalization.
Within the scope of adoption, we reunited 16 thousand children with their families.
Within the scope of foster families, we have increased the number of children from 520 to 5,878 compared to 2002.
In the last 16 years, we returned 14 thousand children in institutional care to their families.
16 years ago, we increased the number of children's homes from 3 to 108.
We launched the children's homes program and reached 1,195 children's homes.
As of 2017, the number of children served in children's homes increased to 6,343.
As of today, 14 thousand children are cared for in our home-type institutions instead of ward-type dormitories.
This reduction is also the result of the success of our Social and Economic Support (SED), foster care and adoption practices.
When we came to power, in the institutions where we provided social services for children, 20 children were served with 1 care staff; today, 5 children are served with 1 care staff.
Our children under protection and care are educated in private schools within quotas.
In this context, the number of children benefiting from free kindergarten services is 2,400.
In addition to private nursery and day care centers, our children also receive kindergarten and kindergarten services.
We expanded early childhood education and increased schooling rates.
With the measures we have taken to increase the educational achievements of our children under protection, we have increased the rate of children receiving certificates of appreciation and thanks from 14 percent to 60 percent in the last three years.
Within the scope of Conditional Health Assistance, we have transferred a total of 2.5 billion TL to the families of 1.2 million children on condition that they have regular health checks.
In cooperation with the Presidency of Religious Affairs, we launched values education to help our children acquire national and spiritual values.
We increased the number of children benefiting from Social and Economic Support (SED) services by 7 times compared to 2002, reaching 110 thousand.
By encouraging the employment of young people leaving institutional care, we enabled them to stand on their own feet.
We have made an arrangement to cover the employer insurance premiums of our young people if they are employed in the private sector.
We ensured that our children were employed in positions appropriate to their graduation.
We ensured the public employment of 45,739 young people who grew up under the protection of our state.
We have changed the appointment period from once a year to at least three times a year.
We extended the eligibility application from 2 to 5 years.
We have met the housing and other compulsory needs of young people leaving institutional care until they are employed.
In our 16 years in power, we have actively fought against child labor.
Accordingly, we declared 2018 as the Year of Combating Child Labor.
We established 117 mobile teams in 81 provinces to intervene with children in street labor and reached 7,000 children in the last year.
We have established new specialized centers for the rehabilitation of children who have been dragged into crime and victims of crime.
We set up special courts for our children.
By establishing child support centers, we secured children who are victims of crime, dragged into crime and at risk on the streets.
b. What We Will Do
In the coming period, we will continue to expand family education programs to protect the integrity of the family and strengthen our dynamic population structure.
In order to preserve the dynamic population structure of our country, we will continue to implement policies to keep the total fertility rate at least at replacement level.
We will increase the participation of family members in economic and social life through the services we provide through our social service units.
We will continue to strengthen the ASDEP application.
In this context, we will visit 2 million households every year in the coming period.
We will increase the number of ASDEP officers and ensure that there is 1 ASDEP officer responsible for every 3 thousand households.
We will create social risk maps of our country with the Family Information System supported by ASDEP.
In this way, we will provide data for effective national and local policies to detect and prevent threats to family integrity at an early stage and to mitigate the risks that arise.
With the Family Education Program, we will provide training to 400 thousand citizens every year; and with the Pre-Marriage Education Program, we will provide training to 100 thousand young people who are preparing for marriage every year.
We will ensure the development of services to prevent domestic violence, neglect and abuse, and to reduce bad habits and addictions.
We will pursue more active family policies for our citizens abroad.
We will visit Turkish families, listen to their problems in their households and take initiatives to find solutions.
In cities where Turks live abroad, we will organize courses for our third generation young people to use Turkish well, and we will further strengthen their ties with Turkey.
We will ensure that our children are raised as conscious, well-educated, respectful and self-confident individuals with humanitarian and moral values.
We will continue our fight against violence, neglect and abuse against children with zero tolerance.
We will complete the risk mapping study we initiated to protect children against the risks of neglect and abuse.
We will launch a child and family guidance mobile application and web portal application that includes educational, awareness-raising and guiding information on children's developmental periods and problem areas.
We will increase the weight of family-oriented care services in the care system.
We will expand the foster care of children, starting with the 0-6 age group.
We will support the fight to reduce obesity in childhood and adolescence to promote healthy child development.
We will ensure that institutional structures for the treatment and psycho-social rehabilitation of drug-addicted children work more effectively.
We will introduce a specialized rehabilitation system for our children and ensure that children who are victims of crime or dragged into crime are reintegrated into society in the fastest way possible.
We will build on existing child- and mother-friendly health practices.
We will create and popularize child-friendly cities model in local governments.
We will prepare support programs for the creation of a child-friendly social and cultural environment.
We will raise awareness to strengthen the harmony between family and work life.
Poverty Alleviation and Social Protection
As AK Party, we determine our economic and social policies within the framework of our human development approach that prioritizes social justice.
Every single person is precious to us and we are responsible for every single person.
We see increasing human welfare and providing a fair and minimum income in the society as a fundamental duty.
To this end, we consider eradicating poverty, providing social support to everyone in need, reducing the need for social support and further improving income distribution among our main tasks.
a. What We Did
Since the first day we came to power, we have extended our hand to all citizens in need of social protection and we will continue to do so.
When we took office, the first thing we did was to eliminate the disorganization in the field of social services and assistance and to unite the organizations and policies in this field under the roof of a single ministry.
We have expanded our centers, which are the gateway for our citizens to access social services.
For this purpose, we opened 280 Social Service Centers across the country during our governments.
We have determined our social policy principles according to the demands and expectations of the lower and middle income groups, those in need, citizens with barriers to social participation, the poor and people experiencing inequality of opportunity.
By reducing poverty, we have not left a single person in Turkey whose per capita expenditure is below 1 dollar and 2.15 dollars per day.
In 2002, 30.3 percent of the population spent less than USD 4.3 per capita per day, while this figure dropped to 1.5 percent in 2015 thanks to the policies we implemented.
According to the World Bank's Sustainable Development Goals Atlas 2017 report, Turkey became the country with the highest reduction in poverty rates in the world.
We have eliminated absolute poverty, which is an issue for developing countries.
In the coming period, we will tackle relative poverty, which is a problem for developed countries.
We distributed income more fairly.
We reduced the "Gini Coefficient", which measures inequality in income distribution, from 0.44 in 2002 to 0.40 in 2016.
According to the Human Development Index announced by the United Nations Development Program (UNDP), Turkey rose from 85th place among 168 countries in 2002 to 71st place among 188 countries in 2015.
Thus, our country has moved up to the category of "high human development".
Financial resources, which were largely allocated to interest expenditures before the AK Party government, were shifted to social policies, investments and personnel expenditures in the environment of confidence and stability we created.
During our governments, we increased the ratio of social expenditures to GDP, which includes education, health and social protection expenditures, from 13.3 percent in 2002 to 16.2 percent in 2017.
As a requirement of our social state approach, we increased the share of social expenditures in general government expenditures from 33 percent to 46 percent in the same period.
We nearly tripled the ratio of social assistance spending to GDP.
Thus, while we allocated a total budget of 1.6 billion TL for social assistance and services in 2002, we allocated 50.8 billion TL in 2018, a 32-fold increase.
In the last 16 years, we have provided approximately 240 billion TL in social assistance to our citizens in need.
We implemented our social assistance policies in a more inclusive and robust manner.
Previously, only citizens without social security benefited from social assistance, but with the legislative amendment we made in 2012, we ensured that citizens with social security but at risk of periodic poverty could also benefit from social assistance.
In the provision of social assistance, we put an end to queues and waiting in queues.
In this context, we issued social assistance cards to 2 million households, informed beneficiaries via SMS when their assistance payments were made, and introduced payment at home.
We increased social assistance amounts to a level that meets the basic needs of beneficiaries.
In 2002, under the only aid program, our disabled citizens in need received a paltry monthly aid of only 24 TL, whereas today we have increased the monthly disability aid to 598 TL.
In 2017, we covered 7.7 billion TL of SSI premiums for 6.7 million citizens in need.
Since 2003, we have been providing heating aid to needy families.
Approximately 2 million families benefit from the scheme every year.
By diversifying assistance programs, we increased the number of households and citizens reached by social assistance.
In 2002, only 4 types of social assistance programs were implemented, whereas today we are implementing 40 different types of social assistance programs.
In this context, we started to implement regular social assistance programs for the disabled and the elderly, women whose spouses have died, needy military families, orphans, orphans and needy military children, as well as Tuberculosis and SSPE patients.
In 2012, we launched the Regular Cash Assistance Program for Deceased Women.
In 2017, we provided approximately 283 thousand women with regular cash support of 275 TL per month, totaling 838 million TL.
We launched the home care pension for disabled people in need and we also started to make monthly payments of two net minimum wages for disabled people who benefit from private care centers.
In 2017, we allocated 52 million TL for the foster family model, and 835 million TL for the economic aid and other social services we provide to enable children to live together with their families.
We have established the link between social assistance and employment.
We ensured that employable people receiving social assistance are directed to İŞKUR and their employment is encouraged.
We started to cover the employer insurance premiums of people employed while receiving regular social assistance.
As AK Party Governments, we have always protected the relics of our martyrs and our veterans by mobilizing all the means of our state.
We cannot do enough for our heroes who risked their lives without blinking their eyes for the stability and future of our nation and for our moon-starred flag to fly forever.
We see it as an obligation to protect our martyrs' relatives and heroic veterans, the precious relics of our beloved martyrs who gave their lives for our homeland, and to produce comprehensive social policies for them.
We established the Department of Martyrs' Relatives and Veterans within the Ministry of Family and Social Policies.
With a legal regulation, we have gathered all the rights related to our martyrs' relatives and veterans under one roof, which are included in 43 different legislations.
We introduced positive discrimination by adding the phrase "Measures to be taken for the widows and orphans of war and duty martyrs, disabled and veterans shall not be considered contrary to the principle of equality" to Article 10 of the Constitution of the Republic of Turkey.
We provided exemption from military service to one of the children of public officials (including security guards) and their siblings of the same mother and father who lost their lives while performing their military service within the scope of the Anti-Terrorism Law No. 3713, and to all of the children of civilians and their siblings of the same mother and father who lost their lives while assisting and benefiting in uncovering, reducing the effects of or eliminating terrorist acts.
We have made improvements in compensation rights and salaries for our martyrs' relatives and veterans.
Until 2002, we ensured that civilian citizens and other public servants who were harmed by terrorism could also benefit from the social rights granted only to public servants serving as security forces.
While 5,881 people were employed in the public sector between 1996 and 2002, during our governments, we employed 33,322 relatives of martyrs, veterans, duty invalids and civilian victims of terrorism.
We ensured that employment appointments for our martyrs' relatives and veterans, which were made every 6 months, are now made without waiting.
We have made arrangements for the appointment of martyrs' relatives, veterans and veterans' relatives to titles appropriate to the departments they graduated from.
We ensured that the parents of civilian victims of terrorism can also benefit from the right to employment.
We have doubled the employment rights provided to the beneficiaries of civilians who lost their lives while assisting in the detection, mitigation or elimination of terrorist acts.
We have provided the opportunity to provide a pension to the relatives of civilian victims of terrorism who lost their lives or became disabled, regardless of whether they have social security or not.
We increased the home care support provided to our veterans who are severely disabled to the extent that they cannot live without the help and support of others to twice the net amount of the minimum wage.
We ensured that the relatives of 250 citizens who were martyred in the treacherous coup attempt on July 15, 2016 and 2,727 veterans benefit from the social rights provided to other martyrs' relatives and veterans.
We provided Special Consumption Tax (SCT) exemption for vehicles to be purchased by one of the spouse or children of the martyrs, or by one of their parents if they do not have a spouse or child.
We introduced compulsory quotas for free education of children of martyrs and veterans in private schools.
We ensured that the children of martyrs and veterans can benefit from the dormitories of the Higher Education Credit and Dormitories Institution (YURTKUR) free of charge.
We also provided additional payments for education and training for the children of our duty disabled citizens.
We introduced the practice of providing education and training support to our children once a year according to their educational status.
We abolished the co-payment and surcharge for the medicines, orthoses/prostheses and other healing tools and equipment, assisted reproductive methods and treatments of disabled personnel (including conscripts/soldiers) who receive duty invalidity pension due to the events covered by the Anti-Terrorism Law No. 3713 and duty and war invalids in need of care.
We also provided interest-free housing loans to our veterans of duty and war invalids who could not benefit from interest-free housing loans.
We provided up to 40 percent discount on electricity and 50 percent discount on water fees used by our martyr relatives and veterans in their residences.
We made it possible for those who could not benefit from discounts in water and electricity fees within the scope of duty and war disability to use this right.
After our martyrs' relatives, we also granted free travel rights to the parents and children under 25 years of age of our veterans.
We launched the Aid Program for Needy Military Families.
We ensure that the families of our soldiers who are fulfilling their patriotic duty, who do not have social security and are in need, are supported with a monthly regular aid of 275 TL.
Within the scope of Turkey's Fight Against Addiction (TBM) and AEP, we provided 160 thousand people with awareness training on substance abuse.
We opened 4 Social Cohesion Units and 13 Child Support Centers specialized in the field of addiction in order to ensure the adaptation of our citizens to the society after drug treatment and to prevent them from starting drugs again.
We carried out activities to support social inclusion in provinces where Roma citizens live in large numbers.
As Turkey, we welcomed oppressed refugees.
In this context, we provided psychosocial support services to 371 thousand foreign guests.
We have made various tax arrangements to increase the welfare of our citizens and contribute to the improvement of income distribution.
In this context, we reduced the tax rate in the top income bracket of the income tax tariff from 49.5 percent to 35 percent and the tax rate in the bottom bracket from 22 percent to 15 percent.
We provide the opportunity to return to the simple method from the real method in income tax, and we do not collect income tax from the annual earnings of our tradesmen who are taxed in simple method up to 9 thousand TL.
We reduced VAT rates on basic needs and services to 8 percent in education, health, tourism and clothing, and to 1 percent on many food items.
We have included tax-exempt tradesmen in some professions that have traditional, cultural and artistic value and are in danger of disappearing.
We fixed the special communication tax rates at a single rate of 7.5 percent.
We provided a discount on the MTV paid by our minibus tradesmen by ensuring that their vehicles taxed as buses are taxed as minibuses.
We reduced the resource utilization support fund deduction to zero in agricultural loans up to 15 thousand TL used by farmers.
b. What We Will Do
In the period ahead, we will rapidly fight poverty, further improve income distribution and continue our social protection policies for all groups in need.
We will continue to fight poverty effectively, leaving no citizen living on less than $4.3 a day.
We will further increase accessibility to social services and expand Social Service Centers (SSCs) across the country.
We will make the necessary administrative, legal and technical arrangements to ensure more effective, efficient and functional provision of social assistance and services.
We will develop programs to contribute to their social, cultural and scientific development by supporting successful children attending secondary and higher education of needy families benefiting from the Conditional Cash Transfer Program with cash aid.
We will cover the electricity costs and uninterruptible power supply costs of our citizens who live their lives dependent on devices due to severe chronic diseases.
In order to completely prevent duplication in social assistance, we will complete the integration of databases with public institutions and local administrations providing services in this field.
We will develop certification programs to reward local governments that stand out in social municipalism.
We will implement the Project for Accommodation of Companions of Poor Patients Coming from Out of Town and provide accommodation to poor companions coming from out of town for treatment in cooperation with municipalities.
We will strengthen the link between social assistance and employment and establish new mechanisms in line with the "Employment-Friendly Social Assistance Approach".
In this context, we will ensure that social assistance beneficiaries primarily benefit from vocational training, employment and Community Benefit Programs (TYP) provided by İŞKUR.
We will further increase awareness of social solidarity and develop mechanisms to encourage donations.
We will launch the Turkey Martyrs' Relatives and Veterans Solidarity Foundation as soon as possible.
We will provide awareness training to 100 thousand people every year in the fight against drugs.
We will expand our Social Cohesion Units in 81 provinces.
Elderly
Increasing the social welfare and meeting the needs of our elderly, who have raised us, kept us alive, continue to think about us until their last breath and constitute the spiritual strength of our families, has been among our main priorities.
Our elders, who serve as a bridge between our past and our present, are our most important values that enrich our society and provide cultural transfer.
With this approach, we, as AK Party, see it as an essential duty to provide a quality life for our elderly.
As AK Party, we look at our elderly as our wealth; we aim to increase their welfare and ensure that they lead a healthy and peaceful life.
We see our elders as sources of virtue and experience in our family and social life, and we consider respecting and honoring them as a fundamental element of our faith and tradition.
a. What We Did
As AK Party, we have implemented many practices for the welfare of our elderly, to whom we attach special importance during our governments.
Between 2002 and 2017, we increased the capacity of nursing homes 3 times.
To date, we have provided services in 389 nursing homes to approximately 27 thousand elderly people over the age of 60 who are in need of protection, care and assistance.
We have developed new architectural projects such as Site Type, Courtyard Type, Street Type Nursing Home Model for the elderly to live a healthy, active and active life.
We opened 47 Houses of Life for the elderly and 138 Houses of Hope for the disabled.
Thus, we enabled our disabled and elderly people to receive services at home.
We launched the "Elderly Support Program (YADES)" to support local governments' home care and day care services for the elderly in order to provide services to our elderly in need of care and support services in the places where they live.
With our Elderly Coordination Center (YKM), we provide one-to-one service to our citizens in 81 provinces and 970 districts via telephone, fax and internet.
With our legislative arrangements within the Ministry of Environment and Urbanization, and with the participation of local governments, public and private sector organizations, we have made common areas suitable for elderly and disabled people.
In this context, we have arranged common areas such as the front entrance, front garden, park, elevator, walkways and sidewalks in accordance with the use of the elderly.
We took books to the doorsteps of the elderly with the Mobile Library application.
We paved the way for citizens over 65 years of age, who meet the criteria for neediness, and one companion to benefit from State Theaters free of charge.
Citizens over 65 years of age can enter ruins and museums free of charge and benefit from CD, DVD and book sales at a 35 percent discount.
We have increased the penalties for violent crimes against the elderly.
We increased health services for the elderly both qualitatively and quantitatively.
In 2007, we allocated a total budget of 43.4 million TL to the companions caring for 113 thousand elderly people for the home care service we started; in 2017, we increased this figure to 500 thousand companions and the budget 132 times to 5.7 billion TL.
We provide home health care services, which we launched for the first time in the whole country, in 81 provinces with 915 units, 1,111 vehicles and 4,605 personnel.
Since 2012, we have provided this service to 856 thousand citizens.
As of the end of 2017, 196 palliative care centers with a total of 3,335 beds were in service in our public hospitals.
We have opened more than 109 Elderly Care Associate Degree Programs within the Higher Education Institution.
We opened elderly companion courses within the Ministry of National Education.
As of 2017, 4,200 people have been awarded certificates in the courses.
Thus, we have trained personnel who will provide professional services to our elderly citizens.
We increased the financial welfare of our elderly.
We increased the pension for those over 65 20 times between 2002 and 2018, from 25 TL to 500 TL.
We introduced the free card application in municipal buses and private public buses for citizens over the age of 65 across Turkey and enabled them to benefit from free urban transportation.
With the regulation within the General Directorate of TCDD, we have implemented a 20 percent discount on train tickets for citizens aged 60 and over and a 50 percent discount for citizens over 65.
We have ensured that our elderly can receive their salaries at home if they request it. As of 2017,
we have made home salary payments to 12 million 599 thousand citizens.
b. What We Will Do
We will continue to take stronger steps to increase the participation of the elderly in economic and social life and to improve their quality of life.
We will implement programs for healthy and active aging.
Within the perspective of active aging in all areas, we will expand employment opportunities for our elderly to stay more in economic life.
By providing more support to nursing homes, we will provide environments where our elderly will feel like they are with their families.
We will further expand the support we offer under the Elderly Support Program (YADES) to support local governments' home care and day care services for the elderly.
We will develop a public-private partnership model for elderly care and rehabilitation services.
Disabled people
We see it as a fundamental duty to establish a social life where our disabled citizens do not have any difference from people without disabilities.
As AK Party, we strive to ensure the full participation of our disabled individuals in social life, to continue our efforts to enable them to be individuals who benefit from equal opportunities and exercise their rights, and to carry forward what has been done.
During the period of our government, our disabled citizens have started to be more involved in life.
We do not consider this sufficient and we aim to create a physical infrastructure where our disabled people do not feel their disabilities in any way.
Just as Turkey has made great strides in economy, politics, infrastructure investments and foreign policy, it has also revolutionized the problems of the disabled.
Our 16 years of reformist spirit can be seen most concretely in the regulations for the disabled.
a. What We Did
We shape our social policies for disabled citizens with an understanding based on "rights" rather than "aid".
We aim to eliminate all obstacles for our disabled citizens, to enable them to participate in employment, to get involved in life and to catch the rhythm of life more easily.
We signed the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities in 2007.
In 2009, it was approved by the Turkish Grand National Assembly and entered into force.
For the first time in our country, we enacted the Law on Persons with Disabilities.
With the principle of positive discrimination recognized in the Constitution, we have realized a revolution in mentality and law.
In addition to the steps we have taken to change the perspective of society towards disabled citizens, we have regulated the use of the term "disabled" instead of the term "handicapped".
In order to remove barriers to the participation of persons with disabilities in social life, we have made arrangements to make public areas, buildings and public transportation services accessible.
We have made very important arrangements to increase the employment of our disabled citizens.
We ensured that a separate and centralized exam (EKPSS) was held for the first time for disabled people to be appointed as civil servants.
While the number of disabled people employed in the public sector was only 5 thousand before 2002, we increased this number to 51,814 in 2018.
With the latest placements, this figure will be 53,964.
We introduced an obligation to employ 3 percent disabled people in the public and private sectors.
As a result of our employment policies for the disabled, we have increased the number of disabled people working in the public and private sectors to 165 thousand 447.
We granted special overtime rights to disabled civil servants.
In this context, our disabled civil servants are not assigned night watch and night shift duty against their will.
For people with disabilities, we have introduced flexibility in the start and end times of daily work and midday rest periods.
For the employment of our disabled citizens, we made arrangements for the creation of sheltered workplaces and provided the opportunity to deduct 100 percent of the annual gross amount of minimum wage payments for disabled employees from the declaration.
We also exempted these workplaces from environmental cleaning tax.
In 2002, the monthly salary of our disabled citizens was 25 TL; In 2018, we increased this figure to 615 TL for disability rates of 70 percent and above, and 416 TL for 40-69 percent, increasing the disability salary 25 times.
We granted pensions to those who lost their earning capacity.
We provided an easy retirement opportunity for disabled civil servants.
We granted the right to early retirement to disabled people who had 40 percent or more disability before they were insured, without any age requirement.
Insured persons who become 60 percent or more disabled after becoming insured are entitled to early retirement according to the disability provisions.
Mothers with severely disabled children can also retire 5 years early.
We further strengthened social protection practices.
We launched the home care pension for disabled people in need and we also started to make monthly payments of two net minimum wages for disabled people who benefit from private care centers.
We ensured that our severely disabled citizens are provided with a monthly home care support of two-thirds of the net minimum wage.
In 2017, we allocated 5.7 billion TL in home care assistance to 500 thousand severely disabled citizens and 5.3 billion TL to 1.3 million elderly and disabled people.
As of January 2018, 510 thousand disabled citizens benefit from Home Care Support.
In 2010, we launched Home Health Care Service for the first time.
As of 2017, the number of patients benefiting from our Home Health Service is 856 thousand.
We covered the care fees of approximately 15 thousand disabled people staying in 204 private care centers.
We provide needy pensions to mothers and fathers with disabled children under the age of 18, needy children without a mother or father, and citizens with a disability of 40 percent or more.
In 2002, while the needy pension of our disabled citizens was 115 TL, we increased this figure to 680 TL in 2018 and increased the needy pension 6 times.
We ensured that the costs of health services of our citizens who became disabled as a result of traffic accidents are covered by the Social Security Institution.
We realized exemplary practices by making accessibility arrangements to remove the barriers to the participation of disabled people in social life.
We provided support to ensure that accessibility is mainstreamed in cities.
We have planned the indoor and outdoor spaces where health services are provided in accordance with the disabled and the vehicles they use, and ensured that disabled people can move comfortably.
We established the Disabled Coordination Center (EKM) within our party.
With EKM, which is organized in 81 provinces and 970 districts, we provide one-to-one service to our citizens via phone, fax and internet.
Within the scope of the Disability Support Program (EDES), we directly reached 1.5 million people by allocating resources to 265 local projects in 40 provinces.
We ensured that 5,000 mosques were made suitable for the use of disabled citizens.
We removed barriers in transportation and communication and made lives easier.
For our disabled citizens, we have introduced free travel in public transportation vehicles affiliated with municipalities and municipalities, discounted travel in intercity passenger buses, free or discounted travel in TCDD and discounted flights in THY.
In this way, we provided free and discounted travel rights to 1 million disabled people and approximately 6 million elderly people.
In addition, we provided rights and discounts such as TTNET discount, discounted tariffs in GSM networks, discount on water fees, property tax exemption, SCT and MTV exemption, entrance discount to national parks, nature reserves and nature parks, museum and ruins entrance discount.
Approximately 729 thousand citizens benefit from these rights and discounts with their disabled ID card.
We removed barriers in education.
We provided children, youth and adults with disabilities equal educational opportunities with non-disabled people in integrated settings, taking into account their special conditions and differences.
While the number of disabled students benefiting from this service was 53,306 in the 2001-2002 academic year, we increased it 6 times to 333,598 in the 2016-2017 academic year.
We provided home or hospitalized education opportunities for individuals in need of special education at compulsory education age.
We transport disabled students to their schools free of charge.
In 2017-2018 academic year, we transported 84,194 students to their schools free of charge.
We spent a total of 1.2 billion TL on free transportation for our students.
For visually impaired students, we have prepared textbooks in Braille since the 2006-2007 academic year and distributed them free of charge.
We allocated education loans, contribution loans and dormitories to successful and needy disabled students by the Higher Education Credit and Dormitories Institution.
For the first time in Turkey, we developed the "Current Turkish Sign Language Dictionary" and put this dictionary into service on the web.
We have prepared Braille-printed Qur'an, Elif-ba, I Learn My Religion Book Series and audio-visual materials as well as a CD called "Seeers from the Heart" for the disabled.
b. What We Will Do
In the coming period, we will strengthen the infrastructure that will enable our disabled citizens to live as active individuals in economic and social life, especially in education, employment and participation, and establish an environment where our disabled citizens will feel their disabilities the least.
We will create an environment in youth centers that will allow young people and children with disabilities to engage in social activities during the day.
We will establish "Active Living Centers" where young people and children with disabilities can be safely left for short-term day and residential care.
We will expand sheltered workplaces to 81 provinces.
Within the scope of Job and Vocational Counseling services, we will establish a disabled job coaching model that facilitates the transition of disabled people to employment and ensures their sustainable employment.
In order to increase accessibility practices, we will accelerate our efforts to raise the level of public knowledge and awareness, and we will continue our publications and trainings in this field.
We will develop a public-private partnership model for disabled care and rehabilitation services.
Sport
We see sports as an important means of being a healthy society and socialization.
We believe that through sports, we can increase the quality of life of our generations in an environment away from bad habits, as well as create new job opportunities.
With this approach, we aim to establish a culture of doing sports in our society as a requirement for a healthy and active life, to increase the quality and diversity of sports services, to expand sports to the masses, and to create more job and income opportunities in every branch of sports.
a. What We Did
Since the day we came to power, we have attached great importance to sports at the individual and national level.
As AK Party, we have acted with the awareness of the medium and long-term positive effects of sports for a social structure consisting of physically and spiritually healthy individuals.
We made significant progress in the number of athletes and clubs, various sports infrastructures and sports organizations.
We increased the number of licensed athletes from 278 thousand in 2002 to 8.4 million in 2018.
We started to implement the Turkey Olympic Preparatory Center (TOHM) Project in 20 provinces in 18 branches in order to prepare athletes for the Olympics, where our people expect higher achievements, in the light of scientific data.
We increased the resources allocated to sports investments from the 2002 level of 63 million TL to 1 billion TL.
With these resources, we put a total of 1,951 sports facilities into service.
In this context, in the last 16 years, we have increased the number of athletics tracks from 12 to 56, swimming pools from 46 to 141, stadiums from 277 to 338, sports halls from 372 to 844, football fields from 578 to 1,329, and multi-purpose sports facilities from 264 to 530.
We have completed the construction of 92 Olympic and semi-Olympic swimming pools in 60 provinces.
28 swimming pools are under construction.
We provide 50 million TL aid every year to amateur sports branches, which we consider important for our people to engage in widespread sports activities.
We have provided 3.2 billion TL to 58 sports federations.
In the last 16 years, we have hosted 772 international sports organizations that have made significant contributions to the promotion of our country.
In order to enable every student to have a license in a sports branch and to bring successful athletes to our country, we started sports talent screening for approximately 4.2 million students from the 3rd grade of primary school and directed them to the branches suitable for their talents.
b. What We Will Do
In the new period, we will ensure the effective use of our existing infrastructures with qualified organizations with high added value.
We will continue to invest in human resources and infrastructure to spread not only the physical but also the socio-cultural benefits of sports.
We will continue to develop our sports infrastructure and sports culture with the aim of achieving more successful results in international events.
In the new period, we will increase the number of athletes and our sporting qualifications.
We will continue to build multi-purpose, cost-effective sports facility projects in suitable locations close to living areas.
We will continue the talent screening activities aimed at identifying sports talents at an early age.
We will increase our support for student athletes.
In order to train internationally successful athletes, we will improve athlete selection and guidance systems, create the appropriate physical infrastructure and continue to provide adequately equipped coaches.
We will continue to train elite athletes who can represent our country in national and international competitions at the Athlete Camp Training Centers in our country.
We will define traditional and new sports professions and create programs to certify and increase qualified training opportunities in these fields.
We will increase the number of Turkish Olympic Preparation Centers (TOHM) and through these centers, we will conduct training programs based on scientific foundations under the supervision of academic coordinators and experienced coaches.
We aim to participate in the 2020 Tokyo Summer Olympic and Paralympic Games with more athletes and achieve more successful results.
We will continue to take measures to improve the physical conditions of existing facilities and ensure their access and effective use by both professional athletes and citizens.
We will focus on promotional activities of our existing sports facilities, especially in provinces where we have invested significant amounts through international organizations, and we will ensure more effective use of these facilities at national and international level.
We will implement new business models led by the private sector to ensure that the facilities created by large investments do not remain idle and generate employment and added value.
Taking into account the regional development perspective, we will take new steps to develop sports tourism and improve the facilities and human infrastructure in these regions in an income-generating manner.
We will focus more on awareness-raising and information activities, especially on sports ethics, to prevent violence and doping in sports.
Working Life
During the period of our governments, we have taken and continue to take as a basis the establishment of labor peace, fairness in working life and decent working environments.
As AK Party, we act with the basic principle of giving the employee his/her rights before his/her sweat dries.
In the period ahead, we aim to fully establish a quality and secure working life in line with universal standards and international commitments.
a. What We Did
During our governments, we strengthened social dialogue mechanisms by attaching importance to labor-employer relations.
We made important arrangements to ensure labor peace.
The 2010 constitutional referendum was an important reform.
We made it possible to regulate the financial and social rights of public servants through collective bargaining.
In 2012, we introduced the right to collective bargaining for public employees.
The 1980 coup d'état-era trade union legislation was reformed with the Trade Unions and Collective Bargaining Law in line with EU norms and ILO Conventions.
With this law, we have facilitated the establishment of trade unions and removed restrictions on organizing and forming trade unions.
We switched to the e-Government System for union membership.
We eliminated the wage differences between public institutions for those with the same title.
We addressed the problems that had accumulated before our governments.
We paid 15.1 billion TL by liquidating the Savings Incentive Fund, which beneficiaries had given up hope of being paid, and 3.5 billion TL by liquidating the Housing Assistance (HAS) accounts.
We declared May 1st a public holiday.
We established an internationally recognized vocational qualification system to strengthen the link between education and employment.
We put into force 782 national occupational standards and 444 national qualifications in order to provide qualified personnel for working life, improve the occupational health and safety environment, and increase productivity and quality in production.
We have authorized 147 internationally accredited organizations across Turkey to carry out examination and certification activities based on occupational standards.
We have increased the annual examination capacity of these organizations to approximately 2 million people.
We increased the number of qualified labor force with Vocational Qualification Certificate to 350 thousand people.
We have made the Vocational Qualification Certificate a brand that is sought and demanded by the business world.
We introduced the obligation of Vocational Qualification Certificate in occupations related to hazardous work.
We have made our country one of the few countries in Europe that have established the qualification framework and made the Vocational Qualification Certificate the national certificate of our country with international validity.
We have signed very important regulations in the field of occupational health and safety.
We provided Occupational Health and Safety services to all employees regardless of public/private sector discrimination by implementing a separate Occupational Health and Safety Law and its sub-regulations.
We introduced incentives to increase the effectiveness of occupational health and safety services in hazardous and very hazardous workplaces.
We provided state support.
In order to ensure the implementation of occupational health and safety services in less hazardous workplaces, we trained 1 million 50 thousand employers and enabled them to carry out these services. As
of April 2018, the number of occupational safety specialists increased from 28,931 in 2013 to 110,416 (281 percent increase), the number of occupational physicians increased from 9,652 to 34,508 (257 percent increase), and the number of joint health and safety units increased from 1,017 to 2,518 (147 percent increase).
We have made it mandatory to use personnel tracking systems, refuge rooms and oxygenated personal rescuers in underground mines.
We made improvements in the working hours, annual leaves and job security of mine workers.
We supported scaffolding manufacturers that produce scaffolding in compliance with standards and safety.
The companies authorized within this scope also contribute to the national economy by exporting.
As a result of this practice, at the end of the project, we achieved a 40 percent improvement in occupational accidents caused by falls from height in construction sites.
We started to implement the Seasonal Agricultural Workers Project (METİP) to improve the living and working conditions of seasonal agricultural workers in the provinces where they work and to ensure that they benefit from public services effectively.
We reduced work accident rates.
While the occupational accident rate was 1.4 percent in 2002, it was 0.96 percent in 2017.
The rate of fatal occupational accidents decreased from 22 per 100,000 workers in 2002 to 8.9 in 2017.
We aimed to bring qualified labor force from abroad to our country.
In this context, we launched the Turquoise Card application and enacted the International Labor Law to make our country a center of attraction for foreign labor.
With this law, we have simplified the process of work permits and exemptions for foreigners.
In order to contribute to improving the investment climate, we ensured that work permits for foreigners are obtained electronically.
We have implemented a similar system for foreign seasonal workers (YUMI-Net).
In order to ensure continuity in the public service, we changed the status of some personnel.
In this context, we appointed 300 thousand contracted personnel to civil servant positions.
We have appointed approximately 20 thousand religious officials who were appointed as proxies to staff positions.
In 2007, we transferred 214 thousand people who were working in temporary labor positions to permanent worker positions or contracted personnel positions according to their status.
In 2017, we transferred 20 thousand temporary staff with 4/C to 4/B contracted personnel status.
We abolished the 4/C Temporary Personnel Status.
In 2014, we did not leave 15,377 employees working in special provincial administrations and municipalities that were closed down, but assigned them to other public institutions.
Subcontracted workers in public institutions and organizations within the scope of central government were directly recruited as permanent employees in the institutions and organizations where they work.
We ensured that subcontracted workers in local administrations are directly employed as workers in the economic enterprises of these administrations.
In this way, 900,000 subcontracted workers were employed as permanent workers.
We improved quality in the public sector.
We expanded the career specialization system to meet the need for qualified personnel in the public sector.
We switched to a norm staff system that reduces centralization in local administrations.
We included new forms of work in the labor legislation with an understanding of guaranteed flexibility.
We strengthened employees' maternity leave and rights.
We provided flexibility in annual paid leave.
We expanded the space for freedoms in the public sector.
We lifted the ban on headscarves in the public sector, which was the most important problem that once divided society into camps.
We introduced disciplinary amnesty for public employees in order to eliminate the negativities of the February 28 process.
We ensured that public employees are given leave if Friday prayers coincide with working hours.
We provided public employees with unpaid leave for Hajj worship.
We enabled the payment of quarterly collective bargaining bonuses to public servants who are union members.
We made it possible to conclude a Social Equilibrium Agreement between the union with the highest number of members in local administrations and the relevant local administration.
We established the Anti-Psychological Harassment Board to combat psychological harassment in the workplace.
In this context, we ensured that a grievance mechanism is established in public and private sector workplaces and that training is provided throughout the country.
During our government, we did not crush our public employees and pensioners against inflation, on the contrary, we increased their incomes in real terms.
We protected our minimum wage earners.
We increased the net minimum wage from 184 TL in 2002 to 1,603 TL as of January 2018.
Thus, the minimum wage increased by 126 percent in real terms and 770 percent in nominal terms in 2018 compared to 2002.
We ended the age discrimination of 16 in determining the minimum wage.
During our period in power, we provided our public employees with real salary increases above inflation.
From the end of 2002 until January 2018, while inflation increased by 286 percent, we increased the lowest civil servant salary, including family allowance, by 566 percent to 2,614 TL and achieved a 73 percent increase in real terms in the lowest civil servant salary.
Including the family allowance, the average civil servant salary, which was 578 TL at the end of 2002, increased by 428 percent to 3,054 TL in January 2018, an increase of 37 percent in real terms.
The monthly salary of mukhtars was 97 TL in 2002.
This figure was indexed to the minimum wage and increased to 1,604 TL in 2018.
We provided our pensioners with increases above inflation.
Between 2002 and 2018, we increased the minimum pension by 425 percent in nominal terms and 38 percent in real terms for civil servants, 510 percent in nominal terms and 60 percent in real terms for workers, 845 percent in nominal terms and 148 percent in real terms for tradesmen with Bağ-Kur, 1,597 percent in nominal terms and 345 percent in real terms for farmers with Bağ-Kur.
We have seen the positive results of the steps we have taken in the field of labor life.
The rate of informal employment decreased from 54.1 percent in 2002 to 33.6 percent in 2017.
In 2017, we increased the social security coverage from 48 million people with a rate of 70 percent in 2002 to 99.7 percent, embracing 80 million people.
In 2002, the number of İŞKUR job placements was 65 thousand, while in 2017, with a significant increase, we ensured that approximately 1 million people were placed in jobs through İŞKUR.
In 2002, the unemployment insurance fund assets amounted to TL 5 billion; by 2017, they reached TL 117d billion.
We implemented the National Program to Combat Child Labor.
b. What We Will Do
In the coming period, we will adopt an approach based on flexibility in working life, strengthening labor peace and social dialogue mechanisms, and increasing the participation of employees in decision-making mechanisms.
Occupational safety practices will remain one of our top priorities.
We will produce qualified Occupational Health and Safety services by introducing sectoral specialization.
To this end, we will conduct sectoral and regional risk analyses to prevent work accidents and occupational diseases.
We are launching our incentive scheme for very dangerous workplaces with more than 10 employees and no work accidents resulting in death or permanent incapacity.
With the Virtual Reality Center we will establish, we will increase the effectiveness of efforts to prevent occupational accidents and occupational diseases.
We aim to improve our cooperation with all our stakeholders on occupational health and safety and to promote safety culture in all segments of society.
We will strengthen administrative arrangements.
We will reduce the waiting time of our citizens abroad in consultancies and attaché offices.
We will ensure that our citizens can easily access the documents recorded electronically and shorten the processing time by enabling them to make their borrowing abroad transactions through e-government.
Within the scope of the Action Plan on Combating Psychological Harassment at Workplace (2018-2020), we will carry out activities to create a psychological harassment database and raise awareness.
We will continue to pursue active policies to attract skilled labor to our country.
We will establish a monitoring and evaluation system for international labor force at home and abroad and Turkish labor force abroad.
We will maintain the Turquoise Card application.
We will establish overseas promotion offices in the countries in need to ensure brain drain to our country and attract highly qualified labor force.
Within the scope of our country's international labor policies, we will increase bilateral labor agreements and ensure that qualified labor force is attracted to our country.
Our fight against child labor will continue strongly.
We will establish Units for Combating Child Labor in 81 provinces to accelerate efforts in this field.
We will implement projects to improve the living and working conditions of seasonal agricultural workers and their families and to prevent child labor across the country.
We will carry out impact assessment studies to diversify active labor force programs and redesign courses/programs.
We will implement new training programs to improve the qualifications of our youth and women and expand our career counseling services.
We will organize on-the-job training programs for future professions such as cyber security, cloud computing, game development specialist and coding.
With the "Voucher Method", we will ensure that young people receive flexible training from accredited vocational training providers at times and conditions convenient to them in professions in the IT sector that require qualified labor force.
We will increase Public-Private Sector Cooperation through the Vocational Education and Skills Development Cooperation Protocol (VETIP).
In order to ensure that our citizens receive profile-based qualified counseling in line with their skills, demographic status, social status, etc., we will conduct 20 million individual interviews in a 5-year period.
We will expand the number of "İŞKUR University-Liaison Points" in all universities in the coming period in order for our university students to take part in the labor market more effectively and make the right career planning.
Social Security
During our governments, we have adopted the social state and social justice approach as a fundamental policy to develop a social security umbrella covering our entire society.
We aim to create a sustainable and efficient social security system by establishing an equitable balance between employees, employers and pensioners.
a. What We Did
In the field of social security, which we regard as a fundamental right, we have realized important reforms during our governments.
As we promised as AK Party in November 2002, we have largely achieved our goal of creating a sustainable social security system that covers the entire population and all risks.
We gathered three separate social security institutions (SSK, BAG-KUR and Pension Fund) under one roof.
We expanded social security coverage and made it equal and easily accessible.
With the effect of the regulations we have realized, we increased the insured population rate from 78 percent in 2006 to 87 percent as of February 2018.
We established the General Health Insurance (GHI) system, which aims to provide quality and easily accessible health services and covers 99.5 percent of our population.
We intensified inspection activities to combat unregistered employment in order to prevent people from working without social security.
As a result of effective inspections and the regulations we implemented, we reduced the rate of informal employment from 52.1 percent to 32.5 percent in January 2018.
As a result of employment incentives and the fight against informality, we increased the number of active insured persons from 12 million in 2002 to 22 million as of February 2018.
Thus, we achieved an 84 percent increase in the number of active insured persons.
We opened 550 Social Security Centers (SSCs) across Turkey to increase access to social security services.
We made arrangements to ensure norm and standard unity in social security practices.
We facilitated access to health.
While the number of visits to a physician by a person was 3.2 per year in 2002, we increased this figure to 8.6 in 2017 with the inclusion of all citizens in the scope of the general health insurance and the opportunity to apply to any hospital.
We have started to carry out income determination procedures for those who are unable to pay premiums and for other persons who are excluded from general health insurance.
We ensured that the state pays the health premiums of those who are found to be unable to pay their premiums.
We included citizens with green cards in the scope of general health insurance.
Our social security system is in a strong financial position.
We restructured the SSI's premium receivables.
While the ratio of premium revenues covering pensions and health expenses was 63 percent in 2002, we increased this ratio to 72.3 percent in 2017.
We reduced the deficit to GDP ratio from 2.3 percent in 2002 to 0.7 percent in 2017.
We expanded regional employment incentives.
In regional investments, we started to apply a 5-point insurance premium discount for the employment of disabled people, young people, women and R&D activities.
In addition to this incentive, we provided an additional 6-point social security premium employer share discount in 51 provinces determined by taking socio-economic development indices into account.
As AK Party rulers, we have realized important actions for our citizens in the field of social security in the past period.
In this framework, we continued the minimum wage support we introduced in 2016 to ease the burden of the increase in the minimum wage on our employers in 2017 and 2018.
For women who do not work at home and do not engage in income-generating activities, we have introduced the possibility of voluntary insurance.
We made it easier for domestic workers to be insured.
We have also included residential janitorial workplaces in this scope.
By abolishing the obligation to take the income test, we unified the general health insurance premiums applied in 3 levels and provided access to health benefits with only 61 TL.
We have added one-fourth of the days worked by female insured persons who have a severely disabled child in need of care.
We made it easier for them to retire by reducing their retirement age.
We postponed the payment of social security premiums for those affected by natural disasters and terrorism.
We granted pensions to insured earthquake victims who became disabled as a result of the earthquakes in Kütahya/Simav and Van.
We ensured that the premium debts of the miners who lost their lives in the Soma and Ermenek mining accidents were canceled, unconditional pensions were granted to their beneficiaries and one of the relatives of the deceased miners was employed in the public sector.
We also granted the right to public sector employment to the relatives of those who lost their lives in work accidents that occurred in underground coal and lignite mines between 10/6/2003 and 13/5/2014.
By including Bağ-Kur insured persons under the scope of occupational accident and occupational disease insurance, we enabled them to receive temporary incapacity allowance and permanent incapacity income.
We started to provide breastfeeding allowance for insured and pensioners covered by Bağ-Kur for each birth.
We ensured that orphan girls from Bağ-Kur who get married will receive a marriage allowance amounting to 24 months.
We made it easier for Bağ-Kur members to borrow for military service.
We reduced the 10-year service period required for a pension to be granted to the widows and orphans of deceased civil servants to 5 years.
We have introduced the right to a pension for the deceased insured's needy parents over the age of 65.
We ensured that young people who receive orphan's pension and continue to be students will not have their pensions cut off even if they start working as an insured person, provided that they do not exceed the age of 25.
We ensured that employees working in penal institutions benefit from the actual service time increase.
We ensured that security guards were included in the scope of 4/a and their premiums were covered by the state.
We stopped collecting receipts and invoices.
We ensured that our young people's special and diplomatic passports are not canceled when they start working.
We provided premium support to employers who employ workers abroad.
We merged withholding tax returns and premium and service declarations.
We introduced health insurance for civil servants on leave without pay.
We have introduced the possibility for self-employed workers to make maternity borrowing.
We gave women the right to borrow for up to 3 children, 2 years for each child.
We have increased the number of IVF treatments we offer from two attempts to three attempts.
We abolished the obligation for part-time employees who work more than 20 days in a month to complete their general health insurance premiums for 30 days.
We made it possible for young people working part-time to receive health benefits through their parents.
We ensured that those under the age of 18 can receive health services under General Health Insurance unconditionally.
We ensured that insured persons who apply to health service providers in emergency cases will not be charged additional fees until the emergency is over.
We introduced home health care services.
We lifted the time limit for receiving treatment abroad.
We included our privates and conscripts in the scope of General Health Insurance without co-payment and additional fees.
We abolished the referral chain for Village Guards and enabled them to receive services from all health institutions.
We have increased the services we provide to patients undergoing cancer treatment.
We provided services for dental treatments, physical therapy and rehabilitation treatments for our disabled patients.
We provided privileges for heart, lung and cornea transplants.
We ensured that medical consumables and hearing aids are easily available from contracted centers.
We shortened the pension binding periods.
By reducing the monthly binding periods, which previously exceeded 3 months, to less than 20 days, we have prevented the victimization caused by the inability of our retired citizens to obtain the pension, which is the only source of income.
We have made it possible for our pensioners to receive their pensions at home if they wish.
We introduced the opportunity for pensioners to be paid up to 450 TL promotion through the banks where they receive their monthly salaries.
We ensured that these periods are also taken into account in the bonus payments of pensioners with more than 30 years of service.
We abolished the 15 percent social security support premium deduction from the salaries of our pensioners who engage in commercial activities after retirement.
We made it easier for Bağ-Kur members with premium debts to retire by providing them with bank loans on favorable terms.
We ensured that the periods spent in detention or imprisonment during the September 12 coup d'état could be added to their service periods by borrowing.
We restored the social security rights of the victims of February 28 and those who were dismissed from the Turkish Armed Forces by the YAŞ decision.
We enacted the Adjustment Law.
Thus, 65.3 percent of those covered benefited from the adjustment.
After October 2008, for the first time, we reduced the retirement age of underground miners from 55 to 50 and ensured that miners' leave, vacation, course and preparation for work are included in their actual service periods.
We made it easier for taxi and minibus drivers to be covered by social security.
We introduced the opportunity for our citizens abroad to be insured on demand.
We gave those who renounced their citizenship with permission the right to borrow.
b. What We Will Do
In the new period, we will update and strengthen our social security system in line with the principle of sustainability by closely following the changing conditions and developing standards in the world.
We are activating pension services.
We will continue to support the welfare of our pensioners in line with the economic development of our country.
In this context, we provide 1,000 TL pension bonuses twice a year on Ramadan and Eid al-Adha.
We are canceling the Social Security Support Premium debts of our pensioners who engage in commercial activities after retirement.
We will support complementary pension programs to increase savings rates and provide a second income in retirement.
By reducing bureaucracy and improving information technology systems and applications, we will provide our citizens with easier access to services.
We will increase the number of applications offered by the Social Security Institution within the scope of e-government.
With the implementation of the SSI integrated financial management system, we will ensure more efficient delivery of insurance, pension and health practices.
We will continue to follow all developments in the field of health and update the reimbursement lists and the Health Implementation Communiqué in the light of scientific data.
Patient and procedure follow-up, including image and test sharing, will be done electronically.
We will continue to support registered employment by prioritizing activities to increase social security awareness.
We will cover the Bağ-Kur premiums of young entrepreneurs between the ages of 18-29 for 1 year if they are covered by Bağ-Kur for the first time.
We will make it easier for Bağ-Kur insured persons to pay their social security premiums and freeze their past services so that they can benefit from health care.
We will raise awareness on social security and premium payments.
We will increase current period premium accrual and collection.
We provide ease of payment for the premium debts of employers, tradesmen and insured persons.
We are facilitating the premium debt payments of our citizens who are included in the scope of general health insurance because they do not have insurance in any scope, for the period of April 2018 and before.
We provide premium payment relief for compliant premium debtors.
We will create new health programs and establish cooperation models with the domestic pharmaceutical and medical device industry.
By realizing the "Plasma Products Production Project from Domestic Plasma", we will transition to a production structure that can produce high value-added products, meet a large portion of domestic needs and offer products and services to global markets in plasma products.
We will review reimbursement models for financing health services.
We will raise public awareness and create awareness on the correct use of health services.
Migration
We look at the issue of migration from a humanitarian point of view, and in this sense, we embrace all oppressed people in a manner befitting human dignity by exhibiting an exemplary approach in the world.
Within the framework of fundamental rights and freedoms, our main objective is to ensure that a significant portion of migrants return home safely as a result of temporary protection processes.
On the other hand, we aim to make maximum use of qualified population migration to our country, including irregular migration, and to ensure that they produce value in socio-economic life during their stay in our country.
a. What We Did
Turkey continues to be affected by migration flows due to its geographical and economic characteristics.
Because of our conscientiously responsible stance towards the oppressed, our country is a last stop or transit route for migrants.
The number of work permits issued to migrants increased from 22 thousand in 2005 to 74 thousand in 2016.
As of 2017, residence permits were issued to approximately 600 thousand people.
With the outbreak of the civil war in Syria, our country has been exposed to a massive influx of forcibly displaced migrants.
In this process, which is characterized as the largest migration wave in the world in recent history, Turkey showed its humanitarian aid reflex by implementing an 'Open Door' policy and became the country that accepted the highest number of asylum seekers in the world.
Since the first influx in 2011, we have established 26 Temporary Accommodation Centers in 10 provinces close to the Syrian border.
We have placed 216 thousand Syrians in these centers.
While the total number of Syrian asylum-seekers in Temporary Accommodation Centers in Turkey is 277,710, there are 230,315 Syrian asylum-seekers in accommodation centers in other countries.
We provide services to 7 percent of the asylum-seekers under Temporary Protection Status in our temporary accommodation centers in 10 provinces, consisting of 9 tent cities and 11 container cities.
By the end of 2017, approximately 3.6 million Syrians were registered under temporary protection status.
During the ongoing Syrian war, while fulfilling our humanitarian duty, we have also taken serious steps towards the safe return of a significant number of people to their countries.
We spent a total of 31 billion dollars for our Syrian brothers and sisters.
Within the framework of the Turkey-EU Joint Action Plan, a total of €6 billion in financial assistance was agreed for the period 2016-2021.
We granted work permits to Syrian asylum-seekers under temporary protection to reduce their economic and social dependency and to ensure that they can continue their lives without the need for third parties.
We enacted the Law on Foreigners and International Protection to improve protection in Turkey.
The "Temporary Protection" system to be provided in cases of mass influx has gained a legal basis with this law.
We provide services to our refugee brothers and sisters under temporary protection status through the Directorate General of Migration Management, AFAD, the relevant units of our ministries and non-governmental organizations.
We ensure that our refugee brothers and sisters benefit from education opportunities.
We provide education services to a total of 612 thousand Syrian refugee students, 384 thousand in our schools under the Ministry of National Education and 227 thousand in our temporary education centers.
We have certified 18,691 volunteer Syrian trainers to support education services in our temporary education centers through formation training.
We opened non-formal education courses to improve the skills and abilities of our adult refugee brothers and sisters, providing vocational training to 87,168 people and general education courses to 216,60 people.
We included Turkish language teaching within the scope of non-formal education and opened Turkish courses.
In 2015-2017, we provided language training to 171 thousand Syrians in these courses.
We organized training programs on prevention of violence and abuse, civil marriage, women's and children's rights for women and children who are more disadvantaged among our sisters and brothers.
To support the mental and physical development of Syrian children and youth, we built 116 thousand square meters of sports fields and 51 thousand square meters of playgrounds in our temporary accommodation centers.
We have set up over 1,000 multi-purpose tents, recreation and internet lounges.
We included our refugee brothers and sisters in the scope of general health insurance.
We provide free treatment in all public hospitals and temporary health centers for asylum seekers.
In this context, we provided over 35 million outpatient clinic services, performed 1 million 214 thousand surgeries and treated 1 million 460 thousand asylum seekers as inpatients.
There were 311,572 births in our hospitals.
Within the Ministry of Health, we established the international patient support hotline "444 47 28", which operates 24/7 in 6 languages, to provide counseling on issues such as family and women's health and to ensure rapid response in emergencies.
We provided psychosocial support services to erase the traces of the pain, trauma and war experienced by our Syrian brothers and sisters.
Within the scope of the Social Cohesion Assistance Program for Foreigners, we launched the "Red Crescent Card" application, which includes a monthly aid of 120 TL for our asylum-seeking brothers and sisters to meet their humanitarian and basic vital needs through the Turkish Red Crescent.
In order to be with asylum-seekers in our country whenever they need us, we have established the Alo 157 call line, which provides free service in 6 languages 24/7, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week within the Ministry of Interior Directorate General of Migration Management.
We aim to bring highly qualified manpower to our country.
In this context, we launched the Turquoise Card System, a new work permit application, in 2017.
We switched to the "e-residency" application, which allows applications for residence permits to be made online for faster processing.
With the e-residency application, we issued residence permits to a total of 1 million 50 thousand foreigners, 461 thousand in 2016 and 593 thousand in 2017.
b. What We Will Do
We will increase our institutional capacity on migration policies.
Within the scope of the 2023 Goals, we will develop policies to positively increase the impact of migration by carrying out all works and transactions related to migration management in a people-oriented manner.
We will strengthen institutional structures, human resources and technological capabilities at central and local levels in migration management, and ensure continuity in the personnel regime based on specialization.
We will complete the gaps in legal and institutional arrangements in the field of migration and international protection.
With the Regular Migration Strategy Document we will prepare, we will determine procedures such as visa, residence permit and settlement.
We will prepare the Anti-Trafficking in Human Beings Action Plan and lay out the roadmap for combating human trafficking.
The Foreigners Communication Center (YİMER 157) will continue its services effectively as a hotline for the identification of victims of human trafficking and rescue operations of foreigners who are victims of migrant smuggling at sea, and the service will be expanded.
In order to carry out "Combating Migrant Smuggling and Human Trafficking" activities more effectively in the area of responsibility of the Gendarmerie General Command, we will establish the necessary units for combating migrant smuggling and human trafficking in 19 provinces and 18 districts where irregular migration incidents occur intensively until 2023.
In addition to speeding up the processes regarding Meskhetian Turks resettled in our country, we will make the procedures regarding resettled migration more systematic.
We will plan adaptation policies and practices to address the health, housing and education problems of beneficiaries of international protection and prepare special programs for voluntary returns.
We will increase the efficiency of deportation procedures and ensure the establishment of a National Voluntary Return Mechanism for deported foreigners.
We will create a reliable data system on migration.
We will continue to update the data on more than 3.5 million Syrians under temporary protection.
The applications of those seeking international protection in our country will be meticulously examined and concluded by our Decision Centers, whose capacity is continuously increased.
We have 18 Removal Centers with a capacity of 12,276 people in 16 provinces, and construction of 8 Removal Centers with a capacity of 4,050 people in 7 provinces is ongoing.
In 7 provinces, construction works of 7 Removal Centers with a capacity of 3.150 people are ongoing.
When all constructions are completed, our total capacity will reach 19,476.
In 15 provinces, we started to establish migration counseling centers and completed 5 of them.
We will also start providing services through mobile migration counseling centers.
We will continue to provide services more effectively by adding IRIS, fingerprinting and irregular migration common database applications to the GöçNet corporate software.
Our main goal is to make our country a center of attraction for bright minds from all over the world by managing the migration phenomenon and to ensure reverse brain drain.
In order to facilitate the regular stay of foreign students in Turkey, we will expand the practice of universities receiving residence permit applications.
STABLE AND STRONG ECONOMY
As the Justice and Development Party, we have always prioritized the economy as a priority area and we have always focused on increasing the welfare and happiness of our people.
During our governments, we formulated and implemented our economic policies with a realistic and holistic perspective.
As in every field, we followed a people-centered approach in the field of economy.
As a party, we have always acted with the understanding that sustainable economic development is only possible with a well-functioning democracy.
To this end, we have formulated our policies with the awareness that the protection and development of rights and freedoms and the functioning of the law with all its institutions and rules are indispensable for a market economy.
We realized a significant breakthrough in the economy during our governments.
By ensuring macroeconomic stability and fiscal discipline, we increased our economic size, which is based on production, investment and exports, by 3.7 times and increased the welfare of our citizens.
While increasing per capita income, we also achieved significant improvements in income distribution.
With a strong Parliament and a strong government structure in the new government system, we will establish a strong economic structure where legislation is clearer and more predictable, the judicial system operates more quickly, the business and investment environment is further improved, intellectual property rights are further strengthened, and physical and social infrastructure investments that will pave the way for the private sector are continued.
We will continue to grow under the leadership of an innovative and entrepreneurial private sector and
by directing our resources more to productive areas.
improve competitiveness in all areas as an open economy
New era, growth and
will be a breakthrough period in the increase in qualified employment.
We will realize a high, sustainable and inclusive growth approach with all our policies.
Our priority strategies will be to improve our human capital, technological competencies and institutional capacity in a way to pull our potential growth upwards.
Women and youth will be at the center of this priority strategy, and we will increase opportunities for people to compete and realize their ideas in a fair environment.
In this period, we will further strengthen our macroeconomic stability and gains.
While maintaining fiscal discipline, we will increase the deepening of financial markets, reduce inflation to single digits and eliminate the current account deficit as a structural problem.
We will put our macroeconomic stability on a firmer footing and crown our economic performance with micro reforms.
We will increase domestic savings and attract more foreign direct investment to finance growth in a less costly and secure manner.
We will realize structural transformations targeting high added value in strategic sectors of our industry.
We will increase private sector investments based on high technology in these sectors.
Our qualified, entrepreneurial and innovative people will form the basis of our economy, which will grow in confidence and stability, and our enterprises that increase added value with knowledge and technology.
We will implement innovative policies and practices to support our businesses by further improving the business and investment environment.
Growth and Macroeconomic Stability
Our main vision is for growth to be strong, sustainable, balanced and inclusive.
With this vision, we aim to increase high and qualified employment within the framework of our goal of placing our country among the world's top 10 economies,
productive domestic production capacity
and make the private sector more competitive.
As AK Party, we aim to maintain confidence and stability in the economy and to further improve the investment environment with a free, open and integrated structure with the world.
In the period ahead, we will maintain economic growth without compromising this understanding.
a. What We Did
Thanks to the political stability and the environment of confidence that we have achieved during our governments, we have realized important structural reforms in the economy.
Thus, we achieved high growth rates that are exemplary all over the world and stood out as an emerging economy.
We ensured the free functioning of markets in a competitive environment with a rule-based economy for all.
In addition to trust and stability, we have implemented the principles of transparency, consistency and predictability in our economic policies.
We achieved and maintained macroeconomic stability, ending the periods of crisis that preceded our governments.
In an environment of economic stability, risks arising from the public sector have been eliminated, uncertainties have diminished, access to financing has become easier for our enterprises and investments have increased significantly.
This has boosted production and employment on the one hand and the competitiveness of our private sector, which is the main driver of our growth, on the other.
We realized high growth performance.
While developed economies grew by an average of 1.7 percent and emerging economies by 6.0 percent in the 2003-2017 period, Turkey achieved a growth rate of 5.7 percent in the same period.
We increased our Gross Domestic Product 3.7 times from USD 230 billion in 2002 to USD 851 billion in 2017.
According to purchasing power parity (PPP), while we were the 17th largest country in the world in 2002, we moved up four steps to become the 13th largest economy in the world.
In 2016, our national income according to PPP, which was 607.8 billion dollars in 2002, reached 2 trillion 8 billion TL.
In addition to the macroeconomic policies that we have implemented correctly and in a timely manner, thanks to the fiscal space we have created, the Turkish economy has positively differentiated itself from many countries in the global crisis thanks to our sound financial system.
After the global crisis, we grew by an average of 6.8 percent in the 2010-2017 period.
We have left behind many developing countries in the world.
Even in 2016, a year in which we experienced a treacherous coup attempt, we completed the year with a growth rate of 3.2 percent.
This performance is a reflection of the measures taken by the government, the strengthening of our economic structure through reforms and the confidence of our people in the government.
In 2017, we achieved a very high growth rate of 7.4 percent.
With this growth rate, Turkey ranked first among G-20 countries.
It was the second fastest growing country among OECD countries.
We also achieved significant improvements in the quality of growth.
While the share of investments and exports in the composition of growth has increased, the share of machinery-equipment investments, which signal an increase in productivity, has also been on the rise.
We have increased welfare.
We tripled our national income per capita from USD 3,500 in 2002 to USD 10,600 in 2017.
According to PPP, we increased our per capita income from $9,208 to $25,655.
In 2002, according to purchasing power parity, Turkey's per capita income was 36 percent of the EU average, and in 2017 it reached 62 percent of the EU average.
We reduced high inflation. While the 15-year average inflation rate before the AK Party rule was 70.0 percent, it was realized as 10.7 percent during the AK Party rule.
We reduced high inflation, which was a chronic problem before we came to power, from 29.7 percent in 2002 to single-digit figures.
However, due to external cyclical headwinds such as oil and exchange rate hikes in 2018, inflation is currently at 10.9 percent.
The fight against inflation will continue to be our main priority, and with the change in the conjuncture on the one hand and the measures we are taking on the other, we will reach single digit figures in inflation again.
In the 2002-2017 period, we strengthened public finance and the banking sector.
In this context, Treasury borrowing rates declined from 64 percent to around 8.5 percent.
As of May 2018, the weighted average funding rate was 13.5 percent.
We brought budget deficits under control.
We made a significant improvement in this area by reducing the central government budget deficit from 12 percent in 2002 to 1.5 percent in 2017.
In the same period, we reduced the total public debt stock from 74 percent to 28.3 percent.
In developing countries, the budget deficit is 4.4 percent and the debt stock ratio is 48.3 percent.
b. What We Will Do
It will resolutely maintain macroeconomic stability in the period leading up to 2023;
high, qualified and inclusive growth
we will continue to prioritize employment.
In this context, we will increase the share of high-tech-based domestic production and exports in the economy, and establish a quality employment infrastructure by turning the pressure of our dynamic population on the labor force into an opportunity.
We will continue to implement our growth strategy based on private sector-led productivity growth more vigorously.
In this context; Creating a better business environment by maintaining macroeconomic stability,
Raising the quality of our labor force,
Increasing our technology and innovation development capacity, further strengthening our physical infrastructure,
We will ensure that our institutional quality is improved.
To this end, we will ensure the digital transformation of our traditional sectors with high competitiveness and make these sectors more efficient with an innovation-based ecosystem.
We will increase the share of high value-added sectors in our economy and make our country more competitive.
We will reduce the dependence of our production and export structure on imports.
We will maintain stable growth by further increasing domestic savings and channeling them to productive areas, boosting private sector investments and improving labor productivity.
As in the last 16 years, maintaining macroeconomic and financial stability decisively will be the key to the success of our growth model.
We will never compromise on fiscal discipline, the most important anchor of our economy.
We will ensure that the share of public expenditures in total national income does not increase, thereby minimizing the exclusionary effect of the public sector on the private sector.
By paving the way for private sector investments, our public investments will increase production capacity and contribute to productivity-based growth dynamics.
We will pursue predictability, stability and inclusiveness in tax regulations.
We will continue the fight against informality and corruption and establish a healthier business environment.
A strong financial system is the driving force of our economy.
In the financial sector as a whole, our main priority is to encourage productive and employment-friendly investments by reducing the cost of funds.
Our banking sector will continue to maintain its stable structure.
We will take additional steps to ensure that the savings kept under the mattress enter the financial system.
We will further activate participation banking and encourage the strengthening of its resource structure.
We will deepen our capital markets with new instruments and enable our enterprises to use capital markets more actively.
The AK Party has a very successful record in the fight against inflation.
With the decisive policies we will implement, we will bring inflation back to single digits.
We will implement our economic policies in coordination by taking into account the key factors affecting pricing behavior and reduce structural and cyclical rigidities that cause inflation.
We will permanently reduce the current account deficit by making it no longer a structural problem.
With the growth model we will pursue, we will reduce the current account deficit by reducing dependence on imports.
In this way, we will reduce the need for external resources and increase the resilience of the economy.
We will expand our domestic and international trade networks.
We will enter new markets and increase our competitiveness in our existing markets.
We will improve and facilitate the business and investment environment to further support growth.
In this context, we will simplify the incentive legislation, take measures to eliminate unnecessary transaction costs, and make doing business more attractive by increasing predictability.
With political stability, predictability and investor-friendly policies, we will attract long-term foreign investment in high-tech and more productive areas.
These investments are expected to enable both technology transfer
We aim to create serious added value in our country with both employment increases.
We will increase R&D and innovation activities with a focus on the private sector.
We will increase added value by accelerating the commercialization and branding processes of the outputs to be obtained.
We will increase the efficiency and productivity of SMEs.
We will focus on improving the governance processes of our companies and solving efficiency and scale problems.
We will facilitate SMEs' access to finance and support their digital transformation.
We will increase labor force participation and qualified employment.
In the period ahead, we will maximize the quality of education to make the most of the opportunities offered by population dynamics.
The Republic of Turkey will reach its 100th anniversary with a strong industry that has completed its digital transformation and operates with high efficiency,
high value-added agricultural production and
with a globally exemplary services sector.
Over the past 16 years, the AK Party has proven its competence in managing the economy.
With the help of this considerable accumulation and experience, it is time to make much greater strides.
Balance of Payments
With the policies and measures we have implemented in recent years, we have made it an important priority to improve the quality of our production and exports.
In this framework, we will resolutely continue our policies to solve the structural problems underlying Turkey's high current account deficit during periods of rapid growth in the new period.
In the coming period, in order to achieve growth with a better balance of payments balance sheet, we aim to make more and qualified exports and permanently reduce the current account deficit by directing our resources to productive areas with programs to support domestic production.
a. What We Did
During our AK Party governments, we increased our exports of goods by 4.4 times and our exports of services by 3.1 times by ensuring market and product diversity in exports.
We diversified our export markets and accelerated the technological transformation in the composition of export products.
Our exports, which were 36.1 billion dollars in 2002, reached a record high of 157 billion dollars as of 2017.
Our imports rose from $51.6 billion to $233.8 billion.
We increased our exports of goods to 160 billion dollars as of April 2018.
We increased our exports of services from 14 billion dollars in 2002 to 44.7 billion dollars as of February 2018.
We achieved regional diversification in our exports by going beyond our traditional export markets.
We have become exporting to every corner of the world.
In 2002, 57 percent of our exports were to the EU, 4.7 percent to African countries and 9.5 percent to Near and Middle Eastern countries, while the shares of these regions in our total exports in 2017 were 47 percent, 7.4 percent and 22.5 percent, respectively.
We liberalized the foreign exchange regime by removing restrictive barriers to foreign trade.
We prevented our business community from unnecessary confrontation with judicial and administrative authorities.
We reduced bureaucracy for importers and exporters.
We increased the number of exporter companies
from 31,731 in 2002 to 71,265 as of 2017, nearly 2.3 times more.
In March 2017, we issued special stamped (green) passports to 7,477 exporters in order to pave the way for our exporters and enable them to reach every point of the world faster and more easily.
With the technological transformation, we increased the share of value-added products in our exports.
We reduced the share of low-tech exports in total manufacturing industry exports from 46.4 percent in 2002 to 33.3 percent in 2017.
On the other hand, we increased the share of medium-high and high-tech product exports in total manufacturing industry exports from 31 percent in 2002 to 38.4 percent in 2017.
We have turned our country into an investment, production and export base in the automotive sector. In
2017, we doubled our exports of motor vehicles from 3.3 billion dollars in 2002 to 24 billion dollars.
In addition, our exports of defense and aerospace industry products doubled 10-fold during this period, from USD 330 million to USD 3.4 billion.
We increased state aid for exports 15-fold.
We increased the amount of support for exports from 213 million TL in 2002 to 3.3 billion TL in 2018.
We increased our export credits.
We increased the total volume of credit and insurance provided by Eximbank from USD 5 billion in 2002 to USD 39.3 billion in 2017 in order to increase exporters' access to financing.
We established the Halal Accreditation Agency with the aim of becoming the leading country in the world halal market.
We have turned free zones into new production areas that are attractive for foreign investors and increase competitiveness for domestic investors.
We increased the trade volume of our free zones from USD 11.1 billion in 2002 to USD 20.4 billion in 2017, an increase of 85 percent.
We have effectively implemented trade policy instruments such as customs duty adjustments, anti-dumping and anti-subsidy measures and safeguard measures to eliminate unfair competition from imports to our domestic industry.
While the investments made abroad by resident companies in Turkey were 5.8 billion dollars in 2002, they increased more than 5 times and reached 31 billion dollars by the end of 2016. By
the end of April 2018, our gross foreign exchange reserves (including gold), which stood at USD 28.1 billion at the end of 2002, reached USD 112.8 billion.
We increased our gold reserves, which stood at USD 1 billion, to USD 25.2 billion.
b. What We Will Do
We created an active production, competition and entrepreneurial infrastructure during our governments.
In the coming period, we aim to further increase the added value of exports with new high-tech investments as well as the technological transformation of our existing facilities by utilizing this infrastructure,
We aim to improve the current account balance by reducing dependence on imports.
To this end, we will create a new vision with a competitive perspective and concentrate on strategic sectors in order to be at the top of global value chains.
In the 2018-2023 period, we will increase our exports of goods by an average annual increase of 10.1 percent to reach 300 billion dollars in 2023 and our imports of goods by an average annual increase of 7 percent to reach 360 billion dollars in 2023.
Thus, the ratio of our exports of goods to imports, which was 69.8 percent in 2018, will rise to 83 percent in 2023.
When we take service exports into account, we expect our total exports to reach 420 billion dollars in 2023.
We aim to increase the number of exporters from 71,265 to over 120,000.
We will increase the share of high-tech products in our exports from 4 percent to 15 percent.
We will continue our support programs for this transformation, from production to overseas marketing and branding, based more on design and R&D.
We will continue to stand by our exporters more strongly.
In this framework, we will establish export support offices in provinces with exports of less than 100 million dollars in order to turn young entrepreneurs into exporters and create new exporters.
In this context, we will identify potential companies, organize training programs and certify our companies.
We will increase the paid-in capital of Eximbank in order to increase our exporters' access to financing.
We will double Eximbank's total credit volume to USD 80 billion, thus providing additional financing opportunities for our exporters.
By increasing the total insurance and credit volume provided by Eximbank in this way, we will be able to finance 30 dollars of every 100 dollars of exports.
Within the scope of the Turkey Promotion Group, we will implement country and sector-specific promotional projects on an international scale for the promotion of our country.
We will increase the number of Turkish trade centers to 40.
We will support Turkish Gourmet Centers to be established in metropolitan cities abroad on a project basis.
We will ensure the establishment of foreign trade capital companies that will enable small-scale individual entrepreneurs such as handicraftsmen and craftsmen to actively market their products on platforms such as e-export and fairs.
We will continue to increase the support we provide for the membership of our exporters to e-commerce sites.
With new support mechanisms, we will increase the share of electronic commerce, including company-to-company exports, in our total exports to 25 percent.
We will increase the use of local currency in our foreign trade.
We will increase bilateral and multilateral trade relations.
We will build on and add to our existing trade agreements with the EU and other countries to strengthen our position in the global value chain.
In this context, we aim to maximize trade and economic relations with the European Union by improving the functioning of the Customs Union.
We aim to sign Trade and Economic Cooperation Agreements with 11 countries in order to establish high-level bilateral mechanisms with countries with trade and investment potential and to complete the legal infrastructure.
We aim to successfully complete the negotiations on 11 free trade agreements (FTAs) and 4 preferential trade agreements (PTAs), taking into account the sensitivities and needs of our country.
We will also launch FTA and TTA negotiations with new countries, particularly the UK.
Within the framework of the One Belt and One Road project, we will sign FTAs with countries located on both railway and maritime routes.
With this initiative, we will also support an increase in Turkey's export range, which currently averages 3,000 km.
In the next 5 years, we aim to sign Mutual Encouragement and Protection of Investments Agreements with at least 20 more countries.
Inflation and Monetary Policy
As AK Party, our basic principle in the economy is to keep inflation permanently low and in single digits.
In line with this principle, we will remain committed to achieving and maintaining price stability.
In the period ahead, policies to be implemented with the aim of maintaining financial stability and price stability will support growth and employment policies.
a. What We Did
As AK Party governments, we have paid attention to the harmonization of monetary policy with fiscal policy and considered the fight against inflation as one of the main foundations of economic stability.
We gradually reduced inflation during our rule.
Between 2002 and 2005, the CBRT implemented the implicit inflation regime, which is defined as the transition regime to explicit inflation targeting.
With the support of our decisive fiscal policies, the inflation rate and its volatility were reduced by 2005.
As of 2006, the CBRT adopted the inflation targeting regime.
We reduced high interest rates, one of the main determinants of cost inflation, in the environment of confidence we established with the decisive policies we implemented during our governments.
As a result of the environment of confidence we have created in the economy in line with the fiscal discipline we have established, interest rates on benchmark bonds, which were around 70 percent in 2002, have experienced a significant decline and since 2010, interest rates on benchmark bonds have hovered below 10 percent.
With the establishment of an environment of confidence and stability in the economy, the rapid decline in interest rates has increased the appetite for investment, and our investors and entrepreneurs prefer to invest in the real sector, create employment and produce more added value instead of earning rent through interest on capital.
With the end of the period of high interest rates and high credit costs that triggered cost inflation, the increase in production in many sectors has also reduced the pressure of supply deficit, one of the main drivers of inflation.
With the decline in interest rates, we significantly reduced the share of interest expenditures in the budget.
From 44.2 percent in 2002, we reduced the ratio of interest expenditures to total budget expenditures to 8.4 percent by the end of 2017.
In this period, we reduced the ratio of interest expenditures to GDP from 14.4 percent to 1.8 percent.
In the Central Government Budget, while 87 liras out of 100 liras of tax revenues in 2002 was spent on interest payments, we have reduced this amount to 10.6 liras in 2017.
The fiscal space we have gained from reducing interest expenditure is being used to transform the social security system,
education,
In areas that have a direct impact on our people, such as health, we used it to finance public infrastructure investments and social expenditures.
As a result of our determined fight against inflation through fiscal policies pursued in line with monetary policies and structural reforms, we reduced year-end CPI inflation from 29.7 percent in 2002 to single digits in 2004. By
the end of 2012, we achieved the lowest inflation rate of the last 44 years with 6.2 percent.
The upward trend in both credit costs and the alternative cost of investments for capital holders has dampened the appetite for investment and caused cost inflation to gain strength.
In this process, the depreciation of the local currencies of emerging economies due to global liquidity conditions and the upward trend in exchange rates as well as commodity prices were other factors that pushed up cost inflation through producer prices.
In order to reduce the exchange rate pass-through that affects cost inflation, Decree No. 32 on the Protection of the Value of the Turkish Currency was amended to stipulate that, with certain exceptions, firms without foreign currency income cannot borrow in foreign currency.
In addition, it has been stipulated that for those whose existing credit balance is less than USD 15 million at the time of utilization, the total amount of credit to be utilized together with the credit balance cannot exceed the total foreign exchange earnings of the last three years.
In order to manage the exchange rate risk of the corporate sector, the Central Bank started Turkish Lira-settled forward foreign exchange selling auctions.
Through these auctions, the foreign exchange demand of FX borrowers can be met in a predictable manner without affecting the Central Bank's reserves.
Another step taken by the CBRT to manage the exchange rate risk of the corporate sector is the regulation stipulating that the CBRT may request information from real and legal persons in order to fully determine the exchange rate risk.
Apart from foreign exchange and commodity prices, food prices were another important factor affecting inflation.
We established and activated the Food and Agricultural Product Markets Monitoring and Evaluation Committee, which aims to address the problems that sometimes lead to high as well as excessive volatility in food prices.
In this context, the causes of food price increases in all processes from production in the field to the consumer were analyzed, and some measures were put in place to address the factors causing excessive pricing, particularly loss rates and intermediary fees.
The remaining measures will be implemented in the second half of the year.
At this point, with the measures taken by the government, inflation is hovering at 10.9 percent as of April 2018.
b. What We Will Do
As the AK Party, our main priority in ensuring macroeconomic stability is to achieve and maintain price stability.
Monetary policy will be pursued in coordination with fiscal policy.
It will continue to be essential for the Central Bank to directly determine the monetary policy instruments it will use to achieve price stability.
The inflation targeting regime will be maintained.
Inflation targets will continue to be set by the government and the Central Bank for three-year periods.
The floating exchange rate regime will be maintained.
Foreign exchange markets will be closely monitored and stabilizing FX liquidity instruments will continue to be used when necessary.
In order to support price stability and limit the effects of possible exchange rate-driven volatilities on macro-financial stability, the use of Turkish lira in contracts will be encouraged, and necessary mechanisms and incentives will be created for firms to manage exchange rate risk more effectively.
Reserve accumulation will continue through export rediscount credits.
Our fiscal policy will be supportive in achieving price stability.
In order to contribute to the identification and elimination of structural factors causing inflation inertia, publicly administered prices and tax adjustments will be consistent with inflation forecasts and targets.
In the coming period, we will implement measures to reduce the cost pressure caused by interest rates.
In this context, we will strengthen capital markets and reduce the share of the banking sector in the total financial system.
We will develop new financing methods such as venture capital funds to finance start-ups with limited access to the banking system.
We will improve the regulatory framework in the banking system to reduce the operational costs of the banking sector and make it work more efficiently.
We will increase the share of Participation Banking in the banking system.
We will take measures to facilitate the access of our businesses, especially SMEs, to financing and reduce financing costs.
We will deepen markets by diversifying financial instruments.
With these measures, we will create an economic structure in harmony with macro fundamentals, mainly by increasing predictability within confidence and stability.
The decisions of the Food and Agricultural Product Markets Monitoring and Evaluation Committee will continue to be rapidly implemented.
In this context, we will strengthen the registration system for the supply chain from production to the end consumer.
We will continue legal and institutional arrangements to expand licensed warehousing.
We will support farm-to-consumer cold chain investments to minimize wastage rates that cause financial losses in the fresh fruit and vegetable supply chain and improve the overall quality of logistics processes.
We will ensure full compliance with international standards for the packaging, transportation to retail outlets and display of agricultural products at retail outlets.
We will complete the legal work for more efficient operation and modernization of wholesale markets, one of the critical points of the supply chain.
We will increase support for fodder crop production.
Financial Markets and Financial Services
In the 16-year period, our fundamental reforms in financial markets and our policies to maintain financial stability have been instrumental in maintaining our economic success.
In the new period, we aim to create a financial market that will meet the needs of the real economy and finance growth, with a high depth and diversity of financial instruments, effectively supervised, innovative and more transparent.
a. What We Did
As AK Party, we ensured the sound functioning of the banking system.
To this end, we ensured that state-owned banks were restructured to ensure that they operate according to the requirements of modern banking and international competition.
Affected by the 2001 crisis, we have made arrangements to strengthen the capital structures of private banks, resolve non-performing loans, reduce their foreign currency open positions and encourage their mergers and acquisitions in order to restore them to a healthier structure.
As a result of our reforms, we strengthened our banking system and increased its contribution to the economy and growth.
The ratio of assets to GDP in the banking sector reached 105 percent as of end-2017, up from 59 percent in 2002.
During this period, the sector's assets rose from TL 213 billion to TL 3.4 trillion as of March 2018, while loans disbursed increased from TL 49 billion to TL 2.2 trillion.
The sector's shareholders' equity increased from TL 25.7 billion to TL 359.1 billion in the same period.
We enacted a Banking Law in line with international standards.
In the sector where we have achieved full compliance with these standards, our banks continue their operations in accordance with the globally recognized principles and guidelines called Basel principles.
Within the framework of these principles, our banks are already in a better position than the European Union banks.
With the right policies, regulations, supervision and practices, our banks maintain their resilience, and in the last 16 years, there has been no systemic banking crisis or significant bank bankruptcy or liquidation in our banking sector that could cause public losses.
The capital structure of the banking sector has become strong and high quality.
As of March 2018, the capital adequacy ratio of our banks was 16.7 percent, twice the minimum level of 8 percent in international regulations.
During our governments, the banking sector returned to its original function.
Our banks continue to support companies and our economy with their strong and high quality capital structure.
Between 2002 and 2017, when the banking system started to fund the real sector and investments more, the share of loans in GDP rose from 16.5 percent to 69.6 percent.
We aimed to turn Istanbul into an international financial center.
Accordingly, we put into effect the Istanbul International Finance Center (IFC) Strategy and Action Plan.
We established the Financial Stability Committee and the Istanbul Arbitration Center.
We put resources at the service of production and profitability instead of capital rent. The
resources in the banking system, which were lent to the capitalist sector before 2002, started to be lent predominantly to companies, small and medium-sized firms and households during the period of our governments.
In this context, the share of Treasury securities in banks' assets declined from 40.5 percent to 12.1 percent.
We increased loans to SMEs at high rates.
Loans extended to SMEs increased from TL 77 billion in 2007 to TL 521 billion as of February 2018, while loans extended to corporate and commercial companies increased from TL 114 billion in the same period to TL 1 trillion 105 billion.
While in 2007, the number of SMEs utilizing loans from our banks was approximately 1.4 million, this number increased to approximately 3.3 million in February 2018.
The share of micro SMEs among enterprises benefiting from SME loans increased from 68 percent in 2007 to 78 percent in February 2018.
With the Treasury-Backed Credit Guarantee Scheme, we increased firms' access to finance.
As of April 23, 2018, we provided 218 billion TL guarantee for 432 thousand loan transactions.
During the period of our governments, our banking sector has also provided great support to our citizens in acquiring housing.
Housing loans, which were 460 million TL in 2002, reached 193 billion TL.
The number of families who have become homeowners by utilizing housing loans has exceeded 2.5 million people.
Housing loans accounted for 39 percent of retail loans, which reached TL 493 billion as of February 2018.
Interest rates on housing loans also declined from 53 percent to 14 percent.
We improved the use of non-cash instruments in the financial system.
We have introduced the possibility of a new payment plan for credit card debts for which a notice has been served, enforcement proceedings have been initiated, or which are classified as loans under follow-up by the bank.
By enacting the Law on Bank Cards and Credit Cards, we ensured the effective functioning of the card market. In
2017, we launched the QR Code Check Application.
The bad check rate, which was 3.4 percent in December 2016, dropped to 1.9 percent as of March 2018.
We ensured that the interest-free finance sector made a significant breakthrough during our governments.
We launched two new state-owned participation banks.
The share of participation banking increased from 2.4 percent in 2005 to 4.9 percent in February 2018.
We put in place regulations for participation insurance that will operate according to interest-free finance principles.
We provided tax support for interest-free financing.
In this context, we took steps to develop the market for "lease certificates" (Sukuk), which have made significant progress in recent years, and regulated the tax legislation.
We have developed new borrowing instruments such as gold bonds and gold-based lease certificates for our citizens in order to bring the gold kept under the mattress into the economy.
We made a regulation on Individual Participation Investors (Angel Investors).
To date, we have granted individual participation investor licenses to 451 people.
We launched the Individual Participation Capital System.
With the system, we aim to eliminate SMEs' problems in accessing financing, to provide a more professional and institutionalized structure for enterprises, and to increase investments and employment.
In 2003, we introduced the private pension system (PPS).
In line with the goal of increasing the inclusiveness of the PPS, we started to provide a 25 percent direct state contribution to the contributions deposited in the system in 2013.
We have undertaken important reforms in the insurance sector.
Within this scope, we legalized the Agricultural Insurance Pool.
In 2006, we launched the state-subsidized agricultural insurance program, which provides 50 percent premium support to citizens engaged in agriculture and animal husbandry.
In 2007, we enacted a new Insurance Law.
As of 2008, we provided the opportunity for those involved in traffic accidents to quickly issue an accident report. In
2011, we made arrangements for the Social Security Institution to cover the treatment expenses arising from traffic accidents.
In 2012, we enacted the Catastrophe Insurance Law.
As of April 2017, we introduced the maximum premium practice to ensure that premiums for compulsory traffic insurance are offered at reasonable levels.
With the 2017 amendment, we enabled the use of surety insurances, which are the equivalent of bank letters of guarantee, in public tenders.
We developed and deepened capital markets.
In this context, we enacted the New Capital Markets Law.
We launched the Turkish Electronic Fund Distribution Platform (TEFAS), which is fully automated and integrated with the Takasbank-Central Registry Agency system.
The free float rate in capital markets, which was 24.9 percent in 2003, reached 40 percent in 2017.
The number of publicly traded companies on the stock exchange increased from 298 in 2003 to 399 in 2017.
In 2017, the market capitalization of publicly traded companies reached USD 233.4 billion, up from USD 34.4 billion in 2002.
Between 2002 and 2017, the total amount of funds provided to the market through primary and secondary public offerings reached approximately USD 54 billion.
We are launching "crowdfunding" as a new generation financing tool.
In this context, as a new generation financing tool, we enable a number of people who would not have a significant impact on their own to fund an initiative with small amounts.
We introduced the possibility for the institutions in charge of urban transformation activities to issue real estate certificates to enable the transfer of rights.
By encouraging the transformation of infrastructure companies operating in Turkey into infrastructure real estate investment trusts, we enabled infrastructure investments to be made through capital markets.
We have created the infrastructure for product specialization exchanges where agricultural products will be traded.
b. What We Will Do
In the coming period, we will implement innovative policies in financial markets and financial services with a dynamic perspective.
We will attach importance to increasing the depth of financial markets and support publicly traded companies.
We will increase the effectiveness of the financial sector in financing the real sector and the diversity of financial products.
In this context, we will ensure greater utilization of capital markets in financing the real sector.
We will primarily use the Credit Guarantee Fund to support investment and exports.
We will increase the effectiveness of the Turkey Wealth Fund in financial markets.
We will reduce costs on the financial services sector.
We will accelerate our Istanbul International Finance Center (IFC) Project in the upcoming period and create an effective and strong financial market structure.
Within the scope of the IFC, we will continue with tax regulations that will increase Turkey's competitiveness in financial markets and enable more financial transactions to be carried out in Turkey.
We will make the Istanbul Arbitration Center more effective.
We will strengthen consumer and investor rights in the financial sector through transparent, fair and incentivizing practices within the framework of corporate governance principles.
We will develop development banking, which provides long-term financing for investments.
To this end, we will restructure the Development Bank and transform it into a technological venture bank.
We will contribute to economic development by bringing the Real Estate Bank back to the sector.
We will support R&D activities in financial markets.
We will strengthen payment systems in line with technological developments and emerging needs.
We will promote financial literacy, which contributes to increasing domestic savings.
We will broaden the investor base and diversify markets.
In order to reach more international investors, we will expand our efforts to other countries by developing our efforts to realize a debt transaction in the Chinese bond market for the first time in 2018.
We will further develop the insurance sector.
In this context, we will prepare and implement the Insurance and Private Pension Sectors Oversight and Supervision Policy Document in order to make insurance and private pension activities more transparent and predictable and to enlighten the public.
We will ensure the widespread use of compulsory earthquake insurance.
We will extend TCIP's coverage to other disaster risks such as floods and storms.
We will ensure that receivables insurance, an insurance product that provides coverage against the collection risk of companies' receivables, becomes widespread among SMEs in Turkey.
We will increase international cooperation in the interest-free finance sector.
We will make our country a regional center in this field.
We will prepare an interest-free finance policy document with a long-term and holistic approach in order to develop the interest-free finance system in a faster and healthier way in our country and contribute to our country's vision of becoming an international financial center.
We will ensure the widespread use of risk-sharing-based financing models in our participation banks.
We will ensure the establishment of a crowdfunding company that will provide SME financing jointly by participation finance companies.
We will increase the share of interest-free financial instruments in public investments, especially in infrastructure.
We will develop the financial technology (Fintech) ecosystem for participation banks and spread financial services to the grassroots.
We will continue the Treasury-backed credit guarantee scheme with a focus on investment and exports.
We will establish the Single Treasury Corporate Account.
With this account, we will increase the efficiency of public cash management by allowing the Treasury to monitor public cash resources in a single account and preventing public cash resources from sitting idle in bank accounts.
We will diversify and actively launch product specialization exchanges where agricultural products will be traded.
Fiscal Discipline
As AK Party, our economic achievements are based on the special importance we attach to financial stability and fiscal discipline.
While disciplining our budget, we made the best use of the budget revenues, which we increased based on healthy resources in line with macroeconomic stability and growth, and ensured their return as services to our people.
During our governments, we have demonstrated that fiscal discipline, strong growth performance and disinflation can be realized simultaneously.
In the period ahead, we aim to create a predictable economic environment that will minimize uncertainties for investors and entrepreneurs by not compromising fiscal discipline.
a. What We Did
While supporting macroeconomic stability with the fiscal discipline we have achieved during our period in power,
On the other hand, we have created an economic environment that will increase production, investment and therefore tax revenues.
Education with the financial space we have grown in this framework,
health
and infrastructure investments, we supported economic growth and social development with more cost-effective and high-quality investments.
We reduced deficits through fiscal discipline.
Since 2002, budget deficits and the public sector borrowing requirement have fallen rapidly as a result of our strict adherence to fiscal discipline.
During this period, the budget deficit declined gradually from 11.3 percent of GDP to 1.5 percent at end-2017.
Similarly, the general government deficit decreased from 10.5 percent in 2002 to 1.8 percent in 2017.
In this framework, these deficit figures are well below the 3 percent deficit level set by the Maastricht criteria, which is a standard upper limit for EU countries.
In 16 years, we have achieved a significant improvement in our budget and removed from the agenda the issue of the sustainability of the debt stock, which was perceived as a serious risk to public finances in the past.
From 72.1 percent of GDP in 2002, the EU-defined general government debt stock declined to 28.3 percent at end-2017.
While many countries resorted to IMF resources and received support from central banks in the global crisis environment, we paid all debts to the IMF and ensured the fulfillment of obligations to the CBRT and public banks without putting pressure on the markets.
As the public sector's borrowing requirement decreased, we paved the way for banks to channel more resources into the economy.
We significantly reduced the share of interest expenditures in the budget.
In the 2002-2017 period, we reduced the ratio of interest expenditures to GDP from 14.4 percent to 1.8 percent.
We increased the share of general budget taxes transferred to local governments.
b. What We Will Do
In the new period, we will increase efficiency in public expenditures and revenues.
We will review existing spending programs and eliminate unproductive expenditures to maintain fiscal discipline and create more fiscal space.
We will implement our public revenue policy in a way that is more effective and supportive of growth on a wider tax base.
We will allocate the fiscal space to priority investments in economic and social areas.
We will use budget resources to meet the needs and demands of our citizens in the best way possible.
We will ensure fair access and distribution of social assistance.
For this purpose, we will complete the integration of the databases of public institutions providing services in this field.
We will take into account the economic, social and environmental impacts of agricultural subsidies.
We will increase the effectiveness of supports by simplifying them, and ensure the sustainable use of natural resources and food security.
We will update the procedures and principles to be followed in the acquisition and use of vehicles and service buildings in the public sector.
We will prevent waste in the use of vehicles and public buildings.
We will not allow the construction of public service buildings except in cases of extreme necessity.
We will enable the purchase of public housing by the civil servants who live in it.
We will ensure that health expenditures are realized on a more rational basis.
We will promote the rational use of medicines and improve preventive and preventive health services.
We will update the Public Financial Management and Control Law.
We will ensure that the structure and functioning of public financial management is more effective and standardized.
We will finalize work on program-based performance budgeting, which will improve the efficiency of the use of public resources, facilitate monitoring and reporting, and enable public institutions to focus on public services.
We will update the public procurement legislation.
We will update the law by taking into account international best practices in order to enable public services to be performed more efficiently and expeditiously, to support domestic production more, and to solve problems encountered in practice.
We will increase local governments' own revenues.
Basically, we will ensure that public revenues are obtained from healthy and continuous sources through modern methods.
We will comprehensively reform the Income Tax Law, Corporate Tax Law and Tax Procedure Law.
We will facilitate access to finance by supporting the movable pledge system from a tax perspective.
We will accelerate efforts to transform our tax offices into service places that our citizens can access more easily.
By increasing the services we provide within the scope of the Interactive Tax Office, we will further reduce the time our taxpayers take to fulfill their tax obligations.
We will reduce the costs of tax compliance by establishing a national Taxpayer Services Center where transactions are carried out through a remote call system.
At the newly established Risk Analysis Center, we will prevent unfair competition by more effectively combating those who issue and use false and misleading documents.
We will enable our Value Added Tax payers to use a simpler VAT system based on revenue.
We will carry out the works and transactions of our citizens regarding Treasury immovables electronically.
We are restructuring our citizens' debts to the public sector.
Until March 31, 2018, we are restructuring tax and premium receivables as well as traffic fines; fines accrued in past elections; fines related to military service and population, RTÜK fines, bridge highway fines, and penalty payments that must be paid to the state.
We are making an arrangement regarding stocks for previous years.
We will bring 20 thousand Treasury immovables with shares into the economy by selling them directly to their shareholders.
In order to eliminate property conflicts, we will transfer 10 thousand Treasury immovable properties to municipalities to be sold to the rightful owners.
Within the scope of the evaluation and sale of the lands that have lost their forest status, known as 2/B in the public, the remaining 100 thousand 2/B properties will be sold to 160 thousand users.
By expanding the portfolio of Treasury immovable properties created for sale, lease, easement rights and investment incentives, 50 thousand Treasury immovable properties will be offered to our citizens through advertisements on the website.
Reducing Informality
Creating a formalized economic structure has been one of the main policies of the AK Party.
A registered structure prevents unfair competition and is of great importance in terms of maximizing our economic potential.
Economic stability by reducing informality,
income distribution
and quality improvement in many aspects such as employment;
increase the level of productivity and competitiveness in the economy,
we will also ensure that public revenues increase.
With this approach, we adopt as a fundamental principle the encouragement of practices that will ensure efficiency in the economy and increase registered work, employment and voluntary taxation.
a. What We Did
During our governments, we have taken important steps to reduce the informal economy.
We reduced the rate of informal employment from 54.1 percent to 33.6 percent.
We supported formalization with tax cuts and employment incentives.
We abolished the practice known as tax rebate for wage earners and introduced the minimum subsistence allowance.
We made significant reductions in tax rates, particularly in income, corporate and value-added taxes.
In order to increase employment and encourage registered employment, we have implemented regulations such as 5-point premium reduction, incentives for youth and women employment, and incentives for disabled employment.
We have restructured tax debts to stand by our citizens in their difficult times.
With the electronic invoice application, we reduced the tax compliance costs of taxpayers and accelerated the transition to the formal economy.
We increased the quality and number of monitoring and inspection activities.
We introduced markers in fuel products and cash registers at fuel pumps, and established a banderolized monitoring system for alcoholic beverages and cigarettes.
We established a Service for Combating Unregistered Employment in all provincial directorates of the SSI.
We established the Revenue Administration.
We established the Presidency of the Tax Inspection Board to carry out tax inspections from a single source, to standardize the inspection process and to achieve specialization.
We ensured specialization and division of labor in tax audit.
We increased the effectiveness of inspection services.
We launched the VDK Taxpayer Portal, which enables interaction with taxpayers.
We have moved almost all tax transactions to the electronic environment.
Our taxpayers no longer wait in front of tax offices for many transactions from the declaration stage to the payment process.
With the electronic ledger application, we ensured a standard in the presentation of financial data and reduced the compliance costs of our taxpayers arising from keeping books on paper.
We exempted the deliveries and services of our taxpayers subject to simple procedure from VAT.
We have introduced income or corporate tax exemption for manufacturers' earnings from the sale of products manufactured in free zones.
b. What We Will Do
In the period ahead, we will continue to reduce the size of the informal economy and more decisively implement policies to increase the formalization of employment.
In this context, we will implement a new program to combat informality.
We will increase the effectiveness of supervision in the social security system and the formal employment of foreign labor.
We will encourage people to stay in the workforce longer.
We will avoid regulations that cause informality in tax legislation and grow the formal economy.
We will implement practices to increase tax compliance levels of taxpayers.
In this context, we will create a tax legislation that is few, easy to understand and that will boost economic performance.
In the labor market, we will continue to make the necessary tax arrangements for businesses to create additional employment and to prevent unregistered employment.
We will establish a new risk analysis center that will use all the opportunities of technology in order to combat tax losses and evasion, increase voluntary tax compliance and efficiency in tax collection.
We will make arrangements to prevent tax losses and evasion in electronic commerce.
We will strengthen the audit capacity on informality.
We will raise awareness in all segments of society through educational and inclusive methods.
We will continue to modernize and renovate customs gates and customs.
We will reduce informal employment from 33.6 percent to 28 percent.
Privatization
As AK Party, we aim for the state to focus on basic public services and infrastructure investments that cannot be undertaken by the private sector, and for the economy to be guided by market mechanisms by ending its role as an operator.
a. What We Did
From 1985 to the end of 2002, the total amount of privatization practices completed between 1985 and the end of 2002 was USD 8.1 billion, while during the period of our governments, we privatized a total of USD 61.2 billion with transparent methods and higher value formation.
Through privatizations, we have contributed to the formation of a more competitive economic structure while generating revenue for the public sector.
In addition to the revenues generated through privatizations, we opened monopolistic markets to competition, developed capital market instruments and brought idle real estate into the economy.
Privatization also contributed to economic development and growth.
New investments in many privatized enterprises have created new jobs for employees.
Through privatization, the state has withdrawn from many key sectors.
We have completely withdrawn from many sectors, including petrochemicals, iron and steel, oil refining, alcohol-tobacco and electricity distribution, while reducing the state's share in sectors such as electricity generation, telecommunications, banking-insurance, air transportation, marina and port operations.
In public enterprises not under the scope of privatization, we have initiated the process of preparing and implementing strategic plans in order to embed and disseminate the strategic management approach.
b. What We Will Do
In the new period, we will focus on ensuring that the services that citizens receive from the public sector in their daily lives are provided by the private sector as much as possible in a more efficient and high quality manner.
We will continue privatization implementations within a program determined within the framework of macroeconomic policies and long-term sectoral priorities.
We will emphasize the use of public offering method in privatization practices, and with the aim of deepening and developing capital markets, we will ensure that public capital companies go public and operate in accordance with transparency and corporate governance principles.
We will continue privatization practices and the privatization of state-owned goods and services production units with different projects to be developed to create new values.
We will continue our efforts to ensure that idle public immovables are included in the scope and program of privatization in order to bring them into the economy and to implement zoning applications where necessary.
We will implement SEE governance legislation that provides flexible management in a competitive environment for state-owned enterprises that will remain in the public sector.
Savings
As AK Party, we attach special importance to increasing domestic savings in order to finance high and stable growth in a secure and less costly structure.
Thanks to our savings policies, which we intensively emphasized especially after the global crisis, our domestic savings have reached 24.5 percent of GDP.
a. What We Did
Especially in the post-global crisis period, we increased our public savings with the policies we implemented towards fiscal discipline.
We ensured that our private sector savings remained at a certain level.
Our program to increase domestic savings has boosted household savings.
The share of household savings in disposable income rose to 13.5 percent in 2015.
In addition to our tax policies to increase savings, we have implemented policies to reduce waste.
We ensured the development of complementary insurance.
We increased savings through private pensions.
As a result of the arrangements we made in the private pension system, we increased the fund size to approximately 80 billion TL, including the state contribution.
The number of participants in the private pension system increased from approximately 3.1 million at the beginning of 2013 to 6.9 million by the end of 2017, while the fund size in the system increased from approximately TL 20.4 billion to TL 68.1 billion in the same period.
By the end of 2017, approximately TL 11.6 billion in state contributions were paid to participants.
We introduced automatic enrollment in the PPS, enabling people entering the labor force to be automatically enrolled in the PPS.
According to the automatic enrollment practice that entered into force, we have taken an important step for the expansion of the system by including all citizens who work and have not reached the age of 45.
Since January 2017, the number of employees in the system has reached approximately 3.5 million.
We introduced macroprudential measures to prevent excessive acceleration in domestic credit volume, which suppresses savings.
In this context, we reorganized the relationship between credit card limits and income.
We also aimed to redirect savings to productive areas and change the loan composition in favor of commercial loans.
In this context, we reduced the general provision ratios for export credits and SME credits and included Eximbank export credits within the scope of credit risk mitigation techniques in insurance policies.
b. What We Will Do
In the period ahead, we aim to transform domestic savings, which we see as one of the important dynamics of economic growth, into productive investments and to create a healthy growth structure through these investments financed by domestic savings in addition to direct international capital.
As our economy grows at high rates, we will increase domestic savings, reduce the current account deficit and make our economy more resilient.
In addition to the monetary and fiscal policies we will implement, we will raise domestic savings rates in line with our growth and current account deficit targets by providing incentives to households and firms.
We will continue to increase public savings.
We will ensure efficiency in public revenues and expenditures.
We will diversify incentives for our citizens to utilize their savings kept under the pillow in the financial system.
We will provide stronger protection to small investors by encouraging households to trade on the stock exchange.
In line with international obligations, we will identify luxury goods and/or consumption goods with high import intensity and impose deterrent taxation.
We will fight against waste in areas where surplus consumption behaviors are high.
We will ensure that the second-hand market for consumer goods, particularly consumer durables, spreads throughout the economy.
We will organize training and promotional activities for various segments to raise awareness on financial issues in Turkey.
As a result of all these policies, we aim to increase the ratio of domestic savings to national income to 30 percent in 2023.
Investments and Business Environment
During the period of our governments, we have achieved significant success in production and exports with the importance we attach to investments and improving the business environment.
In the coming period, not only in terms of growth and employment, but also in terms of regional development and the development of our human resources,
We will continue effective and efficient investments without slowing down in order to increase the welfare and quality of life of our citizens.
We will continue to pave the way for and encourage private sector investments through our policies to improve the investment climate, which we carry out simultaneously with public investments.
We will realize our innovative policies to improve the competitiveness of our country by establishing the necessary human and physical infrastructure to further improve the business environment.
a. What We Did
While increasing the speed and quality of the services we provide to our citizens with the public investments we have made during our governments, we also support private sector investments with complementary infrastructure investments.
As a government, we have significantly increased the resources allocated for public investments.
By using these resources effectively, we completed and commissioned many projects in a short time.
In 2017 prices, while Turkey made 60 billion liras of public investment in 2002, we more than doubled this level under our governments and increased it to 128 billion liras in 2017. In
the 15-year period, we made a total of 1.3 trillion liras of public investment in 2017 prices.
Private sector investments have also increased significantly under our governments.
In 2017 prices, the amount invested by the private sector more than quadrupled from 182 billion liras in 2002 to 801 billion liras in 2017.
In the same period, the private sector invested a total of 7.9 trillion liras in 2017 prices.
Therefore, in 2017 prices, the total level of investment for the same period nearly quadrupled from 242 billion liras in 2002 to 929 billion liras in 2017.
A total of 9.2 trillion liras were invested over the 15-year period.
In the context of public investments during our government, we have both completed the ongoing projects from previous years and developed new projects and started their construction.
We shortened the completion time of public investments.
While in 2002, the completion time of public investments was 8.5 years, in 2017 we reduced this time to 3.8 years.
We have significantly increased the efficiency of the public investment program and provided it with a rational structure.
We have realized significant infrastructure investments through Public-Private Partnership (PPP) models.
We financed public investments with innovative methods in addition to budgetary resources.
In the 1986-2002 period, 67 projects with a total contract value of USD 11.9 billion and a total investment amount of USD 11.4 billion were signed under PPP models, while 158 projects with a total contract value of USD 122.9 billion and a total investment amount of USD 50.2 billion were signed in the 2003-2017 period.
We completed and commissioned the Istanbul Strait Road Tube Crossing (Eurasia Tunnel), Yavuz Sultan Selim Bridge and Odayeri-Paşaköy Section of the Northern Marmara Motorway, Osmangazi Bridge and two sections of the Gebze-Orhangazi-İzmir Motorway.
We commissioned Kayseri, Yozgat, Mersin, Isparta and Adana City Hospitals.
We have signed the implementation contracts for 21 city hospitals with PPP model.
10 city hospital projects are in the tender stage.
We established Investment Support Offices.
Within the Development Agencies, we established Investment Support Offices (ISOs) as a mechanism to provide investors with sound information and facilitate their bureaucratic procedures.
With innovative practices such as KÖYDES, SODES, BELDES, SUKAP, Attraction Centers, GAP Action Plan, we have achieved significant local and regional success.
By making our investment incentive system dynamic, we developed new incentives to increase the quality and value of investments.
Between 2002 and 2017, we continuously improved our incentives for private sector investments.
While in 2002, we issued 2,655 investment incentive certificates worth 11.7 billion TL with a projected employment of 135 thousand people, in 2017 we broke a record and issued 7,457 incentive certificates worth 178.9 billion TL with a projected employment of 227 thousand people.
In 2002, our investment incentive system provided only VAT Exemption, Customs Duty exemption and Investment allowance.
In 2009, we made a radical change in our incentive system and started to implement a new investment incentive system prepared by taking into account regional and sectoral priorities in addition to large investments, and we took the steps that laid the foundations of the current system.
In 2012, in line with macroeconomic, technological, strategic and regional priorities, we introduced tax supports such as VAT exemption, customs duty exemption, VAT refund, tax reduction, financial supports such as interest support, employment supports such as insurance premium employee and employer share support, income tax withholding incentive to reduce the burden on employers, and investment site allocation to reduce the initial costs of investment.
We increased support for investments that will enable the transition from medium-tech to high-tech production structure in our industry and accelerate regional development.
We developed the Project-Based Incentive System, popularly known as the "super incentive", which we introduced in 2016 to encourage investments that will reduce foreign dependency and increase our competitiveness.
Within the scope of the Attraction Centers Program, we provided special incentives for certain investments in 23 relatively underdeveloped provinces.
We attracted more foreign direct investment to our country through efforts to improve the investment climate.
While international direct investments amounted to USD 14 billion in the 1975-2001 period, they increased cumulatively by approximately 14 times in the 2002-2017 period, reaching USD 194.3 billion.
Until 2002, Turkey attracted an average of 518 million dollars of foreign capital, and today it has achieved the position of being a leading country in its region, attracting an average of 12.1 billion dollars of direct investment per year since 2002.
Another important point that proves that Turkey is a safe haven for international investors is the number of companies with foreign capital.
In 2002, there were approximately 5 thousand companies with foreign capital in Turkey, while today this number has increased 12-fold to more than 60 thousand.
We have made many arrangements to improve the investment environment for the private sector.
In this context, we made it possible to establish a company in one day.
We abolished the minimum capital required for foreign direct investment.
We switched from a permission system to an information system.
We abolished the distinction between foreign and domestic investments in pre-incorporation procedures.
In order to support our entrepreneurs and investors and to increase consumer welfare, we have significantly reduced tax rates during our governments.
In this context, we reduced the corporate tax rate from 33 percent to 20 percent.
(It is temporarily at 22 percent.)
We allowed taxpayers who pay their taxes regularly to deduct 5 percent of their taxes calculated on their annual income or corporate tax returns.
We completely abolished VAT on feed and fertilizer to encourage agricultural production.
We reduced the VAT rate to 1 percent for the acquisition of many machinery and equipment through financial leasing, reducing investment costs and financial burdens.
We made periodic tax cuts in white goods, furniture, automobiles and housing.
We significantly reduced stamp duty and fees.
We abolished the fee application in book certification procedures.
We also incentivized energy savings with our tax cuts.
In this context, we provided the opportunity to deduct expenditures for thermal insulation and energy saving from commercial income and real estate capital will.
By differentiating the SCT rate, we encouraged the production of hybrid vehicles in Turkey and their low energy consumption.
With the regulation we have made, we receive lower SCT from electric vehicles.
We ensured that legal processes facilitate the business environment.
We enacted the Code of Civil Procedure, which includes regulations to speed up the judicial process, to popularize arbitration, which is of great importance for investors, and to establish an arbitration culture in our country.
We have determined the principles regarding work permits to be issued to foreigners who will work in Turkey.
We have designated the Ministry of Labor and Social Security as the sole authorized body for these permits.
We continued our efforts to simplify and reduce bureaucracy in sectoral permits.
We carried out Standard Cost Model (SMM) studies to simplify all permit and license processes and to measure and reduce the costs of permit processes.
Within the scope of investment incentives, we made Treasury real estate available to investors and supported small industrial estates and organized industrial zones.
We supported the shipbuilding industry, which contributes to the increase in exports, creates employment potential, supports the subsidiary industry and contributes to the defense needs of our country, and we increased the contract duration to 49 years.
In the mergers of SMEs holding an industrial registry certificate and engaged in production activities, corporate tax can be reduced by up to 75 percent for three years.
We provided the opportunity to defer the debts of tax-compliant taxpayers for up to 60 months with a lower interest rate.
We have largely completed the legal and institutional structure of the intellectual property system.
We have taken the necessary measures to ensure effective enforcement of criminal and civil sanctions in the intellectual property system.
We established the Intellectual and Industrial Property Rights Coordination Board to formulate strategies for intellectual property rights and to ensure effective implementation by improving coordination and cooperation among institutions.
We prepared and implemented the National Intellectual Property Rights Strategy and Action Plan.
In order to ensure that more users benefit from the intellectual property system, we implement a wide range of support tools, including marketing and promotion support in foreign markets.
b. What We Will Do
In order to achieve high and stable growth and employment rates in the new period, we will continue to address public and private sector investments with a holistic perspective that complements each other.
We will use public investments as an effective tool to reduce regional development disparities and capitalize on regional development potential.
We will prioritize projects under regional action plans such as GAP, DAP, KOP and DOKAP.
We will accelerate private sector investments.
In this context, we will provide services in a wide range of areas from investment subject to site selection, from company establishment to incentive applications through our One-Stop Offices that we have launched in the provinces.
We will maintain the rational structure of the investment program.
We will ensure that projects are implemented without delay.
We will focus on channeling funds to infrastructure investments, especially those made through PPPs, through capital markets, and prioritize increasing the diversity of financial instruments and channeling funds through institutional investors.
The first phase of the Istanbul New Airport, which is being built through PPP, will be commissioned in the last quarter of 2018, and the remaining sections of the Gebze-Orhangazi-Izmir Motorway and the Kurtköy-Akyazı and Kınalı-Odayeri sections of the Northern Marmara Motorway will be commissioned in 2019.
The construction of the 3-storey Grand Istanbul Tunnel, Canal Istanbul and Izmir Bay Crossing projects will start in 2018.
Among the ongoing city hospital projects, we will realize Bilkent, Elazığ, Eskişehir and Manisa City Hospitals in 2018.
City Hospitals, Mersin, Çandarlı, Filyos Port, Ankara-Niğde Motorway, Menemen-Aliağa-Çandarlı Motorway, Kınalı -Tekirdağ-Çanakkale (Çanakkale-Malkara Section) Motorway, Ankara-Kırıkkale-Delice Motorway, We will complete major projects such as Aydın-Denizli-Burdur Motorway, Mersin-Erdemli-Silifke Motorway, Ankara-Sivrihisar Motorway, Burdur-Antalya-A-lanya Motorway, West Antalya Airport, Alaçatı Airport.
We will expand the application area of the PPP model to include areas such as drinking water, wastewater, solid waste and irrigation.
We will provide state aids for modernization investments based on efficiency that will increase the competitiveness of the existing installed capacity and for investments that will ensure digital transformation and ensure security of supply.
We will solve the import dependency of our country, especially our manufacturing industry, and create new capacities with high technology intensity based on R&D.
Within this framework, we will create our own global brands within the scope of the Project Based Incentive System we have put into practice.
We will establish new generation specialized free zones and turn our free zones, which offer significant advantages for domestic and foreign investors, into trade and employment centers.
We will facilitate the process by ensuring that transactions such as applications, permits and incentive certificates for government supports are carried out electronically.
On the other hand, we will simplify different incentive programs and increase their effectiveness.
In the upcoming period, we will observe the principles of cost-effectiveness, accountability, transparency, predictability, flexibility, avoidance of idle capacity and efficiency in the incentives for private investments.
We will prioritize investment areas that increase employment, high added value and exports.
We will improve the infrastructure of geographic information systems.
We will ensure that the inventory of land suitable for investment in Turkey is made available to investors electronically.
In Industrial Zones and Organized Industrial Zones, we will make legislative arrangements to solve the problems encountered in the implementation process, especially regarding the allocation of investment space.
We will improve the legal processes and infrastructure for the business and investment environment in Turkey.
We will make pre-trial dispute resolution procedures more effective in the judicial and administrative judiciary.
We will build adequate human and institutional capacity in the public sector, particularly in the judiciary, customs and law enforcement services.
We will improve the service capacity of technology transfer and innovation centers to enable businesses to benefit more effectively from the intellectual property rights system and supports.
We will remove the obstacles arising from tax regulations in the direct sale of small farmers' own products to consumers.
In order to increase the domestic production of medicinal and aromatic plants and ornamental plants, which are used extensively in many sectors, and to reduce imports, we will offer 10 million square meters of Treasury real estate for lease to encourage the cultivation of these species.
Employment
As AK Party, we adopt the basic approach of providing qualified jobs to the increasing labor force due to our young population and employment-friendly growth.
We consider employment not only as an economic indicator, but also as a fundamental area of reflection of economic growth on social welfare.
We aim to permanently reduce unemployment to low rates by creating an effectively functioning labor market with more and more qualified job opportunities.
a. What We Did
As AK Party, we have achieved significant success in the field of employment in the last 16 years and increased labor force participation, especially for women.
With the stable policies we have implemented, we have provided employment opportunities for about 1 million people every year after the global crisis.
Especially with the impact of the global crisis, while the unemployment rate increased in many countries and new job opportunities could not be created, our country was able to achieve large increases in employment with a very successful performance.
According to OECD data, between 2007 and 2017, we increased our country's employment by 7.5 million people.
In the same period, employment increased by 7 million 190 thousand in the EU-28.
In this period, Turkey alone created more jobs than the EU as a whole.
We have made significant progress in women and youth employment.
According to OECD data, Turkey is the country that increased its female labor force the most between 2007 and 2017.
In the last 10 years, Turkey has increased its female labor force by 72 percent with 4 million 244 thousand people, raising the female labor force participation rate to 33.6 percent in 2017.
Between 2007 and 2017, women's employment in Turkey increased by 63 percent with approximately 3.5 million people, becoming the country with the highest increase in women's employment after the USA among OECD countries and ranking first among European countries.
The energy and knowledge of our youth has been turned into an opportunity.
Turkey was the country with the highest increase in youth employment between 2007 and 2017.
During this period, while the youth labor force decreased by 4.5 million in European Union countries, Turkey managed to increase the number of young labor force by approximately 1 million, ranking first among OECD member countries.
Between 2007 and 2017, Turkey increased its youth labor force participation rate by 6.7 points, leaving countries such as the USA, Germany, Japan and the UK behind.
Since 2014, 350 thousand young people have joined the labor force, while our youth labor force participation rate increased by 2.4 points to 43.2 percent.
We have implemented many regulations in employment.
We enacted the Labor Law, which includes basic regulations.
We prepared and implemented the National Employment Strategy.
We implemented the Lifelong Learning Strategy and the Action Plan for Strengthening the Relationship between Employment and Vocational Training.
We rapidly increased employment with our active and passive labor policies.
We increased the number of private sector job placements through İŞKUR from 24 thousand 482 in 2002 to 1 million 53 thousand in 2017 with a 43-fold increase, reaching a record level.
Since 2002, we have placed a total of 6 million 259 thousand citizens in jobs through İŞKUR, 5 million 627 thousand in the private sector and 632 thousand in the public sector.
We have enriched the content of our active labor force programs in line with the needs of the age and the professions of the future, and increased the amount of resources we allocate in this field.
Since 2009, we have provided vocational training to 2 million 642 thousand people.
We increased the number of private employment agencies from 23 in 2004 to 396.
We have employed approximately 4 thousand job and vocational counselors.
Since 2002, through İŞKUR, we have ensured the employment of approximately 1 million 723 thousand women, 1 million 769 thousand young people and 372 thousand disabled people.
Since 2007, 1 million 633 thousand people have benefited from the Community Benefit Work Programs, which we have organized in order to prevent our job-seeking citizens from being disconnected from working life and to provide temporary income support to our unemployed.
Since 2009, 1 million 357 thousand people have benefited from the vocational training courses we have organized to combat the problem of unemployment, and we have ensured that they have a valid profession in the labor market.
Since 2009, 947 thousand people have benefited from on-the-job training programs where participants gain work experience.
Today, 73 percent of our citizens who participated in our on-the-job training programs are employed.
We increased the number of beneficiaries of entrepreneurship trainings from 6,600 in 2009 to 94,000 in 2017.
We provided entrepreneurship trainings to 327,000 people in 9 years.
We provided grants to disabled people to start their own businesses.
We increased the entrepreneurial support we provide up to 36 thousand TL to disabled people to 50 thousand TL in 2018.
Through İŞKUR, we opened employment doors for 367 thousand 360 disabled citizens.
We have also given 36 million TL grants to disabled people who want to start a business since 2014.
We strengthened the link between social assistance and employment.
We identified citizens who were able to work among those receiving social assistance and placed 75 thousand people in jobs between 2011 and 2017.
In this period, we ensured that 154 thousand social assistance beneficiaries benefited from active labor force programs.
We increased the scope and support amount of our employment incentives with a sector and target group-oriented approach.
We offered premium support to employers who employ women, young people, those with vocational training certificates, and those who participate in on-the-job training programs.
With the "Additional Employment Incentive", we provided tax and premium support for employers who provide additional employment to the average number of insured between 2018-2020.
In this context, we offer more advantageous opportunities to the manufacturing and IT sectors, women, young people and the disabled in terms of support amount and utilization periods.
With the "1 From You 1 From Me Incentive", we offered a very advantageous support to employers operating in the manufacturing sector and having a master's certificate.
In this context, we supported the employment of both tradesmen with 1-3 employees and young people by covering the wage, insurance premium and tax burden over the minimum wage in one month intervals.
With the "National Employment Mobilization" we implemented in 2017, we covered all premiums and taxes of the insured employed by our employers over the minimum wage.
Since 2002, we have effectively implemented our passive employment programs such as unemployment insurance, short-time working allowance, wage guarantee fund, job loss compensation and part-time work.
Between 2002 and 2017, we made 22.9 billion payments within the scope of unemployment allowance.
In 2016, we prevented our women from being disconnected from working life by implementing part-time work.
b. What We Will Do
In line with our employment targets in the new period, we will continue our policies to increase employment in different fields.
By 2023, we will increase the employment rate to 53 percent and the labor force participation rate of women to 41 percent.
We will ensure the development of labor market databases in order to determine more effective policies to support the employment of groups requiring special policies in labor markets.
We will reduce the mismatch between the skills of workers and job seekers and the skills needed by the world of work.
We will develop practices and projects to increase the employment of women, youth, disabled people, ex-convicts, substance addicts, social assistance beneficiaries and other groups requiring special policies.
We will reduce unemployment by supporting youth employment.
In this context, we will diversify programs to increase work experience and improve the career guidance system.
We will identify the reasons why young people who are neither in employment nor in education do not participate in education and the labor force, and we will implement programs to integrate those who cannot continue their education into the labor market.
We will simplify employer obligations in terms of internship programs.
We will change the perception of "risk-taking" and entrepreneurship by taking into account the impact of cultural factors on entrepreneurship.
In order to prepare our youth for the future in a stronger way, we will increase the number of young people who benefit by designing our courses and programs with new approaches in these areas, which are seen as the professions of the future, such as cyber security, cloud computing, game development specialist and coding in accordance with the requirements of the digital world.
We will support projects with commercialization potential in these areas.
We will increase women's labor force participation rate and employment.
Taking into account the strong relationship between women's labor force participation and education, we will continue to encourage women to become more active at all levels of education.
Considering the labor force needs of the region and provinces in terms of women's employment, we will effectively continue practices such as training, internships and on-the-job training.
We will ensure that care services are widespread and accessible to all.
To support women's cooperatives and ensure their sustainability, we will develop structures to support women's cooperatives in financing, management, business development, design and marketing in cooperation with specialized NGOs, public and private sectors.
We will support and strengthen rural women's entrepreneurship and increase investment opportunities for rural women in order to reduce seasonal labor migration and ensure their participation in productive income-generating workforce from unpaid family labor.
We will provide technical support to local institutions to increase their capacity to develop programs and projects for women's employment.
We will increase the labor force participation rate and employment of people with disabilities by raising their vocational skill levels.
We will investigate the causes of long-term unemployment and implement innovative programs to accelerate the return to work.
We will increase the number of qualified labor force with vocational qualification certificates to 1 million.
We will make this document Turkey's national brand.
We will carry out our activities with more cooperation with our stakeholders, more intensive field work, stronger communication and more effective promotion in order to reach the +2 employment target with the National Employment Mobilization we launched.
We will implement a system that will ensure the matching of labor supply and demand in the shortest time and in the most accurate way in line with technological developments.
We will establish the Electronic Public Employment Portal (EKİP) to facilitate access to public employment and reduce bureaucratic burden.
In the next five years, we will create at least 1 million jobs per year, totaling over 5 million additional jobs.
We will ensure that 2 million 250 thousand citizens benefit from our active labor market programs.
With our active labor market policies, we will increase our country's growth and additional employment by providing our young and dynamic population with the skills needed by a highly qualified workforce.
The duration of on-the-job training programs will be 6 months for workplaces in the IT and manufacturing sectors and in dangerous and very dangerous occupations, and 3 months for other workplaces and occupations.
We will simplify the legislation on incentives and introduce a software for employers to inquire which incentives they can benefit from.
We will evaluate the contribution of employment incentives to additional employment and design incentives to prioritize the employment of groups requiring special policies and sectoral needs.
While the incentive period for each insured person is 12 months; we will benefit our young people, women and disabled citizens for 18 months.
With the "Additional Employment Incentive", we provide tax and premium support for employers who provide additional employment to the average number of insured between 2018-2020.
In this context, we will offer more advantageous opportunities to the manufacturing and IT sectors, women, youth and the disabled in terms of support amount and benefit periods.
With the "1 From You 1 From Me Incentive", we offer a very advantageous support to employers who operate in the manufacturing sector and have a master certificate.
In this context, we will support both our tradesmen with 1-3 employees and the employment of young people by covering the wage, insurance premium and tax burden over the minimum wage in one month intervals.
For additional employment, we will provide premium support for manufacturing and informatics over the premium-based earnings and for other sectors over the lower limit of the premium-based earnings.
We will provide premium, tax and wage support for employers operating in the manufacturing sector if they employ additional young people.
We will reorganize unemployment insurance to provide more social protection.
We will direct social assistance beneficiaries to open jobs and ensure their participation in active labor force programs.
We will make labor market legislation and institutions fit and ready for digital transformation.
We will create a holistic and integrated management system covering the public, private sector, universities, educational institutions and NGOs.
We will train the workforce to adapt to digital transformation.
We will equip the workforce with soft skills that facilitate inter-occupational mobility.
We will determine the impact of economic and technological developments on labor markets.
We will define and measure the skills that the labor market will need in the future.
Entrepreneurship and SMEs
As AK Party, we always stand by the freedom of enterprise and free entrepreneurs as per our founding philosophy.
Our Party's growth strategy is based on entrepreneurship and a dynamic structure led by the private sector.
Our main policy is to strengthen the entrepreneurship culture in the favorable environment created by the public sector and to create an entrepreneur-friendly ecosystem.
We see supporting fast-growing or high-growth start-ups and innovative SMEs as an important requirement for stable economic growth and social development.
On the one hand, we will support businesses of all sizes all over Turkey, and on the other hand, we will realize mega projects worthy of Turkey's future vision.
We will continue to support all entrepreneurs of different scales by standing by our SMEs and tradesmen.
a. What We Did
As AK Party, we have taken important steps to develop entrepreneurship and SMEs.
We provide up to 150 thousand TL of support to prospective entrepreneurs to start their own businesses, with or without repayment.
To date, we have provided 1.2 billion TL support to approximately 48 thousand entrepreneurs.
In this context, the support rate provided to our women entrepreneurs is 80 percent in the 1st and 2nd Regions and 90 percent in other regions.
We have implemented programs to remove barriers to women's entrepreneurship and improve women's role in economic life.
In this framework, we have made support payments amounting to 485.7 million TL to 19,550 women entrepreneurs since 2012.
We have increased the number of beneficiaries of applied entrepreneurship trainings in our country from 6 thousand to over 1 million.
We supported young entrepreneurs.
We provide support of up to 50 thousand TL through KOSGEB to our SMEs employing women who have not started their own business but want to exist in economic life as "employees" and young people under the age of 30 (thirty).
By making regulations on SMEs, we implemented important innovations from the definition of SMEs to SME support systems.
For the first time, we prepared and put into effect the SME Strategy and Action Plan.
While 14.5 million TL support was provided to 4 thousand SMEs in the 1990-2002 period through KOSGEB, we have provided 3.4 billion TL support to approximately 320 thousand SMEs with a 234-fold increase since 2003.
In addition, between 2003 and 2018, we provided 507 thousand SMEs with 19.8 billion TL of zero-interest loans, totaling 1.9 billion TL of loan interest support.
We paved the way for SMEs in the service and trade sectors to benefit from KOSGEB supports.
Thus, we have increased KOSGEB's target audience 8 times.
With the San-Tez Program, a support mechanism that aims to help SMEs acquire the habit of solving their problems in cooperation by using the know-how produced at universities, we have allocated 246 million TL to 1,029 projects to date. The
number of enterprises registered in the Industrial Registry System has increased 18 times from 7 thousand in 2002 to 136 thousand today.
With the 6.3 billion TL credit support we provided, we enabled approximately 473 thousand people to work under healthier conditions in 95 thousand workplaces in a total of 472 Industrial Sites put into service until the end of 2017. The
number of enterprises registered in the KOSGEB database, which was 4 thousand in 2002, has exceeded 1 million 380 thousand today.
With the Production Reform package, we removed the obstacles in front of our entrepreneurs and industrialists.
We have completed the infrastructure of 180 Organized Industrial Zones (OIZs) to date, in recognition of the importance of appropriate investment location and clustering for investors.
Approximately 1 million 795 thousand people are employed in the 53 thousand parcels that have started production in OIZs, and the number of people employed in the existing OIZs has increased by approximately 1 million 380 thousand people compared to the end of 2002.
We have launched technical colleges and vocational high schools that provide vocational and technical education within OIZs.
We opened 35 technical colleges and 12 vocational high schools.
We launched a workplace training program for university students to spend one semester (7+1) in the industry in order to equip new graduates with the qualifications required by the industry.
We initiated training programs at the Continuing Education Centers of universities in order to increase the qualifications of current employees in our industry.
We increased the number of Technology Development Zones from 5 in 2002 to 77 and the number of provinces with Technology Development Zones from 3 to 51.
We established specialized technoparks in food and health in Mersin and Izmir.
We increased the number of enterprises operating in Technology Development Zones from 50 to 4,916.
We provided employment for approximately 48 thousand people in these enterprises.
We increased the number of projects carried out in enterprises from 100 to 8,316.
We realized exports of 3.4 billion dollars in technology-based products and sales of approximately 82.3 billion TL in today's values.
During the AK Party period, we enacted the Law on Tradesmen and Craftsmen Professional Organizations.
We created an information system for our tradesmen and artisans and prepared and implemented a strategy document for the first time in the history of the Republic.
We have extended significant amounts of loans with favorable conditions to artisans and craftsmen through Halk Bank.
Within the scope of this practice, while the loan interest rates charged to craftsmen were 47 percent in 2002, we gradually reduced these rates to 4 percent in 2003, the lowest loan interest rates in the history of the Republic.
We increased the subsidy rate from 20 percent to 50-100 percent and rearranged the loan upper limits in favor of our tradesmen.
While 63 thousand tradesmen benefited from this practice in 2002, this number increased to 459 thousand tradesmen by the end of March 2018.
We increased the budget allocation for artisan loans from 50 million TL in 2002 to 1.5 billion TL in 2018.
If our tradesmen engaged in urban passenger transportation or commercial freight transportation activities renew the vehicles they use in these activities until June 30, 2019, we do not charge special consumption tax for the newly purchased vehicles.
We made TOKİ facilities available for the construction of small industrial estates for craftsmen and artisans.
We supported the efforts to keep the Ahi culture alive and established the tradesmen's Ahi Fund.
We implemented the Tradesmen and Craftsmen Support System (ESDES) project.
We convened a council of artisans and craftsmen.
We introduced "one from me and one from you" social premium support for artisans and craftsmen.
We have improved the legal environment for cooperatives.
We made the credit guarantee service provided through credit and surety cooperatives more effective.
b. What We Will Do
Our main objective is to increase the competitiveness of our SMEs and enable them to contribute more to our economic growth.
In the coming period, we will realize an innovative, high value-added production structure that ranks high in the global value chain through our entrepreneurs.
We will improve the international connectivity of the entrepreneurship ecosystem.
In this context, we will encourage foreign early-stage funds to open offices in Turkey or become partners of domestic funds, and foreign institutional investors to invest in funds in Turkey.
We will increase the number and effectiveness of centers such as business development, incubation and accelerators.
We will effectively operate the upper funds for early-stage entrepreneurship, where the lack of financing is felt the most.
We will develop new support mechanisms to improve the role of women in economic life.
We will continue to support the financing of SMEs.
We will implement regulations that will encourage SMEs to realize their investments through internal financing and accelerate the accumulation of equity for this purpose.
We will expand capital market instruments for SMEs, including private sector bond offerings and SME exchanges.
We will support various innovative financing models such as venture capital, angel investment and venture capital to support innovative SMEs.
We will give importance to the institutionalization of SMEs.
For this purpose, we will establish support programs for the development of their capacities, especially human resources.
We will provide personnel support to SMEs engaged in R&D for the commercialization of technological products.
We will support companies' activities related to industrial design, production preparation, production process, market launch and after-sales services.
We will encourage internet-based activities of SMEs and encourage SMEs to increase their digitalization skills.
By 2023, we aim to establish 50 new OIZs and increase employment in all OIZs to 2.5 million.
Within the scope of our Green OIZ Framework Development Project for Turkey, we will save approximately 1 million MWh of energy and 11.7 million m3 of water annually in pilot OIZs, and reduce carbon dioxide emissions by 356 thousand tons, solid/hazardous wastes by 71 thousand tons and chemical consumption by 15 thousand tons.
By 2023, we aim to increase the total number of Technology Development Zones to 105, including 5 specialized and 10 in Organized Industrial Zones.
We aim to increase the total number of employees in Technology Development Zones to 60 thousand and the number of registered patents to 2 thousand in 2023.
Industrial sites that create noise in the city center and do not comply with urban aesthetics will be relocated to a suitable area outside the city within the scope of urban transformation with a modern, holistic, smoothly functioning infrastructure and management approach with all its social spaces, and works will be carried out using local materials with environmentally friendly approaches.
We will renew the strategic plan of tradesmen and artisans and prepare a new strategy document and action plan to cover the years 2018-2023.
We will implement the Sector Analyses for Tradesmen and Craftsmen Project in order to contribute to the formation of the necessary infrastructure for tradesmen and craftsmen to increase their competitiveness and adapt to changing economic and social conditions.
Through zoning regulations, we will increase the diversity of workplaces, especially in urban centers.
We completely erase the debts of the past years regarding the premiums paid as a legal obligation by our tradesmen who retired and opened a new workplace.
We ensure that tradesmen with Bağ-Kur premium debts also receive health services.
We will enable our artisans to develop and grow their businesses with new finance models.
We will launch a support program to enable our tradesmen and small businesses to benefit from e-commerce.
We will implement a marketing and branding project for artisans and craftsmen.
We will restructure the Tradesmen and Craftsmen Information System (ESBIS) in line with the requirements of the day in order to harmonize it with new technological infrastructures and to increase the number of services provided electronically.
We will finalize and put into practice a geographical information system that will identify the geographical locations and clusters of tradesmen and artisans, serve as a guide before they start their business, and create a map of the country's tradesmen and artisans.
Trade
As AK Party, we see the establishment of an efficient and smoothly functioning commercial environment as critical for our country to gain a larger share of global prosperity and wealth.
With this understanding, we aim to make our country one of the world's important trade centers where customs services and trade are the easiest and safest in the coming period with innovative approaches and practices.
a. What We Did
During our 16 years in power, we have implemented regulations and practices that facilitate trade.
We put the new Turkish Commercial Code into force.
We facilitated the establishment of companies.
We launched the Central Registration System (MERSİS), one of the largest databases in Turkey.
We increased the trust in checks by launching the QR code check application.
We have initiated efforts to certify the companies that meet the security criteria for our exports and imports and to make them internationally recognized and reliable.
We regulated electronic commerce.
We eliminated the bureaucracy in exports through electronic commerce.
We have introduced the possibility of VAT refunds.
We have joined the EU transit system.
We ensured the transportation of export goods from Kayseri to Berlin on the same system.
In order to make the transactions of traders easier and faster, we have put new customs administrations into operation with a focus on growth and increasing exports.
We have made our foreign traders, who are the trust gates of fast and easy trade, who do business properly and contribute to the growth of our country, to carry out all customs procedures in their own facilities.
We have electronically completed all customs procedures and shortened the processing times.
We collected the information and documents required by all our institutions at customs (120 documents from 22 institutions) electronically in a single window system.
We implemented a customer-oriented logistics information system.
We have stepped up our fight against smugglers, especially drug traffickers.
We have set a record number of apprehensions.
In order to ensure the security of our country, prevent smuggling, and protect our people and the environment, we have introduced state-of-the-art equipment in our country.
We have provided consumers with more effective protection.
We prevented consumers from being deceived through advertising.
We carried out our inspections with the principle of zero tolerance against unsafe products and protected our children from the harm of dangerous chemicals.
b. What We Will Do
In the period ahead, we will continue to implement practices to facilitate trade and establish an environment of trust.
We will continue market surveillance and supervision and market regulation.
We will implement a trade facilitation strategy.
By developing branding and institutionalization capacity in trade services, we will enable enterprises to open up more, especially to the markets of emerging peripheral countries.
We will effectively launch the Retail Information System (PERBIS) in order to carry out the necessary applications and other transactions in the opening, operation and closure of retail businesses and to ensure information sharing.
We will integrate agricultural and financial markets through a specialized commodity exchange.
We will increase the number of licensed warehouses, storage capacity and product diversity.
We will regulate the vegetable and fruit trade and implement the new market law.
We will ensure the development of electronic commerce services to open entrepreneurs to foreign markets.
We will unify all laboratory procedures at a single point in customs controls.
We will save time and cost for our obliged parties. We will expand our technical equipment capacity.
We will open new customs gates to increase our trade and friendship with our neighbors.
We will renovate our customs gates with the build-operate-transfer model.
With a focus on development, we will launch the one-stop period at customs.
Tourism
During the period of our governments, we have ensured the strengthening of our tourism sector at the international level and a significant increase in the number of tourists and revenues by utilizing our natural and historical values as well as our rich historical heritage and unique geographical location.
In the period ahead, we aim for Turkish tourism to be a leading sector in increasing employment and regional development, and to become one of the world's major centers of attraction for individual and mass tourism.
a. What We Did
During our 16 years in power, we have ensured that our country has become one of the leading countries in the world by utilizing its tourism potential in a very good way with a new vision.
Turkey, which ranked 17th in the world in terms of the number of tourist arrivals in 2002, rose to 10th place in 2016.
As of 2016, Turkey ranked 17th in tourism revenues.
While the ratio of the number of tourists coming to Turkey to the number of international tourists was 1.9 percent in 2002, we increased it to 2.8 percent in 2017.
While the number of foreign visitors to our country was 13.3 million people and tourism revenue was 12.4 billion dollars in 2002, it broke a record by reaching 36.8 million people and 34.3 billion dollars in 2014.
Although the number of tourists and tourism revenues declined slightly due to the developments in our region, particularly in Syria, the number of foreign visitors in 2017 was 32.4 million people and tourism revenues amounted to 26.3 billion dollars.
In 2017, we increased the number of beds certified by the Ministry of Culture and Tourism from 396 thousand in 2002 to 935 thousand.
At the investment stage, there is a capacity of 263 thousand beds.
Including 496 thousand beds in municipally certified facilities, we are bringing the total number of beds to 1 million 694 thousand.
We increased the number of travel agencies by about 2 times.
In 2002, the number of 4,344 travel agencies operating in the sector reached 9,985 as of May 2018.
We have implemented many regulations and practices for the development of tourism infrastructure.
We have ensured that businesses certified by the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, whose primary function is accommodation, are considered exporters if they provide 1 million dollars or more in foreign currency from abroad.
We implemented the Turkey Tourism Strategy 2023 and Action Plan. We implemented the Law on Tourist Guidance Profession.
We launched the certification system to determine the skill level required for qualified employment in the tourism sector and to ensure the standardization of vocational training.
We prepared and implemented the Eastern Black Sea Tourism Master Plan, which focuses on the development of highland tourism, in order to create a new tour route by combining the existing road tracks behind the coast.
We launched the transformation program for the development of health tourism.
In this context, we aimed to strengthen the service quality in the fields of medical tourism, thermal tourism and advanced age-disability tourism and to utilize Turkey's potential in this field more.
We provided tourism companies serving in the field of health tourism with the opportunity to benefit from market entry, overseas promotion, overseas unit, certification, consultancy, trade delegation and procurement delegation supports.
We have supported tourism through various incentives.
We reduced the VAT rate on hotel and restaurant services from 18 percent to 8 percent.
We improved the allocation conditions for thermal and winter tourism investments.
We ensured that a portion of the electricity consumed by facilities and enterprises that have received a Tourism Investment Certificate or Tourism Management Certificate from the Ministry of Culture and Tourism and that have Green Star certificates will be covered from the budget.
We ensured that tourism accommodation investments to be made in Culture and Tourism Protection and Development Zones, which can benefit from regional incentives, can benefit from 5th region incentives.
We continue to provide fuel support to travel agencies to support tourism.
In 2017, we provided 565 million TL flight support to 86 travel agencies.
In the 2002-2017 period, we provided 1.7 billion TL support to local government projects such as roads, water, electricity, wastewater treatment plants, solid waste disposal facilities, landscaping and infrastructure development for tourism and sustainable tourism.
We brought 10 million visitors together with the Spirit of Çanakkale in the land of the fallen.
In order to convey the spirit of Çanakkale, which is the symbol of our national unity and solidarity, to future generations in the best way possible, we are restoring all our martyrdoms and battlefields and turning them into open-air museums.
We established the Çanakkale Wars Gallipoli Historical Site Presidency for the effective coordination of regulations and activities in this area.
b. What We Will Do
In the new period, we will be among the top five countries in terms of the number of tourists and tourism revenues.
With the policies we will implement more actively, we will make our country an important destination and an international brand in the international market by 2023.
In this context, we are targeting 50 million tourists.
In tourism, we will strengthen existing markets and focus on emerging markets such as China, India, Japan, South Korea, Indonesia and Turkic Republics.
We will revive the historical Silk Road.
We will improve the infrastructure and superstructure, and accelerate promotion and marketing efforts to bring the destinations on the road route into tourism.
We will adopt a destination-based approach to promotion.
In order to increase our country's international competitiveness, market share and brand value in the field of tourism, we will develop and implement promotional strategies to create a strong Turkish brand in the international arena.
In addition to sea, sand and sun tourism, we will prioritize and develop tourism types such as cultural tourism, health and thermal tourism, winter tourism, golf tourism, sea tourism, eco-tourism and plateau tourism, congress and fair tourism.
We will create tourism development regions with culture, thermal and nature themes, especially Phrygia, Cappadocia, Hittite, Troy, Aphrodisias, Söğüt, Lakes Region and GAP tourism regions.
We will increase the number of tourists coming within the scope of health tourism from 250 thousand to 2 million people by 2023.
We will increase the income from thermal health tourism to 1 billion dollars by 2023.
Within the scope of health tourism, we will develop applications of the Central Physician Appointment System (MHRS) in different foreign languages.
We will establish communication channels to strengthen the continuity and belonging of patients treated in our country within the scope of health tourism.
We will create support mechanisms for thermal tourism facilities to operate in cooperation with hospitals and physical therapy and rehabilitation centers.
We will identify special destinations where tourists over 65 years of age can have a vacation and where there will be elements that will appeal to their needs and wishes.
We will increase the number of Elderly Care and Rehabilitation Centers where elderly tourists can spend their time seasonally.
We will create 6 thematic tourism routes: winter corridor, faith tourism corridor, silk road tourism corridor, olive corridor, Western Black Sea coastal corridor and plateau corridor.
We care about the planned development of nature-themed eco-tourism.
We will contribute to reducing imbalances between eco-tourism regions and other regions and halting migration in rural areas.
By bringing 500 Green Star Certified accommodation facilities to our country, we will popularize environmentally friendly tourism facilities for sustainable tourism.
We will increase the number of environmentally friendly blue flags on beaches, marine tourism facilities and marine tourism vehicles, especially 500 beaches.
STRATEGIC SECTORS AND INNOVATIVE PRODUCTION
In the coming period, we believe that countries that prepare an environment for qualified people, science and technology, and the commercialization of knowledge, and rapidly transform into a knowledge-based economy will be ahead of other countries and will have a much greater say in the world of the future.
As AK Party, we aim to ensure that our country becomes a country that produces knowledge and transforms it into added value, and thus becomes one of the high-income countries.
In line with this goal, the breakthroughs we will make in science, technology and innovation in strategic sectors constitute the core of our development strategy.
In this context, we will create a production structure consisting of better-equipped, more innovative and entrepreneurial people and enterprises that produce knowledge and transform it into high added value.
During our 16 years in power, we have attached great importance to the formation of R&D infrastructures in the field of science, technology and innovation in our country and to the training of qualified researchers.
We continued to invest in our country's future and potential with a long-term perspective and increased our expenditures in this area.
We aim to increase innovative and high value-added production in our country and take our development process to a new stage by effectively utilizing this infrastructure in the new period.
We will transfer the capacity we have developed in the field of science and technology to strategic sectors where we need innovative and high technology, particularly in the manufacturing industry, energy, transportation and agriculture, and create an economic infrastructure based on domestic technological capability in these areas.
By encouraging the widespread and effective use of information and communication technologies (ICT), we will support the formation of a strong ecosystem in this field, increase the added value in the production of domestic ICT technologies and ensure greater use of ICT technologies in production.
We will accelerate digitalization in strategic sectors, especially in the manufacturing industry, and strengthen the technological development capability in these sectors by creating, processing and commercializing big data and developing the software and hardware industry.
Science, Technology and R&D
As AK Party, we are aware of the need to have a say in the field of science and technology in order to have a qualified human capital and realize high-speed development.
With this approach, we have paid special attention to developing our research and development infrastructure for science and technological activities and training qualified manpower in this field.
In the coming period, we plan to rapidly reach the position of a country that transforms knowledge into commercial value and exports high-tech products by creating an effectively functioning R&D and innovation ecosystem based on human resources with high scientific qualifications.
a. What We Did
During our ruling period, we launched an important science, technology and innovation breakthrough in our country.
During this period of rapid increase in our national income, we almost doubled the share of R&D expenditures in GDP, from 0.51 percent to 0.94 percent between 2002 and 2016.
We increased the share of the private sector in total R&D expenditures from 28 percent in 2002 to 54 percent in 2016.
We increased R&D expenditures by approximately 14 times from TL 1.8 billion in 2002 to TL 24.6 billion in 2016. We increased
the number of full-time equivalent R&D personnel from 28,964 in 2002 to 136,953 in 2016, and the number of full-time equivalent R&D personnel in the private sector from 5,918 in the same period to 72,579.In 2004
, we established the Turkish Research Area (TARAL) and increased the resources allocated to R&D and innovation activities.
With the Law on Supporting Research and Development Activities enacted in 2008, we provided comprehensive incentives to private sector R&D centers. In
2014, we enacted the Law on Supporting Research Infrastructures.
With the law, we have taken another important step towards improving cooperation between universities and the private sector.
We envisaged that the research infrastructures we established would operate and be managed on a performance basis, that research results would be commercialized, and that qualified researchers would be employed more flexibly in these centers.
We aimed to accelerate innovative inventions by further supporting these accredited centers with guided projects.
Launched in 2008, we have increased the number of R&D and design centers to 1,100 in the last decade.
By employing more than 50 thousand qualified R&D and Design employees, we have enabled our country to develop high-tech products in every field with more than 28 thousand R&D projects.
We supported R&D and scientific studies with various scholarship programs.
With the Basic Sciences Scholarship Program, we provide scholarship support of up to 2 thousand TL to students.
Within the scope of scientist support, we have increased the number of scientists we have supported 9-fold since 2002 to more than 15 thousand.
We have established a communication network to keep the relations of our postgraduate educated citizens abroad with our country alive.
We created a database and catalog for Turkish researchers abroad.
We implemented the Design Strategy Document and Action Plan (2014-2016).
We established the Turkish Design Advisory Council to work on determining design strategies and policies and increasing the competitiveness of Turkish designs in the international arena.
We supported design centers, designer companies and design offices as well as design projects of companies.
We achieved record increases in trademark, design and patent applications.
In the last 16 years, the number of trademark applications increased from 36 thousand to 121 thousand, design applications from 20 thousand to 47 thousand and patent applications from 2 thousand to 20 thousand.
The share of domestic patent applications in total patent applications increased from 22 percent in 2002 to 45 percent in 2017.
We are building a Science Base in Antarctica.
In this context, we accelerated the Antarctic Project by signing the Madrid Environmental Protocol.
We organized two expeditions to Antarctica with 40 scientists.
We started to implement our National Polar Science Program.
We made the call for a 1 million Euro Polar Research Program.
b. What We Will Do
In the coming period, we will increase the resources allocated to R&D and innovation, shift the weight of support to product-based commercialization and launch the "National Technology Move" by encouraging the transformation of expenditures in this field into added value.
The essence of our National Technology Move will be the national technological capabilities that we will develop with our qualified manpower, domestic financial resources and technological infrastructure, and the high-tech products that we will produce in the fields that our country needs, especially in the defense industry, based on these capabilities.
We will restructure R&D and innovation.
In this framework, we will strengthen coordination among institutions providing support for increasing R&D and innovation activities and increase the effectiveness of support.
We will strengthen collaborations between universities, industry and public institutions to support the transformation of R&D activities into products and services.
We will encourage the training of researchers in basic sciences and increase the quality and quantity of research activities in this field.
We will improve the quantity and quality of the researcher workforce, especially those with doctoral degrees.
"We will establish an industrial doctorate program to provide the human resources with doctorate degrees that the private sector needs in high technology fields.
We will strengthen our human resources in R&D by making special arrangements to encourage Turkish researchers abroad to work in research infrastructures in Turkey.
We will continue to support private sector R&D and Design Centers to improve their quality and ensure their sustainability.
We will design our R&D support programs with the flexibility to respond immediately to global technological developments.
We will focus on high-tech sectors and products in the design of R&D support programs and incentive practices.
We will differentiate our R&D support according to sector priority, company scale, company development speed and stage.
We will support the formation of ecosystems around our large companies with high R&D capacity and advanced in their fields, where companies with different levels of production are located.
We will conduct impact analyses of R&D, innovation and SME supports provided by TÜBİTAK and KOSGEB and update the support system according to needs.
We will establish a Turkish Science Base in Antarctica in 2019.
Thus, Turkey's science flag will fly in Antarctica.
Turkey will be one of the 30 countries that have a say on Antarctica.
We will support design centers like R&D centers and allow R&D and design personnel to work more flexibly.
We will increase the design competence of SMEs.
We will complete the process of establishing a patent exchange.
We will establish mechanisms that will evaluate industrial property rights, especially patents, and contribute to their commercialization.
We will take measures to commercialize patents created in public research centers, especially state universities, and private research centers supported by the public.
We will ensure that unprotected inventions and unused patents in our country are brought to industry.
We will raise public awareness on industrial property rights through promotional and educational activities to inform the public at all levels.
Digitalization
As AK Party, we see the digital transformation of our country as one of the most important issues that will shape our future.
The phenomenon of digitalization, which involves the technology-oriented structural transformation process of economies, will be one of the main issues shaping the global economy in the coming period as it is today.
New technologies such as the Internet of Things, sensor technologies, smart automation technologies, robotics, data analytics and artificial intelligence, augmented reality, cloud technology and additive manufacturing, which are products of digitalization, have started to play a dominant role in our lives.
Digitalization affects every stage of social life, from education to health, from justice to public administration, from production to trade.
In the coming period, the only countries that can stand out with their economic and social strength and competitiveness will be those that can catch up with the transformation process brought about by digitalization.
In the coming period, Turkey will realize its digital transformation in every field.
With "Digital Turkey", we aim to become a country with high competitive power and a country that makes a name for itself in every field in the world.
Smarter, faster and more efficient business processes will be created with real-time interaction of all components of the value chain through digital transformation practices in strategic sectors targeting the integration of ICTs with production sectors.
As a result, high quality products will be produced at low costs.
In addition to production processes, digitalization significantly affects pre-production and post-production processes, which have higher added value than the production process.
In this context, we will increase the added value brought by digital transformation by focusing not only on production processes but also on pre- and post-production processes.
a. What We Did
The high level of our ability to use and rapidly adapt technology during the period of our governments will create a significant competitive advantage in the digitalization process.
We have made significant progress especially in the field of information and communication technologies (ICT), which will provide an important basis for the digitalization process.
The market size of the ICT sector has increased nearly 10-fold since 2002, from USD 2.6 billion to USD 25 billion by the end of 2017.
We have strongly supported the ICT sector with public investments, particularly in software, hardware and data infrastructures.
In 2017, the budget allocated to 256 public IT projects amounted to USD 1.5 billion.
The number of fixed and mobile subscribers increased from 40 million in 2002 to 90 million in 2017.
The number of broadband subscribers increased from 3 thousand in 2002 to 69 million in 2017.
We have initiated policy and strategy development activities to ensure digital transformation in the manufacturing industry in our country.
We established the "Digital Transformation Platform in Industry" with the participation of NGOs.
The platform aims to determine and implement policies and develop projects regarding the digital transformation of the industry.
We launched the Digital Transformation Program for SMEs.
Within the scope of the program, we aim to use our resources in the right way and to benefit as much as possible from digitalization.
In this framework, we have initiated efforts to realize digital transformation in all areas, with priority given to the chemical and pharmaceuticals, motor vehicles, machinery and equipment, food and semiconductors and electronics sectors.
We have also included the IT and software industry, which is strategically important within the scope of digitalization and is in horizontal relations with other focus sectors, in the category of focus sectors.
In order to accelerate digital transformation in the industry, we conducted studies on smart production systems.
As a continuation of this, we have prepared the roadmap for the digitalization of industry.
We identified its six components as People, Technology, Infrastructure, Suppliers, Users and Governance.
We started implementing the necessary steps for each component.
We launched smart city applications.
In order to train the workforce that will realize the digital transformation of the industry, we have created a curriculum in the field of information technologies at high school level.
We benefit from Region 5 incentives for digitalization-related issues.
b. What We Will Do
In the coming period, digital transformation will be among our priority policies in all sectors of the economy.
As AK Party, we will turn digitalization into an opportunity to start a high value-added investment cycle in our country.
We will improve cooperation between the private sector, civil society representatives, public sector and universities to accelerate digital transformation in industry.
We will support the digital transformation of our existing industrial enterprises and make them more competitive.
We will accelerate the implementation of the digital transformation of industry roadmap we are currently implementing.
We will establish the first of the Digital Transformation Centers in the Informatics Valley to accelerate the digital transformation of SMEs.
We will support the domestic development of critical technologies that will serve the digital transformation of the industry and the formation of domestic supplier companies.
To this end, we are mobilizing KOSGEB and TUBITAK support, and ensuring that our Research Centers play a leading role in key technologies that will be the key to transformation.
We will establish Design and Digital Transformation Centers in large OIZs, which will be a guiding interface for the introduction and effective use of new technologies.
We will restructure industrial and technology development zones in a technology and sector-oriented manner.
We will prioritize the development of technology development and production capability for digitalization applications such as artificial intelligence, robotics, cloud computing and big data in our country and establish the necessary research infrastructures in this field.
We will ensure the dissemination of advanced production technologies such as the Internet of Things, which are important in the process of digitalization of the industry.
In this framework, we will increase the number of machines that talk to each other in our country from 4.5 million to 8 million.
We will support the establishment of data infrastructures by transferring information to electronic media and integration between firms.
We will establish technical standards for this purpose in relevant sectors.
We will not allow our country to be just a market in this rapidly developing field.
We will strengthen domestic production in automation and robotics technologies by developing our competencies in the field of software in our country.
We will ensure the adaptation of new business models created by digitalization in industry to our economy.
Taking into account our production capacity, customer demands and our competitiveness in the world market, we will work on the reflections of digital transformation in the consumer electronics, automotive, machinery manufacturing, health and software sectors.
We will establish Design and Digital Transformation Centers and Model Factories in OIZs.
We will provide training, consultancy and on-site implementation services to businesses for the digital transformation of existing industrial facilities.
In this way, we will support the digital transformation processes of our industrial enterprises so that they can be more efficient, highly competitive and interact with the whole world.
We will implement practices to gain competitiveness in areas such as the ability to create customized individual products, rapid prototyping and product renewal, tighter supply chain management, and data management.
We will increase the capacity and productivity of SMEs to use automation and information technologies.
For this purpose, we will create support programs to reduce the lack of knowledge, finance and personnel of our SMEs.
We will invest in human resources to realize and use digital transformation.
To this end, we will strengthen university-industry interaction for human resources with the competencies required by the industry.
In order to turn digital transformation into an opportunity and minimize its potential negative effects on the labor market, we will identify the sectors, professions and skills that will undergo transformation or emerge in the future and harmonize the curriculum at all levels of education, especially vocational education.
We will improve the digital competencies of the existing workforce by redesigning training programs to prepare qualified human resources to adapt to changing needs with digital transformation.
To this end, we will implement a strategy to adapt the labor market to digital transformation.
We will develop the information valley we have established for the information technologies, electricity and electronics, telecommunications, software and robotics sectors to be at the center of digital transformation.
We will identify the established infrastructures in Turkey that can contribute to the digital economy, especially robotics technologies, and the production capacity and capabilities in the private sector, and we will create a special incentive system suitable for the qualified development of this sector.
Manufacturing Industry
In the coming period, we aim to transform our manufacturing industry into a structure that produces higher added value, can use high technology, can respond to the demands of the future trade world, has realized digital transformation to a significant extent, and has gained sustainable global competitiveness.
In line with our vision of our country becoming the production center of Eurasia in medium and high technology products, we will create an industrial structure with companies that produce high value-added goods based on R&D and innovation with an export-oriented approach.
In this context, we see innovation, firm skills, cross-sectoral integration and foreign market diversification as the main focal points of transformation in the manufacturing industry.
a. What We Did
Unlike the previous governments, during the period of our governments, we paid special attention to increasing productivity for the development of the manufacturing industry, being selective in sub-sectors, and investing in physical and human capital.
We accelerated the transition from the medium low technology group to the medium high technology group with the investments and technological transformation we realized in the industry.
Since 2002, the share of low- and medium-low technology products in our exports has decreased by 8 percentage points, while the share of products in the medium technology category has increased by 10 percentage points and the share of medium-high and high technology products by 8 percentage points.
In order to increase the added value of our industry and bring the share of high-tech products to the level of advanced technology producing countries, we launched the Transition to High Technology in Industry Program.
We launched the Localization Product Program.
In this context, in line with our goal of localization in the industry, we aimed to enable our country's manufacturing industry to compete at the international level, integrate into the global market and reduce foreign dependency by producing imported inputs domestically.
We have identified focus sectors.
We have identified the focus sectors that will double our industrial value added and bring the share of high-tech products to 15 percent as information communication technologies defense industry, chemistry, pharmaceuticals and medical devices, food industry, electronics and semiconductors industry, machinery and equipment and motor vehicles.
Since 2002, we have increased our chemical sector exports 4.5 times, from 2.7 billion dollars to 14.7 billion dollars.
We achieved a 40 percent improvement in the ratio of exports to imports between 2002 and 2017.
We increased exports of pharmaceutical products by 4.5 times from approximately 163 million dollars in 2002 to 893 million dollars in 2017.
While the ratio of exports to imports was 9 percent in 2002, it increased to 19 percent in 2017.
We accelerated localization processes in the field of pharmaceuticals and medical devices.
In addition to our project for the production of plasma products from domestic plasma, we are implementing pediatric vaccine production and five medical imaging device projects (tomography, MRI, Ultra-son, bedside monitor and digital x-ray).
We initiated the Industry Cooperation Program (SIP) process for the procurement of Hepatitis-A vaccine and five items of medical imaging devices.
While the export size of our machinery and equipment industry was 1.1 billion dollars in 2002, as of the end of 2017, we reached 7.8 billion dollars with a 7-fold increase.
In the automotive sector, we increased our annual production capacity from 1 million units to 2 million units.
In the sector, we increased production by 4.8 times, capacity utilization rate by 2.5 times, the domestic market by 5.6 times and exports by 5.2 times.
According to the data for 2017, which was a record-breaking year for Turkey, we ranked Turkey 14th in the world in automotive production as of the end of 2017, up from 21st in 2002.
While our export volume in the food sector was 2.3 billion dollars in 2002, by the end of 2017, we had nearly quintupled it to 11.6 billion dollars.
In the electrical equipment and electronics industry, we increased our country's trade volume to 40 billion dollars by the end of 2017.
We have increased the sector's turnover to 28 billion dollars, exports to 12 billion dollars and employment to 188 thousand people.
In the white goods industry, we have made our country the 6th largest producer and exporter in the world and the 4th largest producer and exporter in Europe.
In 2017, we had a foreign trade surplus of 3.4 billion dollars in the white goods industry.
We increased our exports in the iron and steel industry 3.4 times from 2.8 billion dollars in 2002 to 9.6 billion dollars in 2017. We
increased our exports in the basic metal industry 6 times from 3.2 billion dollars in 2002 to 19 billion dollars in 2017.
b. What We Will Do
In the coming period, we will create an infrastructure that will increase the share of domestic and national production with high-tech production in strategic sectors in the industry and ensure the digital transformation of existing industrial facilities.
In this context, we will improve the capacity of recipient institutions to manage the public procurement process in a way to develop the domestic industry in large-scale and investment-quality public procurement.
We will establish a public procurement mechanism that prioritizes the production of high-tech products needed by the public sector with high domestic contribution.
In order to provide a basis for localization efforts, we will focus on 43 product groups by prioritizing the 2,739 product groups that constitute our manufacturing industry's USD 130 billion imports of intermediate goods according to their technology level.
In addition to the 6 industrial zones established to attract domestic and foreign investments in high technology areas, we will establish at least 15 new industrial zones.
We will make Ceyhan Energy Specialized Industrial Zone, the first of these industrial zones where refinery and thermal power plant investments will take place, one of the most important energy production centers in the Middle East and Europe.
Karapınar Energy Specialized Industrial Zone, which has been made ready for investment, where a solar power plant with an installed power capacity of 1,000 MW will be established in the first phase, will be one of the world's largest solar power plants in solar energy.
We will make Filyos Industrial Zone, which is integrated with Turkey's largest port project and has important logistical advantages with its rail and road connections, an important production center for high and medium high technology investments.
We will turn the Karasu Individual Investment Location, where we have started infrastructure construction, into one of Turkey's most important production centers for the defense and automotive industries.
We will also finalize our efforts to identify investors in Niğde Bor and Karaman Energy Specialized Industrial Zones, two other regions where solar energy investments will take place.
We will establish an industrial zone for the petrochemical industry in Mersin, where one of Turkey's most important sectors is located.
We will ensure that Trabzon Investment Island, which will be Turkey's first region created by sea filling, will host high-tech sectors such as defense systems, space and aviation, information technology and telecommunications.
With the Mega Industrial Zones to be established, we will pave the way for large-scale and integrated investments.
We will support technological product investments and clustering activities in priority sectors such as energy, health, aviation, space, automotive, rail systems, IT and defense sectors.
We will prioritize the production of intermediate goods and industrial raw materials that require high investment in order to increase the rate of domestic supply of industrial inputs.
In this context, we will prepare qualified and large-scale space for these facilities, establish mechanisms to encourage domestic and foreign investments, and ensure that these investments benefit from public support with priority.
We will transition to a production structure that can produce high value-added products in pharmaceuticals and medical devices, offer products and services to global markets, and meet a larger share of the domestic need for pharmaceuticals and medical devices.
We will take steps for the local production of pharmaceutical active ingredients.
We will prioritize locally produced medicines and medical devices in reimbursement and pricing policies and licensing processes.
We will increase Turkey's share of global clinical research investments and the number of clinical trials conducted.
We will realize domestic production of plasma products and vaccines.
We will develop financial support mechanisms for SMEs that will produce in the health industry.
By 2023, by realizing technology transfers, we will ensure that computed tomography, MR imaging and ultrasound devices, which are not produced in our country, are produced in our country together with their critical components, and that the existing localization rate is increased by producing the critical components of bedside monitors and digital x-rays, which have a certain level of localization in our country, in our country.
We will accelerate the process of designing, developing, testing and certifying rail system vehicles with national capabilities and realizing their mass production.
We will create a strong domestic supply chain in the machinery sector.
We will develop mechanisms to support investments and joint ventures for the localization of intermediate inputs and products in the machinery sector.
In the automotive sector, we will ensure that the whole of the design, R&D, production and sales-marketing processes, including the supply chain, are developed domestically, added value is increased, and new environmentally sensitive technologies are developed.
We will rapidly realize the Turkey's Automobile Project, which we have initiated to enable us to have the next generation automobile technologies.
We are establishing an Automotive Test Center to meet the testing, certification and R&D needs of civilian and military land vehicles.
With the test center to be established on a 4,358,000 m2 land in Bursa Yenişehir, we are implementing an important project that will contribute to the development of our country's automotive industry.
In this way, our automotive industry will be freed from foreign dependency and we will create an infrastructure for the formation of domestic brands.
In the electronics sector, we will take into account the application opportunities of dual-purpose technologies (defense/civilian) and increase the integration of the sector with other sectors, particularly transportation, automotive and machinery.
We will encourage R&D in the sector and improve laboratory capacity and research infrastructure in lighting and display technologies.
With the increasing digitalization process, we will accelerate efforts to invest in electronics, robotics and sensor technologies, to expand design houses in semiconductor technologies, to develop and scale up battery technologies, especially panel technologies, and power electronics systems.
We will support domestic production in the dissemination of innovative solutions supported by information and communication technologies.
We will realize the Koster Fleet Renewal Project.
With the project, we will renew 20 aging and more than 100 Koster vessels used in maritime transportation by producing and renewing them with the latest technology with our domestic facilities.
We will encourage the production of high value-added chemicals.
We will ensure the production of energetic materials needed in critical weapons, ammunition and protection systems, as well as the chemicals used as raw materials in the manufacture of these products with new technologies.
We will support the development and production of environmentally friendly biotechnological products that will provide import substitution in the chemical sector.
We will support the establishment of new production facilities in the field of petrochemicals that our country needs.
We will ensure sustainable and secure input supply in the basic metal industry.
In this context, we will prioritize the production of high value-added products such as stainless steel, qualified steel, structural steel and seamless pipes, which are imported in iron and steel sector production.
By 2023, we will create production capacity for stainless steel, graphite electrode, zinc ingot, sponge iron and alloy aluminum, which are not produced in our country.
We will create a strategy for the production of steel types other than carbon steel.
We will continue to improve our standards to integrate our industry into the global market.
Defense, Aviation and Space Industry
As AK Party, we have attached strategic importance to the defense industry since the day we came to power.
Our long-term efforts to develop indigenous technology in this field are yielding results and we are ensuring that our nation can live in greater security.
In the field of defense industry, which is of strategic importance, the national and indigenous production model we launched in 2004 with names such as ALTAY, ANKA, ATAK, BAYRAKTAR, HÜRKUŞ and MİLGEM has not only increased the local content rate in the sector from 20 percent to over 65 percent today, but these projects have also become brands with their names.
We have increased these localization rates to over 90 percent in some very strategic platforms such as unmanned aerial vehicles.
Moreover, these products are now exported to friendly and allied countries.
The most important sign of a Strong and Great Turkey is the level reached in the Defense Industry.
With the technological developments we have realized in this field spreading to other branches of the industry, we will ensure that our country becomes one of the countries with high technology in production.
a. What We Did
In line with the modernization needs of the Turkish Armed Forces, in order to create and support the technology base required by domestic development projects, we focused on R&D projects that aim technology demonstration and product-oriented development in which prioritized subsystems, components and technologies will be acquired.
We are now able to produce helicopters, warships, electronic warfare systems, air vehicles, communication electronic systems from the main platform to the sub-systems, which were procured through off-the-shelf procurement in the periods before our government.
Thanks to the national and indigenous policies being implemented, the defense systems developed have both strengthened our technological independence and contributed to the national economy by providing cost-effective results compared to foreign ready-made purchases.
At this point, defense and aerospace turnover, which was approximately USD 1 billion in 2002, has grown more than sixfold in 15 years, exceeding USD 6.7 billion.
In the same period, defense and aerospace exports, which initially stood at only $248 million, grew nearly eightfold in 15 years, reaching nearly $2 billion.
R&D expenditure, which was almost non-existent, exceeded 1.2 billion dollars during this period.
Thus, the defense sector has become the leading R&D and technology investing sector in Turkey.
In 2002, 66 defense projects with a budget of approximately 5.5 billion dollars were being carried out, whereas now we are carrying out more than 600 projects with a volume of approximately 60 billion dollars.
Our defense industry companies export armored vehicles, patrol ships, unmanned aerial vehicles, combat training ships, air defense systems, rockets, simulators, military communication and command and control systems, and enter and export to international markets.
Our unmanned aircrafts, which were developed nationally for the first time in the history of our Republic and equipped with features superior to those of their counterparts in the world, have started to be exported during the period of our government.
Our armed and unarmed UAVs played a very important role in the success of Operations Euphrates Shield and Olive Branch.
After 150 years, the National Infantry Rifle, which could not be made for 150 years, completed its R&D phase and entered the mass production phase during the period of our government.
As of last year, it has been used in the close protection of the Turkish Armed Forces, Gendarmerie and Security Forces as well as high-ranking state officials.
In line with the steps we have taken in Unmanned Aerial Vehicle technologies, we have become one of the top six countries in the world that can develop and produce Armed Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs) with both aircraft platforms and systems and smart bombs.
MİLGEM, the first national ship designed, built and integrated in Turkey, is now sailing in our seas.
Our government's national moves in the field of defense have led to successful results in main platforms and subsystems in the fields of aircraft, land vehicles, naval systems, ammunition such as rocket missiles, electronic warfare systems, command control and radar systems, cyber security and space systems.
Since 2015, 35 Atak Helicopters have been delivered to the inventory of the Turkish Armed Forces and Gendarmerie General Command, and have been actively used in counter-terrorism operations.
Very recently, a contract for the sale of 30 ATAK helicopters was signed with Pakistan.
Since 2014, 46 Bayraktar TB2 Armed Unmanned Aerial Vehicle Systems have been put into operational use, serving as a force multiplier in counter-terrorism and cross-border operations.
We have built four of the MİLGEM warships, the first National Ship of our country, which has been an important force multiplier in the force planning of the Turkish Navy for years.
We are continuing the construction of our other ships in series.
Friendly and allied countries are ordering MİLGEMs from us because we are transferring technologies to them that the Western countries do not give them.
We ensured the production of the Mehmetçik National Infantry Rifle and put it into the service of our soldiers and police.
In addition, several companies have started to produce different caliber infantry rifles.
During our period in power, we revitalized the necessary activities to carry our flag into space.
In 2003, we launched the Bilsat satellite and gained space experience.
We have launched new satellite projects and started to train human resources in this field.
We have established space-related units in TAI, TÜRKSAT, TÜBİTAK and a few other institutions and initiated studies.
The RA-SAT observation satellite was launched into space in 2011, the Göktürk-2 observation satellite was launched in 2012, and the Göktürk-1 observation satellite was launched in 2016, all designed by Turkish engineers and manufactured in Turkey.
These systems support the operations of the Turkish Armed Forces and Security Forces by providing images from space.
We established a high-tech Satellite System Integration and Test (USET) center in line with our vision of space dominance.
Turkey's first national communication satellite Türksat 6A, which we will put into orbit in 2020, is being built here.
We also launched the high-resolution IMECE imagery satellite project.
Hundreds of various armored personnel carrier vehicles entered the inventory during the period of our government, and command control and stabilized weapon systems were produced for these platforms.
These vehicles are now exported to nearly 10 countries.
Koral Radar Electronic Warfare Systems have started to take part in the protection of our country in the field of electronic warfare along the borders.
Smart bomb and missile systems such as Precision Guidance Kit, Laser Guidance Kit, Penetrating Bombs, Winged Guidance Kit, surface-to-air cruise missile SOM are completely indigenously designed and produced and delivered to our air fleets.
MAM-L and MAM-C smart bombs, which were developed indigenously for unmanned aerial vehicles, have been effective in the destruction of terrorist targets by our UCAVs with surgical precision operations.
We have now made multi-barreled rocket launcher systems such as Sakarya, Bora, etc. smart and given them precision strike capability up to a range of 300 km.
We have completed the development phase of the ANKA Unmanned Aerial Vehicle System.
The first 6 Anka S Systems were delivered to the Turkish Air Force.
KORKUT Self-Propelled Barreled Low Altitude Air Defense Weapon System has been put into use to serve along our borders.
Within the scope of the Low Altitude Air Defense Missile System (HİSAR-A) Project and the Medium Altitude Air Defense Missile System (HİSAR-O) Project, subsystem integration testing activities have been completed, and system level development and testing activities are ongoing.
We have developed national internal combustion diesel engines for unmanned aerial vehicles.
The engines, which are currently being tested as prototypes, will soon be used in national UAV platforms.
We also provide project support for jet engines.
We initiated the National Turbo Shaft Development Project for ÖZGÜN Helicopter and ATAK Helicopters, and put the first prototype main engine into operation.
We have initiated two separate engine and transmission development projects, including the engine for the ALTAY Tank.
TCG Bayraktar and TCG Sancaktar, one of the world's largest amphibious landing ships, entered service.
TCG-ALEMDAR Submarine Rescue Mother Ship MOSHIP, New Type Patrol Boats, Coast Guard Search and Rescue Ships were launched and started their missions.
Thanks to our National Technologies, we have carried out operations carried out with surgical meticulousness.
The superiority achieved in the fight against terrorism over the last three years, the successful completion of Operation Euphrates Shield last year, and the effectiveness of our indigenously developed weapons in the most recent Operation Olive Branch have all been clearly observed by the public.
The success in the fight against terrorists without harming civilians in these operations, which are carried out meticulously in a surgical style unprecedented in the world, has been realized as a result of the policies we have implemented in the field of defense industry during our period in power.
In 2012, with the incentive policies we put into practice, we identified investments in defense, aviation and space as priority areas.
Regardless of where these investments made by the private sector are made, we benefited from the regional supports applied in the 5th region.
We connected the Undersecretariat for Defense Industries (SSM), which was established to develop a modern defense industry and modernize the Turkish Armed Forces (TAF), to the Presidency in order to speed up decision-making processes and ensure coordination.
In order to make Turkey stronger on a global scale, we have built incorporation models that can produce focused technologies.
We have opened up our achievements in the field of defense to other sectors. ULAK AŞ has produced and marketed the 4.5G national base station developed for military use for civilian use.
Within the scope of the UNIVERSAL communication tender, the national base station ULAK has started to be used.
We are taking firm steps towards having a say in next-generation technologies (5G and beyond) with our end-to-end secure network systems, for which software-based network design studies have been completed.
b. What We Will Do
On the one hand, we will advance the main platform projects, and on the other hand, we will make projects and investments in basic and advanced technologies in line with the concept of technological depth and global effectiveness.
The successful results we have achieved in main platform and sub-main system technologies will now be extended to critical components and components and advanced technologies.
We will focus on areas undergoing a paradigm shift.
In the information age, where technological developments are very rapid, we will create an investment and development ecosystem by prioritizing according to our needs in areas where the paradigm transformation in technology is experienced, rather than following behind.
We will create strategies and road maps that will carry our country to the most advanced point in the world, especially in the fields of unmanned autonomous systems, artificial intelligence applications and smart weapon systems, such as the road maps we have put forward in the field of Unmanned Aerial Vehicle technologies, and we will ensure that they are implemented step by step.
We will continue to increase the effectiveness of the private sector in defense, aviation and space.
We will increase private sector investments to meet our defense needs faster and more effectively.
We will expand the scope of the current incentive system for investments in defense, aviation and space.
We will take stronger steps to create synergy and cooperation between young entrepreneur ecosystems and main and sub-main industry stakeholders.
We will further increase the localization rate in the defense sector by ensuring that the Defense and Aviation clusters formed during our government work closely with the relevant public institutions.
We will complete investments in basic material technologies necessary for full independence.
We will accelerate investments in aerospace quality aluminum, qualified and armor steels, and non-steel metal warehouses required for material readiness.
We will accelerate defense exports.
We will make moves to sell defense systems that have proven themselves in the field by developing in the field of defense, aviation and space to friendly and brotherly countries in order to create economies of scale.
We will ensure the participation of friendly and brotherly countries as stakeholders in the large-scale strategic projects we carry out.
We will solve the certification processes completely domestically.
We will expand the methodology for measuring the Technology Readiness Level of national critical/technology critical systems and subsystems, which has been systematically applied especially in the defense sector during the period of our government.
By implementing industrial competence programs designed to evaluate and score sectoral capabilities and capacities at different stages, in different categories and in continuity, we will ensure that certification needs in national projects are realized within the country without external dependency.
We will advance the steps taken in the national certification systematic and work to ensure that domestic test centers fully meet our needs.
We will establish test centers where technological products developed as prototypes by entrepreneurs and private sector companies operating within our Technoparks, universities and universities are exhibited, tested and first use experiments are carried out under field conditions and the results are reported and feedback is provided.
We will provide project support to ensure the domestic production of electronic and software-controlled machines and machines used in production processes.
We will carry out projects to ensure the information security of our defense industry companies and protect them from cyber attacks.
We will mass produce the Altay National Tank, whose R&D and prototype phase has been completed.
The National Power System R&D phase of the Altay Tank will be completed and turned into a product.
We will design and produce our engines locally.
We will finalize the R&D activities initiated during our government period on Turbine Engines for Aircrafts and develop turboprop, turboshaft and turbofan propulsion systems.
We will complete the internal combustion engine projects initiated for land, air and naval vehicles and ensure that they are put into use.
We will carry our know-how in Unmanned Aerial Vehicles technology much further.
We will establish central command and control operation centers that will operate over a secure network for our UAVs and UCAVs in the Mini, Tactical and Operative class, whose R&D phases have been completed and entered mass production.
We will coordinate the UAV fleets that perform flights for different purposes in all regions of our country, including the borders and coastlines, in the most effective way.
We will produce Strategic Class Attack Unmanned Aerial Vehicles.
We will develop a turbine-engined Attack UAV System that can fly at higher altitudes for longer periods of time, has a carrying capacity of 1.5 tons, and is equipped with a national AESA radar.
We will equip it with national smart bombs and put it into the service of our country in 2020.
We will start R&D studies in the field of Combat Unmanned Aircraft.
In the aviation technology of the future, all combat aircraft will be unmanned.
By 2023, we will develop the turbofan-engined National Unmanned Combat Aircraft, which can also perform air-to-air missions that will bring our country to the highest level in this field.
We will complete the domestic production of the Landing Platform Dock Dock (LPD), the largest naval project initiated during our government, to operate on the high seas, and incorporate it into the navy.
We will complete the National Low, Medium and Long Altitude Air Defense Systems projects.
The preliminary design phase of the National Combat Aircraft (NCA) Project, which was initiated under our government, is ongoing.
Our goal is to create a 5th generation fighter aircraft with low visibility, built-in weapons bay, high maneuverability and increased situational awareness.
We Establish Computer Processor Chip Design Centers.
YİTAL AŞ has been established and Turkey will now be able to say "I am here too" in semiconductor technologies.
Setting out with the goal of a generation that can design its own processors with different production technologies, YİTAL will now be able to design and produce critical and strategically important processor chips in Turkey with national capabilities.
We will complete the projects we have started on radar, electronic warfare and long-range missiles.
We will carry the gains achieved in the fields of signal, communication and electronic intelligence even further.
We will complete the projects we have initiated on Remote Jamming air platforms and electronic payload systems.
TRTEST AŞ will be established, idle test infrastructures in Turkey will be mobilized and new infrastructures will be established in high coordination.
We have completed the European EASA certification procedures for different models of the Hürkuş Trainer Fighter Aircraft, and we will take the A, B and C models into inventory in this period.
We will strengthen our place in space.
We will complete the communication satellite project we have started.
The Turksat 6A satellite will be ready for launch in 2020.
Within the scope of these projects, many parts used in the satellite are being developed.
In the coming years, thanks to these projects, we will send many critically important components that we have developed into space.
We will advance the steps we have taken in the field of hybrid fuel technologies used in space systems and develop propulsion systems for access to space.
We will establish the Space Agency in 2018.
We will establish the Space Agency within a year, which will carry out activities on the coordination of space projects carried out in our country, training human resources to work in these projects, establishing cooperation with other space agencies, raising awareness about space among young people at an early age, and initiating Turkish astronaut work.
Energy and Mining
As AK Party, we see energy as a strategic sector.
We attach special importance to energy policies, especially supply security, and aim to achieve a competitive energy system that strengthens Turkey's strategic position in international energy trade.
In the field of energy, we are committed to the provision of lower-cost inputs; continuous, high quality, safe and secure supply of energy to final consumers at minimum costs; and resource diversification in energy supply.
In the coming period, we will continue to maximize the use of our domestic and renewable energy resources, prioritize increasing energy efficiency, and utilize nuclear technology in electricity generation.
and we will continue to focus on energy policies that minimize environmental impacts.
a. What We Did
During our governments, we attached importance to the creation of sufficient electricity generation capacity, diversification of energy resources, domestic and renewable energy resources, and privatization of generation and distribution facilities.
Between 2002 and 2017, we made important legislative arrangements.
We enacted the Law on the Utilization of Renewable Energy Resources for Electricity Generation, the Energy Efficiency Law, the Energy Efficiency Strategy Document, the Electricity Market Law and the National Energy Efficiency Action Plan.
We have implemented important regulations in the field of oil and natural gas.
We enacted the Turkish Petroleum Law, which includes comprehensive amendments on petroleum and natural gas licenses, especially the incentives for exploration and production activities.
We have made comprehensive amendments to the Mining Law to address the problems encountered in practice.
We ensured that the Law on Geothermal Resources and Natural Mineral Waters, which regulates the effective use of geothermal and natural mineral water resources in our country, entered into force.
We established the National Mineral Resource and Reserve Reporting Commission (UMREK) and the Turkish Geosciences Data and Core Information Bank (TÜVEK).
We have implemented practices to reduce external dependence on energy and meet the need for raw materials in industry.
We significantly increased our resources allocated for mineral, energy raw materials and geothermal resource exploration, strengthening energy infrastructure and energy efficiency investments.
We increased the annual investment amount in the energy sector from 4.5 billion TL in 2002 to 11.6 billion TL in 2017.
We increased the installed capacity from 31,846 MW in 2002 to 86,868 MW by the end of March 2018.
We increased electricity generation from 129 billion kWh to 296 billion kWh.
Electricity consumption per capita increased from 2,046 kWh to 3,650 kWh per year.
We have ensured that more electricity is generated from renewable energy.
We launched the Renewable Energy Resource Areas (YEKA) model.
Within the scope of the YEKA model, competitions were held for the establishment of 1,000 MW solar and 1,000 MW wind power plants and record low production prices were achieved.
Within the framework of the model, the foundation was laid for our country to become a renewable power plant equipment production center in the coming years.
In 2002, we increased our installed capacity of renewable energy sources from 12,300 MW, including hydraulics, to 40,438 MW by the end of March 2018.
We more than doubled our installed hydroelectric power capacity to 27,502 MW in the last 16 years.
We have taken concrete steps in nuclear energy, which has been discussed for many years.
Agreements were signed for the construction of two nuclear power plants: 4,800 MW in Mersin and Akkuyu and 4,480 MW in Sinop.
In addition to these two plants, work is underway for a third plant.
By integrating with the European Transmission System, we made electric energy trade possible.
We increased the share of the mining sector in GDP from 0.8 percent in 2002 to 1.5 percent.
We increased our mining exports from 0.6 billion dollars in 2002 to 4 billion dollars in 2017.
In 2002, only 6 provinces were using natural gas, whereas today, 78 provinces and more than 400 districts can use natural gas.
We commissioned the Tuz Lake Natural Gas Underground Storage Project to regulate seasonal, daily and hourly changes in natural gas consumption and ensure security of supply.
We increased the storage capacity of the North Marmara and Değirmenköy Underground Storage Facilities.
We commissioned the Hatay-Dörtyol and Ali Ağa Floating LNG Storage and Regasification (FSRU) terminals, which will contribute to our country's natural gas supply security.
We started exporting natural gas to Greece through the Turkey-Greece Natural Gas Pipeline, which was commissioned in 2007.
We commissioned the Baku-Tbilisi-Ceyhan (BTC) Crude Oil Pipeline, which transports oil from Azerbaijan through Azerbaijan, Georgia and Turkey to the Ceyhan marine terminal.
We signed the intergovernmental agreement with Azerbaijan for the realization of the Trans-Anatolian Natural Gas Pipeline (TANAP) Project and started the construction of the project.
More than 93 percent progress has been achieved throughout the project and it will be commissioned in June 2018.
In order to increase exploration activities in oil and natural gas, we purchased a seismic research vessel in 2012 to ensure that exploration activities are carried out without interruption.
In addition, a fully-equipped seismic exploration vessel was built with domestic capabilities and put into the use of our relevant institutions.
We brought Turkey's first drillship to our country.
We will now be able to drill for oil and natural gas in the deep sea.
We have made incomparable progress in the exploration and production of natural resources.
While the allocation for mineral and geothermal resource exploration was 17 million TL in 2002, we increased this amount to 451 million TL in 2018.
Between 2002 and 2018, we increased the annual allocation for oil and natural gas exploration from 105 million TL to 1.6 billion TL.
As a result of exploration activities carried out between 2002-2017, we increased the known lignite coal reserves from 8.3 billion tons to 17.3 billion tons.
Total lignite reserves identified after 2005 are over 9 billion tons.
We have identified significant reserves in many minerals such as gold, zinc, copper, zeolite, feldspar, quartz, marble and geothermal fields.
b. What We Will Do
As AK Party, we will continue to provide cheap, quality and safe energy to our citizens and producers in the coming period.
In this context, a competitive, transparent, consumer-protected and predictable energy market that also takes into account market and environmental sustainability will continue to be our priority.
In the period ahead, we aim to utilize our domestic and renewable energy resources to the maximum extent possible.
One of our main goals is to ensure the domestic production of energy and natural resources related technologies both through R&D and technology transfer.
We will ensure resource diversification by prioritizing domestic and renewable resources and encourage maximum utilization of these resources.
We will increase the use of new and domestic technology by providing technology transfer in the field of renewable energy.
We will implement regulations to encourage on-site consumption for the use of renewable energy sources.
We will accelerate the installation of renewable generation facilities and continue to expand YEKA-Solar and YEKA-Wind.
Thus, we will improve localization, technology transfer, domestic production and R&D activities.
We aim to add 10,000 MW of capacity to our hydroelectric capacity.
We will renew our inventory in renewable energy such as solar, wind and geothermal energy and accelerate efforts to improve our capacity.
The Ilısu Hydroelectric Power Plant, which will be the 2nd largest dam in Turkey in terms of filling volume and the 4th largest dam with an installed capacity of 1,200 MW, will start to hold water this year and we will generate an annual average of 4 billion kWh of electricity.
With a 270 meter body height, we will complete the Artvin Yusufeli Dam, which will be the highest dam in Turkey and the 3rd highest dam in the world.
We will continue our efforts to strengthen the infrastructure of the electricity transmission network and transform it into a modern network.
We will increase our electricity trade capacity with neighboring countries.
By the end of 2018, we will complete natural gas supply in all provinces.
With the work currently being carried out, we will have delivered natural gas to 222 districts by the end of 2019.
We will continue to increase natural gas storage capacity.
We will increase the capacity of the Tuz Gölü Natural Gas Storage Facility from 1.2 billion m3 to 5.4 billion m3.
We will increase the capacity of the Silivri natural gas storage facility from 2.84 billion m3 to 4.6 billion m3.
We will increase Turkey's natural gas storage capacity to 20 percent of our annual consumption.
In line with the goal of reducing external dependence in energy production, we will pursue a proactive strategy in domestic and international oil and natural gas exploration activities, particularly in the Mediterranean and Black Sea.
We will increase the exploration of domestic resources that can be used in energy production without slowing down.
We will maximize exploration activities to identify the potential of domestic resources such as lignite coal and geothermal resources.
We will accelerate the implementation of clean coal technologies for the utilization of domestic coal.
With new generation thermal power plants, we will utilize domestic coal resources with maximum efficiency.
We will ensure that the coal fields licensed by the public sector are opened for investment with appropriate models.
With the increase in domestic coal-based electricity generation, we will construct domestic coal-fired plants with an additional capacity of at least 5,000 MW.
We will generate at least 60 billion kWh of domestic coal-based electricity annually.
Like the Lignite Exploration Project, we will prepare a Hard Coal Exploration Project and ensure that exploration activities are initiated.
With new business models that will increase production and employment, we will ensure that hard coal meets the country's needs.
With energy efficiency, we will reduce carbon emissions and protect the environment while increasing our competitiveness with less input use.
We will continue our efforts to raise public awareness and consciousness on energy efficiency.
With the implementation of the Energy Efficiency National Action Plan we have prepared, we will save 23.9 million TOE, equivalent to 8.4 billion dollars.
We will raise our energy efficiency to a level in line with international criteria and create a domestic market in this field.
We will support investments in energy efficiency in existing buildings, especially in residential buildings.
We will develop special support programs for SMEs and households in the field of energy efficiency.
We will support efforts to increase the use of energy-efficient products over inefficient products.
We will continue to take all legal steps for the future of the mining sector.
We will improve the sector's compliance with environmental legislation.
In this area, we will determine Turkey's Raw Material Supply Strategy.
We will review our exploration, production, import and export policies within this framework.
It will carry out legal arrangements and activities related to the exploration and exploitation of minerals needed by our country abroad.
We will introduce new models for safer and more efficient mining and restructure public institutions related to mining.
We will effectively implement the regulations we have made in the Mining Law and other relevant laws to increase occupational health and safety measures in the mining sector.
We will establish the Mining Safety Authority in order to create a culture of occupational safety in mining activities and to carry out safe mining activities.
We will develop a "Roadmap for Safe Mining" on issues such as project and planning safety, environmental safety, investment and capital safety, reserve safety, information safety and occupational safety.
We will move to risk analysis and risk management in mines.
We will continue the exploration and production of the natural resources of our country.
In this context, we will increase the mineral reserves of our country by enabling the public and private sectors to carry out more than 6 million meters of mineral exploration drilling by the end of 2019.
We will complete the geophysical and geochemical maps of Turkey in order to fully reveal the resources of our country.
We will continue to establish tender policies and processes that will enable investment in mining areas such as iron, copper and gold, which have economic value and will provide added value.
We will prioritize the domestic exploration and production of industrial raw materials, especially iron ore, marble and boron.
We will develop a strategy for the safe supply of raw materials that are essential and critical for the Turkish economy.
We will establish a system to regulate the export of critical raw materials, minerals and minerals.
We will create an action plan for industrial raw materials and critical and strategic minerals.
At the same time, we will organize projects and programs for the exploration, research and economic exploitation of these minerals.
Based on sectoral priorities, we will ensure the development of Boron and its derivatives and their active use in industry.
We will increase research activities to expand the use of boron.
In order to support the development of Boron-based industry in our country and to provide sustainable innovations and economic value, we will establish the BOR Organized Industrial Specialized Zone, BOROSIB for short.
Food and Agriculture
Since we came to power, we have seen agriculture as a strategic sector for our country.
By implementing practices to ensure that our citizens have access to healthy and sufficient food, we have established our agricultural policies in a way to ensure food security.
We will establish a production structure based on advanced technology in agriculture, increase productivity and increase our international competitiveness by making the necessary structural transformations based on planned agriculture and modern animal husbandry practices, and rational and modern production models in priority areas.
a. What We Did
In the 16-year period, AK Party has focused on structural transformation in agriculture and we have implemented an understanding that addresses both economic and social dimensions for our farmers.
We considered agriculture, which employs around 5.5 million people, as an important sector in terms of our country's food security and the healthy nutrition of our people.
During this period, we enacted 15 important Laws related to the sector, including the Agriculture Law.
We increased our agricultural income from 36.9 billion TL in 2002 to 188.7 billion TL in 2017.
We have raised our country from 4th to 1st place in Europe in terms of agricultural output and made it the largest country in Europe.
We further strengthened our country's position as a net exporter in agriculture.
We increased our total exports of agricultural and food products from USD 4 billion in 2002 to USD 17.6 billion in 2017.
We have made Turkey a country exporting 1,690 types of agricultural products to 195 countries.
We launched the National Agriculture Project.
In this context, within the framework of sustainable agriculture and animal husbandry, we have taken domestic and sufficient production as a basis in order to ensure Turkey's food security and thus leave a stronger, more productive and prosperous Turkey for future generations.
While only 450 thousand hectares of land consolidation was carried out in 41 years until 2002, we completed consolidation on 5.6 million hectares between 2003-2017.
Work on 2.1 million hectares is ongoing.
While total agricultural support payments were 1.8 billion TL in 2002, we realized 12.9 billion TL in 2017. The
total cash grant agricultural support we have provided to our farmers since 2003 reached 103 billion TL by the end of 2017.
We offered new supports to our producers in animal husbandry.
For the first time, we included 4-month-old and older calves and calves in the scope of support, and ensured that livestock supports are paid directly to producers.
While 83 million TL livestock support was provided in 2002, we increased this support to 3.8 billion TL in 2017.
While the share of livestock subsidies in total subsidies was 4.4 percent in 2002, we increased this rate to nearly 30 percent in 2017.
Between 2003 and 2017, we made 8.2 billion TL diesel oil subsidy payments to our producers.
For the first time, half of the cost of diesel fuel used by farmers is provided as support.
In this context, we made 1.9 billion TL diesel oil support payment to our producers in 2018 for 2017 production.
In the 2005-2017 period, we made a total of 6.7 billion TL fertilizer support payment.
We increased the number of products for which premium support is provided from 5 to 17.
We increased the premium support from 186 million TL in 2002 to 3.9 billion TL in 2017.
We made a total of 1 billion TL in support payments to farmers practicing organic and good agriculture.
In 2016, we reduced the VAT rate on fertilizer and feed to zero, providing an annual average of 2 billion TL indirect support to our farmers.
We launched a 30 thousand TL grant project for young farmers.
In 2016-2017, we provided 931 million TL grant support to 31,045 projects implemented by young farmers.
We started Small Family Business Support for farmers who grow fruits, vegetables, ornamental plants and medicinal aromatic plants with an enterprise size of less than 5 decares.
We make a support payment of 100 TL per decare to our producers.
Within the scope of the National Agriculture Project Basin-Based Support Model, we started to support 21 products that have a supply deficit in our country, are of strategic and regional importance, and are important in terms of human nutrition and animal production.
We have increased certified seed production to over one million tons.
Starting from 2005 until today, we have provided 1.7 billion TL support to our farmers who use certified seeds and saplings and to our seed producing organizations.
We launched interest-free loans to farmers for the modernization of their greenhouses.
We provide loans up to 300 thousand TL to producers who want to modernize their greenhouses, with a discount of 100 percent during the investment period and 50 percent during the operation period.
We launched Support for the Rehabilitation of Traditional Olive Groves.
We provide 100 TL/da support to our producers who carry out rejuvenation pruning in order to bring old olive groves, which have fallen out of economic efficiency, back into the economy.
We launched the fertilizer tracking system on 1 January 2018 to ensure the tracking of fertilizers from production or importation to the end user.
We provided interest support to enable our farmers to meet their financing needs for agricultural production under favorable conditions.
While 205 thousand farmers benefited from the program in 2004, this number increased to 838 thousand farmers by the end of March 2018.
In 2002, agricultural loan interest rates were 59 percent at Ziraat Bank, and since 2006, we have applied interest rates between 0 percent and 8.25 percent depending on the loan subject.
We have increased the amount of loans extended by Ziraat Bank and Agricultural Credit Cooperatives from 530 million TL in 2002 to 41.2 billion TL in 2017.
We have provided zero-interest loans for drip and sprinkler irrigation investments since 2006 and 50 percent grant support since 2007.
In 64 provinces with high agricultural production potential, we protected 243 large plains with an area of 6.9 million hectares as agricultural protected areas.
We increased animal food production.
As a result of our efforts to develop animal husbandry and record production, we increased total red meat production from 421 thousand tons in 2002 to 1.1 million tons by the end of 2017, and white meat production from 696 thousand tons in 2002 to 2.1 million tons by the end of 2017.
We increased milk production from 8.4 million tons in 2002 to 20.7 million tons in 2017.
In order to support the input costs of our ovine breeders, we provided support for the employment of shepherds.
We have included the establishment of breeding heifer production centers, breeding buffalo production centers, breeding ram and goat centers within the scope of support.
We identified pasture livestock breeding regions and provided additional special incentives for these regions.
We increased the duration of pasture lease to nomads from 1 year to 10 years, 5+5.
We put Ağrı, Denizli, Erzurum, Sivas and Yozgat Meat Combines and Erzincan Chicken Combine into operation.
When there was an oversupply of milk, we made intervention purchases to protect producers against low price pressure.
We launched the sale of minced meat and cubed meat at affordable prices across the country.
We established the Fishing Vessel Monitoring and Data Collection System to monitor the activities of fishing vessels and record fishing data. In
2017, we increased our aquaculture production to 276 thousand tons and our total exports of aquaculture products to 855 million dollars.
We increased the number of food inspections from 39 thousand in 2002 to over 1 million in 2017.
In order to ensure the integration of agriculture and industry, we completed 19 thousand agriculture-based industrial facilities and provided employment opportunities for 128 thousand people with 5.4 billion TL grant support for agriculture-based economic investments.
We provided 50 percent grant support for machinery and equipment purchases for the development of agricultural mechanization.
Between 2006 and 2015, we provided approximately 1 billion TL grant support for 261 thousand machinery and equipment purchases.
In cooperation with stakeholders in agriculture, we offered free project preparation to small investors under the rural development component (IPARD) of the Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance to the EU.
Between 2009 and 2017, we opened 21 advanced R&D and training centers.
We increased the amount of support given to private sector and universities conducting R&D studies from 300 thousand TL per project to 3 million TL in 2017 by 10 times.
In order to increase our domestic breeding power in poultry, we produced the "Anadolu-T" domestic breeding broiler chicken.
We expanded the scope of agricultural insurances and assumed a significant portion of farmers' risks.
For the first time, we launched District Based Drought Yield Insurance for the production of wheat, barley, rye, oats and tryptus crops in dry areas to cover losses due to drought, frost, extreme heat and excessive rainfall.
We included the risk of theft within the scope of insurance coverage in bovine and ovine life insurance.
In addition to the products of trees, saplings and vines, we have also included them in the scope of insurance coverage.
We started to offer a 5 percent discount on insurance premiums for women and young farmers.
In order to prevent producers from having to dispose of their products during harvest periods when prices are low, we provided rental support to those who store their products in licensed warehouses.
We postponed the agricultural loan debts of our farmers damaged by natural disasters.
We restructured the debts of agricultural cooperatives.
In order to ensure that our farmers can receive services without coming to our service units, we launched the Green Desk application in 81 provinces and started to receive the requests, suggestions and complaints of farmers.
We established the National Food Reference Laboratory, our country's first international reference laboratory.
b. What We Will Do
We aim to become a country that feeds its population with sufficient, high quality and reliable food, further improves its position as a net exporter of agricultural products, increases its competitiveness, and has a say in agriculture in the world and in its region.
We will manage our agricultural sector in cooperation with all other sectors, with an approach that protects the environment, prioritizes the increase of the young population in rural areas, and ensures total rural development and effective production planning.
We will transform our country into a structure that is self-sufficient in animal husbandry and maximizes its productivity and competitiveness in crop production.
We will follow a more effective support policy by reducing the number of agricultural supports.
In 2023, we will continue to work with all our strength for a Turkey that has increased our Agricultural Gross Domestic Product to 150 billion dollars and our agricultural exports to 40 billion dollars.
In the coming period, we will cumulatively complete land consolidation works on 8.5 million hectares and support in-field development services.
In 2018, we will make a total of 14.5 billion TL in support payments to our farmers.
We will announce agricultural supports for minimum 3-year periods.
We will continue to provide 50 percent grant support for agriculture-based economic investments to ensure agriculture-industry integration.
We will continue to give positive discrimination to young farmers in support payments.
In 2018, we will provide 503 million TL support to projects to be implemented by approximately 16,700 young farmers.
We will implement the Co-Production Model in 81 provinces and 250 villages.
Until 2020, we will continue to provide support under IPARD-II.
With the 5.2 billion TL grant we will provide, we will support 10 thousand new investments and create 50 thousand new jobs.
We will invest 8.4 billion TL in rural areas.
By the end of 2018, we will increase the number of protected great plains to 265, and our target for 2023 is to increase the number of plains to 300.
We will support activities and new practices to increase agricultural production.
We will implement projects that will bring family businesses to an economic scale and enable them to produce for the market.
We will support farmers and entrepreneurs to invest in modern agricultural techniques such as high-tech greenhouses and vertical farming.
We will support the use of grafted and other seedlings produced with local seeds in fresh vegetables and fruits.
We will promote the use of renewable energy in agriculture.
We will expand the use of information technologies for land use and soil protection.
We will encourage the production of new products through model garden practices.
We will emphasize the production of cut flowers and ornamental plants and create regional markets and auctions close to the airport.
We will increase certified seed production to 2 million tons.
We will support the use of certified seeds.
We will open 780 thousand hectares of agricultural land leased in Sudan to the investment of Turkish entrepreneurs through the company established in partnership between TİGEM and the Government of Sudan.
We will ensure the expansion and development of the licensed warehousing system.
We will build licensed warehouses for the private sector under a long-term lease guarantee.
In 2018, we will complete the construction of warehouses with a capacity of 2.5 million tons.
We give farmers who use our Treasury lands the right to use the land they use for 10 years.
At the end of 10 years, our farmers will be able to buy these lands or renew the use agreement for another 10 years.
In order to increase forest areas in our country, prevent erosion, and support the production of products such as walnuts, almonds, olives, etc., we will offer up to 10 thousand acres of Treasury real estate to real and legal persons for lease.
We will increase animal presence.
We will become a self-sufficient country in red meat consumption.
We will increase support for breeding animals.
We will continue to encourage the construction and renovation of barns and pens that will protect animal health, welfare and increase productivity.
We will take necessary measures to reduce calf losses and deaths.
We will give special importance to animal husbandry in the Eastern Anatolia Region and support the establishment of integrated facilities.
In order to increase the animal wealth of our country, we will provide 250 thousand breeding pregnant heifers and 500 thousand breeding sheep up to 300 heads in total to eligible breeders with Ziraat Bank credit facilities.
We will continue to regulate the milk market when needed.
We will protect producers and consumers, ensure sustainability and maintain stability in milk prices.
We will increase production in aquaculture.
We will increase our aquaculture exports to over 1 billion dollars.
We will continue to expand the scope of agricultural insurance.
We will also include lentil and chickpea crops within the scope of the District Based Drought Yield Insurance for cool climate cereals.
We will ensure that the start of coverage for apple, pear and quince fruits is moved to the pink/white bud period.
We will cover rain damage in figs and grapes and the risk of calving in ovine animals.
We will implement Specialized Organized Industrial Zones based on Agriculture.
We will accelerate R&D studies with our 17 Research and Training Centers that are in the process of being established.
We will be a country that continues to feed its population with sufficient, quality and reliable food.
In this context, we will ensure the prevention of risks that may arise from genetically modified organisms and products and the effective operation of the control and inspection system.
In the field of phytosanitary, we will ensure the licensing of protection products, including imports, the control of biological effects of products and the development of monitoring infrastructure, and the raising of awareness among producers.
We will make nutritional information mandatory on the labels of packaged products.
Citizens will be able to find out what benefits the ingredients in the food they consume will bring to them.
We will continue to reduce salt and sugar in food to the extent that technology allows.
Support SMEs for branding in food production.
We will prepare mandatory guidelines on our national preventive measures for bioterrorism and bio-threat.
Transportation and Logistics
As AK Party, transportation and logistics is one of the areas we have given the most importance and invested in during our 16 years in power.
Our Party attaches special importance to the development of transportation and logistics infrastructures, which are the lifeblood of major economies, and thus to increasing the competitiveness of our country.
a. What We Did
During our governments, the transportation investments we have realized have assumed a very important function in increasing the competitiveness of our country and improving the quality of life of our citizens.
In the past 16 years, we have demonstrated that we have the power to implement huge transportation projects that are the envy of the world.
With the investments we made, we opened the blocked veins of our country in the field of transportation.
We have connected north and south, east and west with the transportation axes we have created.
Our investments in highways, divided roads, airports, high-speed rail lines, ports and shipyards, and smart communication systems were appreciated not only by our citizens but also by the world.
We have made many times more investments in 16 years than in eighty years.
Between November 3, 2002 and April 1, 2018, we invested 474.3 billion liras.
We have undertaken giant projects in road transportation and we have come a long way.
We opened the Northern Marmara Motorway, Yavuz Sultan Selim Bridge, Osmangazi Bridge and Eurasia Tunnel, which we completed with the Build Operate Transfer Model.
As of the end of 2002, there were 6,101 km of divided roads, including 1,714 km of highways, and as of April 1, 2018, we increased the length of divided roads to 26,034 km, including 2,657 km of highways.
Thus, we have put into service 19,933 km of divided roads, including 943 km of highways.
While only 6 provinces were connected to each other with divided roads in 2002, today 76 provinces are connected to each other with divided roads.
Thanks to divided roads, we saved 17.3 billion TL in fuel and labor annually.
Thus, we prevented the emission of 3.25 million tons of carbon dioxide.
We almost tripled the length of roads covered with hot asphalt, which increases the comfort and lifespan of roads, from 8,591 km to 23,738 km.
While only 50 km of tunnels were built in the 1923-2002 period, we built 383 km of tunnels in 16 years.
We increased the length of bridges and viaducts from 311 km before 2003 to 556 km.
We started the practice of having the technical inspections of vehicles carried out by the private sector under state supervision.
We ensured that 208 fixed, 76 mobile, 5 motorcycle and 16 tractor inspection stations were established across Turkey, and that 9 million vehicles were inspected annually.
We have made railways a state policy.
We attached importance to the construction of high-speed train lines, modernization of existing lines and renewal of traction and towing vehicles.
For the first time in Turkey, we built a 1,213 km high-speed train network.
As of April 2018, we increased the length of railway lines from 10,948 km in 2002 to 12,671 km.
We completely renewed our 10,591 km long conventional railway line.
In 2003, we increased our electrified lines from 2,082 km to 4,723 km and our signaled lines from 2,505 km to 5,534 km.
We are also continuing electrification and signaling works on the 3,960 km long line.
We opened the Ankara-Eskişehir High Speed Train line in 2009, Ankara-Konya High Speed Train line in 2011, Eskişehir-Konya High Speed Train line in 2013, Ankara-İstanbul High Speed Train line and İstanbul-Konya High Speed Train line in 2014.
We started to provide direct services to 33 percent of the population in 7 provincial centers on these routes.
Ankara-Sivas and Ankara-İzmir high-speed railways are under construction.
We made the tender for the construction of Kayseri - Yerköy high-speed railway.
In addition to HSR lines, we are building high-speed train lines suitable for 200 km/h, where freight and passenger transportation can be carried out together.
Currently, a total of 3,958 km of railways are under construction, including 1,870 km of high-speed, 1,454 km of high-speed and 634 km of conventional railways.
We realized the project of the century, Marmaray.
We opened the Baskentray project on April 12, 2018.
In Izmir, we put the Tepeköy-Selçuk line of Egeray (Izban) into service.
We increased the suburban line from 110 km to 136 km.
We held the tender for the construction of the Aliağa-Bergama line to extend it to Bergama, 50 km to the north.
We realized the Kars-Tbilisi-Baku Silk Railway Project, the most important link in the uninterrupted railway transportation from London to Beijing, bringing civilizations together.
In Ankara, we launched Kızılay-Çayyolu, Batıkent-Sincan and Keçiören-AKM subways.
We completed the Istanbul-Levent-Hisarüstü Metro line and Antalya Meydan-Airport-EXPO Rail System lines.
We paved the way for transportation and trade with logistics centers.
We have established 9 logistics centers in order to increase the competitiveness of our enterprises, facilitate their marketing opportunities and make combined transportation more effective.
We are continuing the construction of 5 centers and the project design of 7 centers.
We have made the airway the people's road.
We liberalized the sector with the regulations we made in the field of aviation.
We have enabled the sector to grow rapidly with the new airports we built in many provinces and the modern terminals we built at existing airports.
At the end of 2002, there were 26 active airports and 33.7 million passengers.
By the end of 2017, we increased the number of airports to 55 and the number of passengers to 193.6 million.
In the same period, the number of airplanes increased from 138 to 517.
We built new airports to reach the target of one airport every 100 km.
In 2002, we flew to 60 destinations in 50 countries with 2 airline companies, while by the end of 2017, we reached 296 destinations in 119 countries with 6 airline companies.
Thus, we increased the total number of destinations to 351, including domestic destinations.
While 65 thousand employees were employed in the sector at the end of 2002, this number reached 196 thousand at the end of 2017.
The sector's turnover, which was 2.2 billion dollars, reached 25 billion dollars at the end of 2017.
We turned our national airline THY into a world brand.
We have started construction of Istanbul New Airport.
We open the first phase on October 29.
When completed, it will be one of the largest airports in the world with a passenger capacity of 150 million.
We completed Ordu-Giresun Airport, one of the few airports built on the sea in the world.
We are continuing the construction of Rize-Artvin Airport, the second airport built on the sea.
We increased our satellite communication capacity.
In 2008, we successfully launched Türksat 3A, Türksat 4A in 2014 and Türksat 4B in 2015, doubling our satellite communication capacity and increasing the number of TVs broadcasting from satellites to over 500.
We launched the Türksat 5A and 5B satellite projects to increase our country's satellite communication capacity and protect our orbital rights.
We are continuing the construction of 6A, our first indigenous communication satellite.
We gave the maritime sector the brightest period in the history of the Republic.
In order to establish safe and secure maritime transportation, we have established ship tracking and control systems to increase the safety of navigation, life, property and the environment along our coasts.
We act with a meticulous maritime policy in order to benefit from the maritime advantages of our country's geographical location in a qualified manner.
Ranked 19th in 2003, our Turkish-owned fleet today ranks 15th in the world.
We increased the number of shipyards from 37 in 2002 to 78.
Between 2002 and 2017, we significantly increased maritime transportation.
In 2002, total cargo handling at Turkey's ports was 150 million tons, while this figure reached 471 million tons in 2017.
While container handling was 1.9 million TEU in 2002, this figure reached 10 million TEU by the end of 2017.
We increased container handling capacity from 3 million TEU in 2002 to 21.8 million TEU in 2017.
We zeroed the SCT on fuel supplied exclusively to ships carrying cargo and passengers on the cabotage line, commercial yachts, service and fishing vessels.
From 2004, when the implementation started, until the end of 2017, we provided a total of 4.6 million tons of SCT-free fuel and provided TL 6.4 billion in support.
We encouraged the conversion of boats based abroad or flying foreign flags to the Turkish flag and ensured the conversion of 5,724 boats to the Turkish flag.
We increased the number of fishing harbors from 178 in 2002 to 229 at the end of 2017 by adding 51 new fishing harbors and put them into the service of our fishermen.
We increased our yacht mooring capacity from 8,500 in 2002 to 18,261 by the end of 2017 and put it at the service of our tourism sector.
We have completed the breakwater of the North Aegean Çandarlı Port, which is expected to be one of Turkey's most important main ports, and started construction of the regionally important Filyos Port.
We have also made significant progress in maritime safety.
We ensured that the Turkish flag fleet was white-listed.
Thus, we significantly reduced the number of ships inspected and detained in the ports of the EU, our most important trade partner.
We have made revolutionary progress in the electronic transformation of public services.
With the e-Transformation Turkey Project, we prioritized public ICT investments and rapidly increased investments in this area.
We opened the electronic communications sector to competition in 2004.
With the competitive environment created as a result of liberalization in the field of electronic communications, the number of broadband subscribers, which was almost non-existent in 2003, has reached 69 million today.
In 2005, we enacted the Universal Service Law.
In this context, we are working to eliminate the digital divide and provide basic services to all our citizens.
Within the scope of universal service, we established fixed telephony and broadband internet infrastructure using wireless technology in 1,630 settlements and 410 military posts. In
2009, we authorized operators to provide 3G technology services in Turkey. In
2016, we launched 4.5G technology, which is 10 times faster than 3G.
With this tender, for the first time, we have introduced an obligation to use up to 45 percent domestic certified products.
We carried out infrastructure installation works in rural settlements without fixed and mobile communication infrastructure.
We installed 2G infrastructure in 1,799 rural settlements.
We are providing these settlements with 4.5G mobile broadband infrastructure.
We are also installing 2G and 4.5G infrastructures in 1,472 more settlements.
We rapidly expanded the IT sector and ensured that public services are provided to citizens over the internet through e-Government applications.
Launched with 22 basic services, today we have expanded the e-Government Gateway to 449 institutions, 3,218 services and more than 37.5 million users.
We saved approximately 1.9 billion dollars annually by providing services through e-Government.
By the end of 2017, we reached 77.8 million subscribers in mobile communications, 64.6 million of which were 4.5G subscribers.
In 2008, we introduced Mobile Number Portability, enabling our citizens to receive services at more favorable prices and conditions.
113.4 million numbers were ported.
In 2009, we started offering fiber internet access service.
By the end of 2017, the number of fiber internet subscribers exceeded 2.3 million.
Within the scope of the FATIH Project, we have completed the installation of interactive whiteboards in 432 thousand classrooms and provided multifunctional printers to 46 thousand schools.
We increased the number of Mobile Base Stations to be used in emergencies from 25 to 40 across the country.
We increased the information technologies market from USD 1.8 billion in 2002 to USD 9.8 billion in 2016.
In addition to PTT, we paved the way for private sector companies to legally provide postal services.
Today, 31 different companies are authorized to provide postal services in this sector.
We restructured PTT as a joint stock company.
We automated all PTT workplaces.
For our cyber security, we established a national cyber incident response center (USOM) and formed cyber incident response teams.
We put KamuNet into service, where public institutions can exchange data in a more secure environment.
b. What We Will Do
In the coming period, we will continue to integrate our regions and provinces with each other and build a strong logistics and transportation infrastructure for both passengers and freight.
We will provide Turkey with a transportation infrastructure at the standards of developed countries.
On highways, we will complete our main axes connecting the north to the south, east to the west, and east to south, and develop our highway network.
We will transform our country into one of the world's most important transit centers in the aviation and maritime sectors.
In railways, we will significantly complete our high-speed and high-speed train lines.
We will continue to construct divided roads in sections with high traffic density in order to increase traffic safety and shorten transportation times.
We will connect important transportation corridors with the highway network and build new highways with the BOT model.
We will increase the 2,657 km highway network to 5,034 km.
We will continue our divided road works in order to increase safety in road transportation, to give our roads a world-class quality appearance, and to provide the best road transportation opportunity to regions that have been neglected for years.
We will increase our 26,017 km divided road length to 36,500 km and connect all 81 provinces with divided roads.
We will prioritize and continue the construction of hot asphalt roads on roads with high heavy vehicle traffic.
We will make our highway network covered with hot asphalt to a significant extent.
We will continue to build tunnels, bridges and viaducts that increase road safety and comfort, especially in the North-South corridors where difficult geography prevails.
We will increase our road tunnel length from 433 km today to 700 km.
We will increase our 556 km long bridges and viaducts to 673 km.
We will complete the North-South and East-West corridors that form the highway arteries of our country.
After the 550 km Black Sea coastal road, we will put the 450 km Mediterranean coastal road through 27 tunnels into the service of our citizens and tourism.
We will use new generation materials, production technologies and design methods in highway construction and maintenance applications.
We will create a digital tracking system in the road freight transportation sector.
We will increase our railway network to 25 thousand km.
High-speed railway (HSR) projects that accelerate the speed of Turkey will be realized step by step and we will expand the HSR and HT network to 13,000 km from 1,213 km.
We will complete the Gebze-Halkali line, which is the continuation of the Marmaray project, and we will bring our High Speed trains from Asia to Europe.
After MARMARAY, we will complete the project preparation works for the Gebze-Sabiha Gökçen-Yavuz Sultan Selim Bridge-Istanbul New Airport-Halkalı and the railway extending to Edirne, which will connect Asia-Europe by rail for the second time without interruption.
While renewing our railway infrastructure, we are also increasing efficiency and safety by electrifying and signaling our lines.
We will signalize and electrify our entire rail network.
After liberalization, we will rapidly develop railway transportation with the power and competition of the private sector.
We are starting a new era in freight transportation with renewed lines and logistics centers.
Recognizing that logistics is the most important driver of trade and therefore of development, we will make Turkey a regional hub in logistics.
We will continue to implement the Transportation to Logistics Transformation Program.
We are establishing logistics centers with rail and road connections.
We will connect ports, OIZs, industrial and freight centers to the railway network through transmission lines.
We will continue to develop the domestic and national railway industry.
We have produced and are using the spindle freight wagon.
We will continue our work on National Electric and Diesel Train Sets and National High-Speed Trains to gain competitiveness at the international level.
We will continue to support local governments in urban transportation.
We have put 252 km of urban rail system into service.
151 km of urban rail system is under construction.
By 2023, we will continue to work for 662 km of urban rail system.
We will increase our air transportation capacity by completing new airports.
We will complete Rize-Artvin, Yozgat, Karaman, Bayburt-Gümüşhane, Çukurova, Tokat New, Çeşme Alaçatı, West Antalya and Istanbul New Airports.
We will complete Balıkesir Central, Kahramanmaraş, Gaziantep, Samsun Çarşamba, Cappadocia and Muş Airport Terminal Building Projects.
We will further increase our satellite communication capacity.
By launching Turksat 5A in 2020 and Turksat 5B in 2021, we will be among the first 5 countries to use the new Ku-Band frequency.
With the first domestic communication satellite project, Türksat 6A, which we aim to complete in 2020, we will be among the 10 countries that can produce communication satellites.
We will establish the Turkish Space Agency to carry out activities in the field of aviation and space in our country, to follow and use new technologies and to ensure coordination in projects.
We will further strengthen our country's identity as a "Maritime State and Maritime Nation".
We will put the North Aegean Çandarlı and Filyos ports into service.
We will start the construction of Mersin container port.
By 2023, we will increase our Turkish-owned merchant fleet from 29 million DWT to 50 million DWT.
We will increase our shipyard capacity from 4.4 million DWT to 10 million DWT.
We will increase our container handling capacity from 21.8 million TEU to 32 million TEU.
We will increase our yacht mooring capacity from 18,545 to 50,000 to get more share from yacht tourism.
We will continue to realize investments with the significant contribution of the private sector in order to improve the communication infrastructure in our country and to ensure that our citizens benefit from these services to the maximum extent.
In 2023, we will reach 10 million fiber subscribers.
With the competitive environment created as a result of liberalization, we will increase the number of broadband subscribers, which has reached 69 million, to 90 million by 2023. We will
continue to integrate user-oriented and high value-added integrated services into the e-Government Gateway for more effective and efficient use of the e-Government Gateway, and we will offer all services through the e-Government Gateway by the end of 2018.
We will implement the strategically important National Public Integrated Data Center Project to store data in public institutions in a more secure environment and prevent duplicate data center investments.
We will continue to strengthen cyber capacity building, human resources and technological infrastructures to ensure our national cyber security.
We will make the National Email System available in all public institutions in 2018.
We will implement a single card project in transportation that will be valid throughout the country.
ENVIRONMENT, URBANISM AND LOCAL GOVERNMENTS
With our sustainable, inclusive and balanced development approach, we will reach every individual and every region of our country; we will mobilize all the energy of our country and realize our vision for 2023 and beyond.
In this framework, we adopt as a fundamental objective the balanced and fair distribution of increased prosperity across various segments and regions.
As AK Party, we will continue our determination to implement Turkey's "Green Growth" approach with a sustainable perspective, especially in the fight against climate change.
We recognize the importance of a sustainable environment, both for today's generation and for intergenerational justice and equal opportunity.
With this understanding, we treat the environment with a sense of responsibility towards future generations and see it as a trust.
Taking into account that wealth and culture develop in cities, we prioritize creating cleaner, greener, more peaceful cities with identity and smart cities.
Instead of defining our cities on which our civilization will rise as a collection of spaces consisting only of physical structures, we define them as cities where people and nature are at the center, where culture and art are designed as an indispensable part of life, and which protect, develop and preserve the accumulation of civilization.
We aim to develop in a way that reflects the colors of our culture and the lines of the times we live in, with a robust infrastructure, disaster-resistant and environmentally sensitive.
Protection of the Environment and Natural Resources
In addition to protecting the environment, we see it as a national and international responsibility, as well as an obligation to ensure fairness between generations.
We consider it one of our most important responsibilities to be prepared for increasing environmental challenges, especially climate change.
In addition to protecting the environment, we attach great importance to the concept of "sustainability" and see it not only as a national and international responsibility, but also as an obligation to ensure fairness between generations.
We consider being prepared for increasing environmental challenges, especially climate change, as one of our most important responsibilities.
We aim to expand incentive methods that will accelerate the implementation of Sustainable Environmental Policies.
Environment and Natural Resource Management
With the approach that sustainable development is only possible with a sustainable environment, AK Party aims to make our environment and natural resources a priority to be considered more in all kinds of policies and decisions.
In the period ahead, our main goal is to closely follow international developments for the development of the environment; to produce policies with an understanding that considers the balance between protection and utilization and to manage our natural resources with a sustainable approach.
a. What We Did
When we came to power, we started a new era in environmental policies and practices in our country.
We have taken important steps to protect the environment, eliminate all forms of pollution, afforestation, renewable energy and energy efficiency, protection of agricultural land and access to drinking water.
We prioritized and improved environmental indicators, particularly on controlling greenhouse gas emissions that cause global warming, increasing the use of renewable energy and energy efficiency, improving waste management, extending and improving the quality of services such as drinking water and sewerage, expanding forests and protected areas, and protecting biodiversity.
For the first time during the AK Party governments, modern environmental technologies and treatment facilities were widely introduced in our country.
We initiated a transition to green growth based on environmentally sensitive activities.
We have produced many projects and made giant investments for the protection and sustainable use of the environment.
We have set high standards in the field of waste management and achieved very successful practices.
We launched the National Recycling Strategy.
By launching the Zero Waste Project, we ensured that waste is collected separately at source, recycled without harming the environment and contributing to the economy, waste is prevented and resource efficiency is ensured.
While solid waste sanitary landfill service was provided by 15 sanitary landfill facilities in 2002, we have increased this number to 87 today.
While 23 percent of the population living in municipalities were provided with solid waste sanitary landfill service in 2002, we have ensured that this service is provided to 74 percent of the population today.
While the ratio of the population served by wastewater treatment plants to the total municipal population was 35 percent in 2002, we increased this ratio to 83 percent.
While there were 145 wastewater treatment plants in 2002, we increased this number to 1,029.
We monitor the effluents of wastewater treatment plants with an installed capacity of 10,000 m3/day and above 24 hours a day online.
We increased the number of continuous wastewater monitoring facilities from 30 in 2011 to 233 today.
While marine monitoring activities were carried out with 26 monitoring network stations in the 1990s, today we have increased this number to 343 stations.
While the number of beaches with the blue flag was 127 in 2002, we increased this number to 459.
Our country ranks third in the world.
In 2002, there was no waste collection service from ships, whereas today we provide this service in 294 ports.
We simplified environmental impact assessment (EIA) processes.
In this context, we electronized transactions, reduced bureaucracy and improved the investment environment through legislative amendments.
With the Online Environmental Permits application, we reduced the number of documents required from investors and moved the entire process to the electronic environment.
We gave utmost importance to the protection of natural areas.
We increased the ratio of protected areas (Natural sites, Special Environmental Protection Areas, National Parks, Natural Parks, Nature Reserves, Nature Conservation Areas, Natural Monuments, Wildlife Protection Areas and Wetlands) to the total area of our country from 4.34 percent to 12.68 percent.
In the last 16 years, we have increased the number of protected areas from 175 to 558.
In terms of area, we increased from 9.3 million decares to 30 million decares.
We increased the number of Special Environmental Protection Regions from 13 in 2002 to 16 today.
By commissioning Ecologically Based Scientific Research Reports, we have revealed the current status of the natural values of natural protected areas in our country.
We provided 400 million TL to local governments for projects in protected areas.
In the fields of hydraulic energy, irrigation, drinking water and flood protection, we have invested approximately 126 billion TL from 2003 until the end of 2017.
By establishing facilities such as nature education centers and youth camps in our protected areas, we carried out training and awareness-raising activities for the protection of nature and biodiversity.
With the investments made in our protected areas, we increased the number of visitors from 5.5 million in 2003 to 25 million in 2017.
We declared the Kop Mountain Defense Historical National Park and the Malazgirt Battlefield Historical National Park.
We are transferring our glorious history to future generations by establishing promotion centers and management centers in our Historical National Parks (Sakarya Battlefield, Nenehatun, Sarıkamış and Başkomutan Historical National Parks).
We managed our water resources very actively and increased the added value in the economy.
We switched to basin-based planning in water management.
We completed the basin protection action plans of 25 basins by the end of 2013 and prepared monitoring programs in line with European Union norms.
We have set standards to protect water resources against domestic and industrial waste and wastewater, pesticides and toxic substances.
We established the National Water Information System for effective water management.
We have introduced legislation to reduce water losses in transmission and distribution systems.
We shared Turkey's vast knowledge and experience in water and sanitation with hundreds of experts from nearly 50 countries, especially from Africa, the Balkans and Turkic Republics.
While only 9 facilities were put into service in 3 years between 1999-2002, we completed 7,484 facilities in 16 years, including 525 dams, 527 HEPPs, 336 ponds, 1,232 irrigation facilities, 207 drinking and potable water supply facilities, 17 wastewater treatment facilities and 4,640 flood protection facilities, and put them into the service of our beloved nation.
2012 and 2014, we successfully completed 1,000 ponds and dykes projects in 1,000 days with an investment of 3.3 billion TL.
1 million 700 thousand decares of land were provided with water, 450,000 people were employed and our farmers were provided with an annual income increase of 1.7 billion TL.
In 15 years, we have opened 65 million decares of our 85 million decares of economically irrigable land to irrigation.
We increased agricultural income by 32 billion TL annually.
We have solved the drinking water problems of all our cities in the long term.
With the drinking water action plans, we planned the drinking water needs of our cities until 2040, 2050 and even 2071.
With 207 facilities we commissioned between 2003 and 2017, we provided additional drinking water to approximately 42 million people.
With the facilities we built, we increased our water storage capacity to 166 billion m3 and thanks to the measures we took, we did not make our citizens feel thirsty even in 2017, the driest year of the last 44 years.
We built the Melen Project to supply drinking water to Istanbul.
We connected Asia and Europe 135 meters under the sea with the 5,551-meter-long Bosphorus Tunnel, the first and only one in the world to connect two continents.
We solved the drinking water needs of Izmir, the pearl of the Aegean, until 2040 with the Gördes Dam.
For the first time in the world, we brought Drinking Water from the Motherland to the Baby Motherland TRNC with a total of 106 kilometers long transmission line with 250 meters deep suspended pipes through the sea.
Within the scope of the Ergene Basin Action Plan, we completed and commissioned 13 Advanced Biological Wastewater Treatment Plants and 3 Wastewater Collector Lines.
In the field of Hydroelectric Power Generation, we increased our production from 26 billion kWh to 96.5 billion kWh per year, and one out of every four light bulbs is illuminated with clean energy from HEPPs.
By completing 4,640 flood protection facilities, we protected 2.55 million decares of land and many settlements from floods.
We inaugurated the Muratlı Dam, the first golden necklace of Turkey's fastest flowing river, the Çoruh, and the Borçka Dam.
With a 249-meter body height, we completed the Artvin Deriner Dam, currently the highest dam in Turkey.
We commissioned the 218-meter high Ermenek Dam, the 141-year dream of the Aegean region, the Çine Adnan Menderes Dam, and the largest dam in the Aegean region, the Dalaman Akköprü Dam.
In 2017, we started energy production at the Kığı Dam, which is located on the Peri River and is the 3rd highest dam of its type in Turkey with a height of 175 meters.
We ensured that risks that may arise from weather conditions are analyzed in a timely manner.
In order to provide instant weather information to our citizens, to prepare forecasts and to increase the consistency of forecasts, we established 1,631 Automatic Meteorological Observation Stations (OMGI), 73 Airport Automatic Meteorological Observation Stations (H-OMGI), 81 Maritime Automatic Meteorological Observation Stations (D-OMGI), 2 Maritime Radars, 10 high atmosphere observation stations, 41 Lightning Detection and Tracking Systems (YTTS) and increased the accuracy rate in meteorological forecasts to over 90 percent.
We became one of the three most successful countries in the world in afforestation, and we planted 4 billion 50 million saplings.
We increased afforestation and forest rehabilitation efforts 5-fold.
Turkey is one of the rare countries in the world that has increased its forest cover.
In 2002, we increased our forest cover from 208 million decares to 223 million decares.
In order to improve our country's forestry activities and support our forest villagers, we prepared and implemented Action Plans in 38 different areas such as walnut, almond, chestnut, mulberry, salep, truffle, roadside afforestation.
We launched the "5 Thousand Income Generating Forests for 5 Thousand Villages" project covering the 2015-2019 period.
In the last 16 years, we have provided 14.5 billion TL income to our forest villagers, whom we have always stood by, through direct support and forestry activities.
With the urban forest project we launched in 2003, we have established 140 urban forests and increased our recreation areas to 1,313.
We strengthened and expanded the forest products industry.
We increased industrial wood production from 13.7 million m3 in 2002 to 17.1 million m3 in 2017.
We supported the development of medicinal and aromatic plants.
We increased export revenues from non-wood forest products such as thyme, sage, laurel, carob to 507 million dollars.
By the end of 2017, we established a total of 407 Honey Forests, and our country rose from 6th to 2nd place in the world in honey production.
We have mobilized active mechanisms to protect our forests.
With the fire early warning system we installed, we reduced the response time to fires from 45 minutes to an average of 15 minutes.
In this way, we reduced the area burned to a quarter of the average of previous years.
We completed the forest cadastre works and solved the 2/B issue that had been unsolved for 40 years.
We established the Forest Information System (ORBIS).
We quickly access all data on our forests in a holistic manner.
We have become one of the leading countries in the fight against desertification and erosion, and we have protected our land.
In the 1970s, the amount of soil transported by erosion to the seas, lakes and dams was 500 million tons per year, but we have reduced this amount to 168 million tons in 2017 with our efforts in 16 years.
We prepared a National Desertification Risk Map and established the Soil Information System.
With the Dam Basins Green Belt Afforestation Action Plan, we have afforested around 400 dams and ponds so far.
We also reclaimed 43,000 decares of mining land and restored it to nature.
Between 2013-2017, we carried out flood control works on 4 million hectares of land in 252 flood basins.
We acted with the awareness that our biological richness is our treasure.
We have completed the National Biodiversity Inventory project, which was initiated to clearly reveal the biological richness of our country, in 54 provinces.
We launched the project to record traditional knowledge based on biodiversity as a pilot in 12 provinces.
We took care of our stray animals.
The Law on the Protection of Animals came into force in 2004 for the rehabilitation of stray animals.
In 2004, there were 67 animal care homes with a total capacity of 14,650 animals; as of 2018, there are 233 animal care homes with a total capacity of 85,000 animals in our country.
Between 2009-2018, financial support was provided to 59 local governments for the construction of animal shelters.
We protect wildlife and strengthen their ecosystems.
In our 81 wildlife development areas, we protect wild animals together with their natural habitats.
We carried out feeding activities in order to ensure the survival of wild animals in harsh winter conditions.
We have prepared action plans for 60 sensitive species identified as priorities among our endangered species.
In order to support nature, we produce an average of 100 thousand poultry such as partridges and pheasants and 3.7 million trout fry every year and release them into nature.
b. What We Will Do
Making the measures to be taken and the methods to be applied against increasing environmental problems and climate change our priorities will continue to be among the most important areas of responsibility of our party.
In this context, in the period ahead, we will continue to closely follow international developments in environmental issues and to formulate policies with an understanding that considers the balance between protection and utilization and recognizes the importance of sustainable resource utilization.
We will ensure that environmentally friendly products are preferred in public procurement to ensure sustainable production and consumption.
We aim to be a role model in the world in the field of waste management.
By 2023, we will rapidly expand the Zero Waste Project and implement it throughout our country.
As a priority, we will expand the zero waste system in the service buildings of public institutions/organizations, education, hospitals, shopping malls and other places where citizens are concentrated in Ankara.
In order to effectively separate waste at source, we will ensure the participation of citizens in the system and establish the necessary infrastructure as in developed countries.
By 2023, we will provide wastewater treatment and integrated solid waste management services to all citizens living in cities and ensure that our people live in a healthier environment.
We aim to increase the reuse rate, which is currently 1.2 percent, to 5 percent by 2023 in order to recycle treated wastewater into the economy.
Within the framework of the Solid Waste Program (KAP), we will support the solid waste collection, transportation, recycling and disposal facilities of local governments with funds allocated from the central budget every year.
We will eliminate infrastructure deficiencies in protected areas.
We will provide support to local governments for projects in these areas.
We will carry out education and awareness-raising activities for the protection of nature and biodiversity by establishing nature education centers, summer schools and youth camps in our protected areas.
We will conduct research in all the caves in our country, and in the light of the data to be obtained, we will register these caves as natural assets and take them under protection.
We will ensure the widespread use of alternative, environmentally friendly transportation methods.
We will consider concepts such as green economy, green growth and green employment among our sustainable development goals.
We will increase the number of protected areas in our country to 653 by the end of 2023.
We aim to host a total of 135 million visitors in our protected areas by 2023 through infrastructure, promotion, etc.
We will pave the way for activities to increase the income of local people living in protected areas. We will
digitize natural protected areas at national level so that all protected areas can be shared with our citizens through e-Government.
We will ensure more effective implementation of EIA processes.
We will accelerate permit and license applications in investment processes.
We will establish a National Environmental Labeling System to determine the environmental sensitivity of products and services.
A "Holistic Water Resources Management Model" will be adopted to protect water basins, covering both surface and underground water resources.
We will publish the National Water Plan and the National Water Security Plan.
We will prepare drought management plans and flood management plans for our water basins and increase the number of flood protection facilities from 4,640 to over 10,000 by 2023.
We will assess the impacts of climate change and all activities in water basins on water quantity and quality and take adaptation measures such as saving water, combating drought and preventing pollution.
We will harmonize with the acquis under the Water Quality Sector of the EU Environment Chapter and transform all basin protection action plans into river basin management plans in line with the European Union norms.
We will continue to contribute to international water issues by expanding our technical training programs on water to different geographies around the world.
We will open all of our country's economically irrigable land to irrigation by the end of 2023.
In 85 million decares of irrigable agricultural areas, we will increase the rate of modern irrigation systems from 25 percent to 50 percent.
We will reduce the use of strategically important groundwater in agriculture to 5 percent annually.
With the facilities we will construct, we will increase our water storage capacity from 166 billion m3 to 200 billion m3 in 2023.
1,071 We will complete the facilities under the Lake-Water 2 Project by the end of 2019.
With the Melen and Yeşilçay Projects, we will meet Istanbul's drinking water needs until 2071.
We will complete the Gerede Project in 2018, which will solve Ankara's drinking water problem until 2050.
Within the scope of the Ergene Basin Action Plan, we will complete the construction of 2 industrial wastewater plants.
We will commission 135 billion kWh of our total 180 billion kWh of assessable energy potential in 2023.
For a greener Turkey, our goal is to increase forest areas to 233 million decares, equivalent to 30 percent of the country's surface area, by the end of 2023.
With the goal of "7 billion people, 7 billion saplings", we will plant one sapling for every person in the world and bring 7 billion saplings to the soil.
We will increase the number of city forests to 160 by 2019.
Our 2023 target for City Forests and Recreation Areas is 2,000.
By the end of 2019, we will realize the title deed and registration procedures of all our forests.
We will realize a major breakthrough in the forest products industry.
By meeting our need for tall saplings and outdoor ornamental plants from our own nurseries, we will prevent the import of saplings and become a sapling exporting country.
We will increase industrial wood production to 21 million m3 in 2023.
We will continue to support our forest villagers, whom we have always stood by.
Within the framework of the "5 Thousand Income Generating Forests for 5 Thousand Villages" project initiated for the development of our forest villagers on the spot, fruit bearing forest trees such as walnut, almond and pistachio pine will be planted and the number of honey forests will be increased to 700.
In this way, we will provide an additional 8 billion TL income to our forest villagers.
In our country, we will increase our exports of non-wood forest products such as thyme, sage, laurel and carob to 5 billion dollars by 2023.
We will continue to be a role model in the fight against erosion.
We will continue green belt afforestation in dam basins.
We will reduce the amount of soil transported by erosion to seas, lakes and dams to 130 million tons in 2023.
We will establish a system to monitor national land classes and land use change.
We will reclaim 1,628 abandoned mining areas of 60 thousand decares and restore them to nature.
In order to prevent floods, avalanches and landslides in our country, we will implement 25 Avalanche Control Projects and Avalanche Hazard Maps, 35 Landslide Control Projects and Landslide Hazard Maps, and 250 flood control projects in 250 areas until 2023.
We will complete our ambitious projects to protect our biological richness.
We will complete the National Biodiversity Inventory project, which was launched to clearly reveal the biological richness of our country, at the level of 81 provinces by the end of 2019.
We will complete the project of recording traditional knowledge based on biodiversity in 81 provinces by 2023.
We will open the Çukurova Biodiversity Museum.
In order to rehabilitate stray animals, we will continue our financial support to municipalities for the construction of street animal shelters and sterilization activities.
In order to protect and support wildlife, we will continue to work on the production and placement of wild animals in nature.
In this context, our policy of producing an average of 100 thousand poultry such as partridges and pheasants and 3.7 million trout fry every year will continue.
We will continue to feed wild animals in order to sustain their lives in harsh winter conditions.
We will continue to establish wildlife rescue and rehabilitation centers for the treatment and rehabilitation of wild animals damaged in nature.
We will complete the conservation action plans of 100 sensitive species identified as priorities among our endangered species.
We will establish hunting tourism development zones in order to utilize the rich wildlife resources of our country and bring them into the economy.
Global Warming and Climate Change
As AK Party governments, we have signed important environmental agreements.
We have shown that we are not insensitive to global problems in the context of protecting the environment and combating climate change.
a. What We Did
We have signed the most important international agreements to combat global climate change.
In 2004, we became a party to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and in 2009 to the Kyoto Protocol. In
2016, we signed the Paris Agreement.
We see sensitivity to increasing environmental problems, especially climate change, and being prepared for disasters as an important responsibility towards our people and our world.
We prepared the National Climate Change Strategy and Climate Change Action Plan to combat climate change.
As a result of our successful efforts to protect the ozone layer, we received the "Europe and Central Asia Regional Ozone Network Ozone Layer Protection Medal of Honor" in 2012, 2014 and 2016.
We will continue to make our country proud by increasing this success in the coming years.
We have introduced measures to strengthen air quality.
In order to better monitor air quality, we launched the National Air Quality Monitoring Network with 36 stations in 2005 and expanded it to 300 stations as of 2018.
We have installed monitoring systems in a total of 289 facilities and 625 chimneys in these facilities across Turkey.
We monitor the emission values of these facilities 24/7.
We meticulously follow the Clean Air Action Plans prepared for 64 provinces.
We completed the establishment of 7 Regional Clean Air Center Directorates.
We have prepared a strategic noise map of 25 provinces across the country to control environmental noise.
b. What We Will Do
As a country, we have determined our 2030 roadmap to combat global climate change.
As a rapidly developing economy, we aim to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by up to 21 percent incrementally by 2030.
We plan to achieve this goal through visionary projects in all areas from energy to transportation, industry to urban transformation, waste management to forestry.
We are working to minimize the negative impacts of climate change for our country.
In order to adapt to Climate Change, we are conducting comprehensive studies to identify the negative impacts of climate change on ecosystems, economic sectors, water, waste and transportation infrastructure and the measures to be taken against these impacts.
We carry out projects on a national and international scale.
With these projects, we both fulfill our international responsibilities and improve our country's technical and administrative capacity to combat climate change.
We will intensively continue climate negotiations to protect the interests of our country in the international arena and to access Green Climate Fund Technology Supports under the Paris Agreement.
In the coming period, we will further improve the measurement, monitoring, audit, control and reporting infrastructure.
We will mainstream climate-friendly, long-term "low-emission development strategies".
We will prioritize efforts to prevent greenhouse gas emissions in all modes of transportation, especially roads, and establish the necessary monitoring systems.
We will increase the number of stations in the air quality monitoring network from 300 to 380.
We will complete strategic noise maps in the residential areas of 66 provinces across Turkey by the end of 2019.
Urbanism and Local Governments
As AK Party, we aim to build cities with a soul in accordance with our civilization, based on the principle that the human being is the mirror of the city and the city is the mirror of the human being, and to offer our citizens a more peaceful, safer and beautiful living environment with a new understanding at the local level, especially in these cities.
Cities are the showcases of civilizations.
The civilizational visions of nations are embodied in cities.
As a nation that has established the most deep-rooted civilization in history, it is one of our most important goals to bring our cities together with the vision of the future in the light of our past and our vision of civilization.
Our New Urbanism Vision is built on innovative and original principles that are people-oriented, protect natural resources, climate sensitive, energy efficient, respectful of historical and cultural heritage, based on local and horizontal architecture, making our cities ready for disasters by taking advantage of transformation opportunities, participatory, transparent, solution-oriented, smart city concept.
In our New Urbanism Vision, we will protect the legacies of civilizations that left their mark in our history, our national and spiritual values and cultural codes while planning and designing our cities.
New Municipalism Approach
As AK Party, we see environment, city and urban management as complementary elements.
We see them as cities where the needs of people and the environment are at the center, where culture and art are built as an indispensable part of life, and which protect, develop and preserve the accumulation of civilization.
In our understanding of city governance, we take a healthy cooperation and coordination between the central government and municipalities as a basis, and we believe that local governments should be the main responsible for all kinds of public service provision of a local nature.
In the period ahead, we will improve the administrative and financial capacities of local governments, especially our municipalities, and ensure that they work faster and more efficiently as the service units closest to our citizens and most sensitive to local demands.
Decentralization of public services within the framework of centralized standards will remain our fundamental principle.
a. What We Did
The great transformation in Local Governments started in 1994 when Recep Tayyip ERDOĞAN became the Mayor of Istanbul.
In the elections held in 2004, AK Party mayors came to power in many cities of our country and the great transformation in Local Governments continued at an accelerated pace.
AK Party municipalities have realized great transformations in our cities in line with the goal of Greater Turkey.
Cities without infrastructure, asphalt roads, water, garbage collection, slums, hunger and poverty, cities where even the air could not be inhaled have experienced a great transformation under the AK Party Municipalities.
In 2004, with the belief that national development starts with local development, AK Party municipalities set targets for the development of cities with the slogan "Local Development Begins", and within this framework, city by city development was targeted by solving basic human problems such as infrastructure, roads, water, garbage, clean air, livable environment.
The main goal has been to establish peaceful, livable cities with all the infrastructure and superstructures that a modern city should have.
In the 2009 Elections, the bar was raised even higher in the Municipalities and "Brand Cities" were targeted.
Cities, whose basic infrastructure and humanitarian problems were solved between 2004 and 2009, now have a vision that aims to break out of their shells and become one of the brand cities of the world.
It is aimed to turn our cities into "Brand Cities" in different fields for the development of our country, to increase the welfare level of our people, and to be ready for competition and cooperation.
The goal is for each of our cities to become a world brand.
It is to turn into a center of attraction.
Until 2014, we demonstrated a pioneering municipalism in infrastructure, housing construction, transportation projects and social assistance.
With roads, bridges, tunnels, rail systems, parks, green areas, clean water, clean air, livable environment, orderly streets and social policies, cities have changed, understanding has changed, municipalities have changed and the service bar of AK Municipality has risen much higher.
In 2014, we set a new target for our cities that have solved their infrastructure and superstructure problems and have experienced a great transformation towards becoming a brand city.
To shape our cities with the essence of our civilization, to rebuild and revive our people and cities with our civilization values.
That is why in 2014 we said "Human-Democracy-City on the Road to Great Civilization".
When we said "Local Development Begins" in 2004, "Brand Cities" in 2009, and "Human-Democracy-City on the Road to Great Civilization" in 2014, our main basis was the belief that local governments are the engine of development and that democracy starts locally.
We believe that local governments are the pioneers of development.
For this reason, since 2002 when we came to power, we have always made arrangements to strengthen local governments.
In this framework, we have made many fundamental arrangements in the area of responsibility, duties and services of local governments.
We increased the number of Metropolitan Municipalities to 30 in order to increase efficiency, coordination and quality in services.
We abolished special provincial administrations in these cities.
We ensured the enactment of the "Metropolitan Municipality Law" No. 5216, the "Special Provincial Administration Law" No. 5302 and the "Municipality Law" No. 5393.
We enacted the "Law No. 5355 on Local Administration Unions" to overcome financing difficulties in urban infrastructure and to benefit from economies of scale.
With all these arrangements, administrative and financial tutelage practices on Local Governments have been reorganized according to contemporary norms.
Local Government councils have been strengthened.
This has enabled local governments to provide more qualified and faster services to citizens.
We provided all kinds of financial support for the basic infrastructure needs of our cities without any discrimination.
From the resources of İL BANK A.Ş., we provided a total of 47 billion TL financial support to local governments for 20 thousand works between 2003-2018.
We provided €712 million in grants to 31 municipalities from European Union funds.
In newly established metropolitan cities, we have enacted a law stipulating that at least 10 percent of the budgets of municipalities and affiliated administrations be used for infrastructure services for a period of 10 years, and we have monitored the implementation with sensitivity.
In order to carry out the works and procedures for mukhtars more effectively, we established a Department of Mukhtars in the Ministry of Interior, a Department of Mukhtars in metropolitan municipalities and a Directorate of Mukhtars in other municipalities in order to closely follow the demands.
The spiral of violence that FETÖ, PKK and DAESH terrorist organizations wanted to create in some provinces in the Southeast was not allowed, the resources that should have been used for the basic needs of our citizens living in the city were transferred to the terrorist organization, and the municipal machinery and equipment were prevented from being abused by providing services to the terrorist organization and using them for pit incidents.
Just as such abuses would not be allowed in developed democracies around the world, in our country, as a requirement of the rule of law, municipal administrations that did so were dismissed and trustees were appointed to protect the people's law.
Municipality resources were prevented from being used to finance terrorism, and these resources were put at the service of the people, who are the original owners.
b. What We Will Do
The new and great goal before us now is to build "Cities that Compete with the World and Keep Our Civilization Alive".
In a globalizing world, cities now compete with each other.
Istanbul and London, Beijing and Ankara, Antalya and Barcelona are in this race.
We aim to make our cities competitive with the cities of the world and bring the values of our cities to a global scale.
We aim to turn our cities into centers of attraction on a global scale.
Because if our cities get stronger, Turkey will get stronger and our economy will get stronger.
We will continue to prioritize the concepts of city aesthetics and city silhouette, and we will continue to observe the balance between human and city, and city and nature.
Our main goal is to build cleaner, greener, more peaceful cities with identity.
Preserving the memory of the city, protecting the center where the city was founded and the historical texture is actually to protect and preserve the civilizational accumulation of the city.
We will keep the historical textures outside the planning areas of the city and ensure that the development areas of the cities spread towards the periphery.
For this purpose, our primary goals are to identify the historical and cultural heritage of our cities, to protect the natural texture of our cities and to prepare them to compete with the cities of the world by restoring the heritage of civilization.
However, our main basis for transforming our cities into actors of global competition is an understanding of urbanism in line with our civilizational heritage and values.
In this framework, our main point of departure will be to turn our cities into cities with identity, to make them peaceful and safe places with a soul, to make them places to live in peace, to make them cities of peace where streets and avenues can be traveled safely.
The basic legal arrangements to be made for this are important for the construction of the next period.
Just as many arrangements have been made so far for the development, branding and reconstruction of our cities on the Great Civilization Road, efforts will now be made to make our cities competitive with the world.
In the new period, important reforms will be realized in local administrations in line with the Presidential Government System.
In this context, in order to make municipal work more efficient and effective, the executive power of municipalities will first be increased.
To this end, local governments will be given new powers and duties.
Some of the tasks that are under the jurisdiction of the center will be transferred to local governments.
Financial resources of municipalities will be strengthened.
It will be ensured that municipal senior management (including affiliated organizations) will take office and leave office together with the mayor.
In addition, as a requirement of Participation and Accountability, the audit power of Municipal Assemblies will be increased.
For this purpose, audit mechanisms will be strengthened and municipal companies will be included within the scope of the Municipal Assembly Audit Commission.
It will be made mandatory to broadcast parliamentary meetings and municipal tenders live on the internet.
We will continue to improve the capacity of our municipalities to do business, and we will continue our legal and institutional arrangements to further strengthen local governments.
In order to improve the institutional capacity of local administrations, determine service standards, increase democratic governance and accountability, we will enact the draft legislation we have developed within the scope of our Service Inventory Management System (HEYS), License Information System (RUBIS), e-Municipality and Improvement of Service Delivery Methods in Metropolitan Municipalities Projects and the Draft Metropolitan Law in the upcoming period.
We will take measures to increase the resources of district municipalities in metropolitan areas.
We will support the efforts of metropolitan municipalities for smart city applications.
With the Cloud Municipality Project, we will standardize the municipal services to be provided electronically and provide them with a central infrastructure.
2023 With the Electronic Document Management System (EBYS), we will ensure that all municipalities can correspond electronically with the center and among themselves, as well as the transactions they will carry out with the local government modules used, through the system.
We will make additional arrangements to prioritize the services of local governments and ensure that sufficient resources are allocated to infrastructure investments.
From the resources of İLBANK AŞ, we will provide a total of 30 billion TL of financial support for infrastructure projects of local governments in the next 5 years.
Our priority is to turn our cities into safer and more peaceful places to live.
In this context, the cooperation of central and local governments in the fight against harmful substance habits that threaten the future of our youth will be increased and this issue will be tackled with determination.
Every measure will be taken to turn our streets and parks into safer places.
Police and local government cooperation will be further increased to make schools and their surroundings even safer for our children.
Instead of vertical architecture that oppresses people, horizontal architecture that integrates with people will be taken as a basis.
In city centers and places with historical texture, the design and materials to be used will be made compulsory with plan notes in accordance with the historical and natural texture of our cities.
We will ensure coherence between macro plans at the country and regional level and spatial strategic plans at the city scale.
Design principles will be determined by taking into account the geography, climate, historical background and topography of the city in the plans prepared while creating new living spaces.
We will prepare the necessary technical infrastructure to effectively implement green building and green zone criteria in all our cities.
Many different models will be implemented together to solve the parking problem that makes life difficult in our cities and this problem will be reduced to the lowest possible level.
In parallel with the development of the city, public transportation, especially the rail system, will be prioritized in transportation.
Building renovation will be given higher priority against the threat of earthquakes.
An incentive system will be established for the construction of green buildings that can use their own energy with maximum efficiency.
Mechanisms will be established to support municipalities in combating harmful emissions, especially carbon emissions, in their cities.
A performance monitoring system will be established to improve the financial, administrative and executive activity performance of municipalities.
By establishing strong coordination between our municipalities and the relevant central administration, it will be ensured that our municipalities play a more effective role in all areas concerning the city and its citizens, from health to education, from employment to the development of economic life.
Our goal is to make our cities safer, more peaceful and more productive.
Spatial Planning and Zoning
As AK Party, with the awareness of planning the cities of the future from today and carrying the responsibility on our shoulders, our basic principle is to make our people and their needs the focus of the city; to transform our cities into quality living spaces where more peaceful, happier and more self-confident people live.
Far from imitation and repetition, we will attach great importance to original designs that will highlight the identity of the city while creating new living spaces in addition to our historical city centers where our traditional architecture and accumulation from the past are preserved and kept alive.
We have an understanding that expresses the city not only as a collection of buildings, but also with the integrity and diversity of open and green space uses and public spaces, thus prioritizing our common living spaces.
In this direction, we will continue our work without slowing down to achieve our goal of Cleaner, Greener, More Accessible, More Peaceful "Cities with Identity".
a. What We Did
Our vision of the city is also our vision of civilization.
Our urban heritage is also our civilization accumulation.
As AK Party, we attach special importance to the zoning of our cities with this understanding.
We have implemented very important institutional and administrative arrangements.
In 2011, we established the Ministry of Environment and Urbanization and ensured that urbanism is handled as a whole.
We have implemented the building inspection system.
We are effectively implementing it in 81 provinces.
With the Construction Materials Regulation, we ensured that materials used in buildings are produced and applied safely and in accordance with standards.
With the Parking Regulation, we solved the parking problem and ensured that the parking needs of buildings are determined according to current conditions.
With the Regulation on the Protection of Buildings against Noise and the Regulation on Thermal Insulation in Buildings, we ensured that people live in safe buildings, earthquake and fire safety is ensured in buildings, and the negative effects of buildings on people's mental and physical health are minimized.
By introducing the obligation to obtain an Energy Identity Certificate, we have made significant progress in energy efficiency in buildings.
Within this framework, we issued energy identity certificates to over 720 thousand buildings.
In this way, we expect to reduce our current account deficit by approximately 3 billion dollars by 2023 by achieving 40 percent energy savings in all our newly constructed buildings.
We removed the obstacles to the application of Solar Energy Panels in Buildings.
We abolished the obligation to obtain the consent of the floor owners and to issue a building license.
Thus, we will make maximum use of solar energy, which is environmentally friendly and provides clean energy.
We will expand the use of photovoltaic solar panels on the roofs of buildings, thereby reducing the price paid for energy imports.
With the Planned Areas Zoning Regulation, we put an end to practices that allowed the mixed use of more than one zoning regulation.
We reduced the number of signatures on the building license from 20 to 1.
Thus, we reduced bureaucracy and shortened construction permit processes.
With the Regulation on the Construction of Spatial Plans, we increased the green area requirement from 10 square meters per capita to 15 square meters.
We ensured that bicycles are used for transportation.
We reduced carbon emissions by integrating bicycle lanes into transportation.
We set the basic principles in zoning practices, emphasized horizontal construction instead of vertical, and accelerated investments by reducing bureaucratic obstacles.
We worked to encourage local and horizontal construction.
We are promoting a planning approach that focuses on the whole rather than the parts, is participatory rather than closed, and strengthens monitoring, follow-up and evaluation.
For sustainable spatial development, we are developing physical planning strategies that are polycentric, support public transportation, accessible, safe, energy efficient and participatory.
We are increasing the zoning and planning capacities of local governments.
We are developing methods for conservation and renewal areas that will not increase density and height.
We are creating programs and incentive mechanisms for the joint preservation and development of urban and rural identity.
As of 2018, we have completed 99 percent of the environmental layout plan studies throughout our country, compared to 5 percent in 2002. As of
2018, we have completed 99 percent of the coastal edge line determination studies, excluding military prohibited areas, compared to 22 percent in 2002.
While there was no work on Integrated Coastal Areas Planning until 2002, we have completed approximately 82 percent of it as of 2018.
We produced orthophoto maps.
We have established a national geographic data portal so that all geographic data can be accessed from a single point.
In all our provinces and districts, we have produced real orthophoto maps with very high resolution (10 cm) and made them available to municipalities and public institutions free of charge.
We created the basis for geographical information system applications.
We prevented duplication of resources in this area.
We have determined the new urbanization vision of our country in a participatory manner within the framework of developing and changing conditions.
We have completed projects in accordance with the local architecture of
In 40 provinces, we have completed projects in accordance with their local architecture and offered them to our citizens free of charge.
Within the scope of the Housing Law, we delivered 1,402 houses to the rightful owners.
Since 2003, we have completed 4,236 public service buildings and projects with a cost of approximately 12 billion TL.
We expanded the use of technology in land registry and cadastre related transactions and reduced bureaucracy.
By completing the Land Registry Cadastre Information System Project (TAKBIS), we started to provide land registry services through the e-government gate, independent of the location of the real estate.
With the electronic title deed application, we enabled our citizens to complete the title deed transfer process within 5 minutes by applying electronically.
In addition, we reduced bureaucracy in the land registry with e-mortgage, e-assessment, e-representation, e-authorization certificate applications, and paved the way for investments.
While cadastral works were carried out in 38,796 units from the foundation of the Republic until 2002, as of 2018, we have completed the first facility cadastre across the country.
We continue to carry out activities to make the cadastral works carried out in the past years compatible with today's technology.
With the Spatial Real Estate System (MEGSIS), we enabled our citizens to access basic information electronically using the Parcel Inquiry Application.
We are rebuilding our regions damaged by terrorism.
We are completing damaged and destroyed structures and damaged social and physical infrastructure.
We are investing a total of 10 billion TL in the region.
Where construction works were completed, we handed over the houses to the rightful owners.
We are completing the construction of a total of 26 thousand houses, approximately 2 thousand km of infrastructure, 10 mosques, 10 condolence houses, landscaping in 3 different areas, 1 high school and 2 primary schools in the region.
We have made an arrangement on the evaluation and sale of the lands that have lost their forest quality, known as 2/B in the public opinion.
With the regulation, we have solved an issue that could not be solved for 40 years and brought citizens and the State face to face.
In this context, a total of 517 thousand immovable properties from 2/B lands were sold and 724 thousand eligible citizens received their title deeds.
b. What We Will Do
In the period ahead, we will continue to transform our cities into places that embrace and embrace every person, regardless of their social and economic status.
By activating the aesthetic boards, we will expand the coordination of city identity studies.
We will prepare "Urban Design Guides" suitable for the climate, geographical features, history, unique architectural texture and aesthetics of each city.
We will carry out activities to increase their sense of belonging to the city.
We will focus on neighborhood, family and neighborhood culture and our social values.
We will support local governments to prepare plans and projects that emphasize the concept of neighborhoods and streets and take into account the cultural and social fabric; we will revitalize the identity of our cities.
We will support projects that aim to create culture and art spaces at the neighborhood scale and to bring historical buildings to life by assuming such new functions.
We will implement methods that will encourage our citizens to ensure that civil architecture examples that keep the traditional neighborhood culture alive are restored and brought to life.
We will not allow architectural applications that will put pressure on the historical texture in city centers.
We will support approaches that will enable pedestrian circulation in historic city centers and free these areas from vehicle traffic.
We will balance macro plans at the national and regional level with spatial strategic plans at the city level.
We will approach our cities with an understanding that will take the opinions of those living in that city and prioritize common sense when making important decisions about the city.
We will create livable environments for all our children by adopting a child-friendly city approach.
We will establish an Urbanism Research Center.
We will establish R&D and investment support mechanisms to ensure domestic production of innovative and environmentally friendly products and solutions at international standards.
We established "Bizim Şehir Project Center" as the operational unit of the New Urbanism Vision.
With Bizim Şehir Project Center, we will implement our New Urbanism Vision in cooperation with local governments.
We will complete local architecture projects for rural settlements in 81 provinces.
We will improve market surveillance and control systems.
We will provide zoning peace with the Building Registration Certificate.
With the zoning peace, we will issue a building registration certificate to buildings that are not zoned or not built in accordance with the zoning, without any changes to the existing structure.
Thanks to this document, which will be valid for zoning or title deed purchases or urban transformation for a symbolic fee of 3 percent over the current real estate value, we will solve the problems of millions of our citizens regarding zoning, ownership, electricity, water and infrastructure.
We will eliminate the grievances arising from zoning in metropolitan areas where villages have turned into neighborhoods.
With the Rural Area Zoning regulation, we will provide convenience in the fees to be collected in the license and permit applications of our citizens in these areas by introducing the definition of rural settlement areas in the areas transformed from villages to neighborhoods.
We will deliver 2,750 houses to the rightful owners within the scope of the Housing Law.
Our citizens can access all geographical data of Public Institutions from a single point with the National Geographical Data Portal we have put into service.
We provided high-resolution (10 cm) map bases of our cities to our municipalities free of charge.
With ongoing investments, our municipalities will be able to use their resources more for citizen-oriented services.
With our National Geographic Information Strategy and Action Plan and National Smart Cities Strategy and Action Plan, we are building smart cities on geographic information technologies.
We will transform our cities into Smart Cities with local-national solutions and technologies.
We will make life easier for citizens with smart city applications and Urban Information Systems.
We ensure that each of our citizens benefit from the opportunities of Urban Information Systems with cloud technology.
We will promote smart city solutions such as energy, street lighting, electric charging infrastructure, renewable resources and smart building technology.
We will develop environmentally friendly cities.
With the Green Certificate System, we will ensure the certification of sustainable green buildings and settlements.
We will create a new "green public space planning approach".
We will create active green spaces in proportion to the building density in the neighborhood, independent of building-scale green space practices.
We will determine a "tree inventory" at the neighborhood scale and monitor it periodically.
Buildings will be provided with Energy Identity Certificates and energy efficiency in buildings will be increased.
In this context, 1.4 million buildings will be provided with energy identity certificates by the end of the 5-year period.
Urban Transformation and Housing
Our approach to urban transformation is to develop our goal of transforming our cities, which have been experiencing great difficulties for many years due to migration, slums, unplanned construction, lack of resources and legal problems, into "livable" and "brand" cities, and we attach importance to planning "Strategic Priority Transformations" for each city, taking into account the city's population projections, seismicity, migration data and sociological data.
We continue to realize our approach, which takes into account the sociological transformation that urban transformation brings with it, based on the fact that urban transformation is not only a spatial transformation, with the contribution of interdisciplinary perspectives.
As AK Party, we aim to ensure that our cities serve the development of the country in a quality manner with their economy, culture, historical heritage, tourism and agriculture by setting long-term visions for each of our cities, and we see urban transformation as a path to civilization where development is combined with aesthetics.
a. What We Did
We see urban transformation as vital for improving the quality of life of our people.
In this context, with the legal regulation made in 2012, we initiated urban transformation works to make settlements ready for disasters.
We carried out the risky building assessment of 176,953 buildings across the country by the licensed institutions, and completed the assessment of 567,896 independent units including residences and workplaces.
In 27 provinces, we identified 87 Reserve Building Areas of 75 thousand hectares in size to be used as new settlement areas.
Within the scope of urban transformation projects, we used a total of 6.5 billion TL in rent assistance, project and interest support.
We are continuing our preparations to update the urban transformation legislation in order to carry out urban transformation practices more effectively and rapidly and to increase the number of buildings and areas transformed.
In addition to reducing disaster risks in urban transformation, we have carried out efforts to develop an urban development with an identity based on basic principles and standards.
We started working quickly to alleviate the suffering of our citizens in Diyarbakır-Sur, Şırnak-Center, İdil, Silopi, Cizre, Mardin-Nusaybin and Hakkari Yüksekova, which were damaged by terrorist acts, and we have made significant progress.
A total of 77,662 buildings were damaged in the incidents.
In these regions, we are building a total of 26,551 houses, 1,500 of which are stone houses according to local architecture in Suriçi, Diyarbakır.
We provided approximately 942 million TL support to our damaged citizens in the form of furniture, rent and damage costs.
We have created new and livable cities by eliminating the damages of terrorism with our work.
With the investments made and ongoing, we are ensuring that this region is known not for terrorism, but for economic development, tourism, agricultural production and its ancient urban heritage.
b. What We Will Do
As AK Party, we aim to create peaceful cities with a high quality of life where basic urban services are provided in a fair and accessible manner.
We attach importance to the creation of a 2023 vision specific to each city, in which the characteristics and expectations that make cities different from each other are evaluated together.
We will pay special attention to the realization of new developments in ancient cities without losing their main character and to the creation of new living spaces with this sensitivity.
We will encourage projects that do not ignore the hidden history and centuries of experience, preserve our deep-rooted values, carry aesthetic concerns, and put people and nature at the center.
In addition to urban transformation, we will support projects that will ensure that concepts such as Urban Renewal, Urban Sanitation, Urban Revitalization are implemented in accordance with their meaning.
We will continue our support for the industrial buildings that are idle in the city to become spaces that will contribute to the city's culture and art life within the framework of industrial transformation projects.
We will ensure that the historical accumulation of the city's important personalities and common memory is embedded in the educational materials of children growing up in that city, starting from pre-school education.
We will establish "design workshops" for young people and children to raise awareness of urbanity.
We will support the selection of local materials and Traditional Architecture practices.
We will increase the number and quality of spatial arrangements such as public open and green areas, city parks and squares, which are common use areas for different segments of the city.
In the Urban Transformation process; we will protect all our values related to human, time and space and reflect them in the design.
By adopting the principle of on-site transformation, we will produce spatial solutions that take into account the needs of the existing social structure.
By encouraging area-based transformation, we will create qualified living spaces with planned infrastructure.
Within the scope of preparation for disaster risks, we have made an arrangement for the issuance of "Building Registration Certificate" in order to register buildings without a license or in violation of the license and its annexes and to ensure zoning peace.
We will take all kinds of measures for the planned development of our cities by considering the Building Registration Certificate as a milestone.
In order to transform 7.5 million houses, which are foreseen to pose a danger to our security of life and property, we aim to renovate 500 thousand houses, 150-200 thousand of which will be in Istanbul, in the next 15 years.
With the works we carry out in Diyarbakır Suriçi, we bring the historical and cultural value of the region to the forefront and restore Suriçi to the value it deserves with the buildings built in accordance with the local architecture.
With its city walls, Hevsel Gardens and Kırklar Mountain, Diyarbakır is on the UNESCO World Cultural Heritage List and we are reinforcing its status as the most important center of attraction in the Southeast.
We will take steps to strengthen administrative and institutional capacity.
By preparing a new urban planning law, we will set out the basic principles and standards on land use, physical planning, implementation and construction in order to ensure that our cities develop in a planned and healthy structure.
We will prepare a framework law on urban transformation practices and ensure that these practices are carried out in a single and holistic manner.
We will increase the financing opportunities of local administrations by improving their institutional capacities for zoning implementations.
We will continue to support social housing projects.
We will complete the reconstruction of our regions affected by terrorism by renewing their infrastructure and superstructure.
We will continue to support social housing projects to meet the housing needs of low-income and disadvantaged groups such as the disabled, the elderly, the retired, women, youth and the homeless.
Urban Infrastructure
As AK Party, we have placed human health and peace of mind first at the center of our urban policy.
With this understanding, we are committed to improving the quality of life of our citizens in the city.
We recognize that our citizens can live peacefully and prosperously in cities only with a strong urban infrastructure.
With this approach, providing accessible, complete, high quality, healthy and affordable infrastructure services are our indispensable principles.
a. What We Did
As AK Party, we consider cities with strong infrastructure and quality of life among our priorities and we show this sensitivity with our investments in this field.
We have achieved tremendous success in the supply and management of drinking and potable water in our cities.
In 2008, we prepared Drinking Water Action Plans for 81 provinces to ensure uninterrupted supply of drinking and potable water in the long term.
We have prepared Basin Protection Action Plans for 25 basins to ensure more efficient management of water in terms of quality and quantity.
We launched the SUKAP program in 2011 to provide resources for drinking water and sewerage projects that are urgent but difficult to finance.
With the program, we provided 50 percent central budget grants for drinking water and sewerage projects in settlements with a population below 25 thousand.
We allocated 3.9 billion TL from the central budget to SUKAP.
Within the scope of the project, we have completed 803 projects costing 3.2 billion TL and 436 projects costing 5 billion TL are ongoing.
With our drinking water investments, we have solved the drinking water problems of all our cities, especially Istanbul, Ankara, Izmir, Bursa, Mersin, Erzurum, Şanlıurfa, Diyarbakır and Mardin, on a long-term basis.
We have also planned the long-term drinking water needs of 81 provinces.
With our efforts, we did not leave our cities without water even during the great drought we experienced in 2014.
In order to meet the long-term drinking water needs of Istanbul, we have completed the first 2 phases of the Melen Project, the largest drinking water project in the history of the Republic.
We realize different projects separately to provide drinking water to Istanbul.
We completed the Gördes Dam in 2009 to provide drinking water to İzmir.
106.5 km of transmission lines were also constructed, providing 59 million m3 of drinking water.
In order to meet Ankara's long-term water demand, 226 million m3/year of water from near Gerede will be transferred to Çamlıdere Dam by gravity through a 32 km tunnel with a diameter of 4.5 meters.
Within the scope of the "Ergene Basin Protection Action Plan", we are carrying out a total of 13 domestic wastewater treatment plant (WWTP) projects, 12 by DSİ and 1 with EU resources.
In order to incentivize wastewater treatment plant managements, we provide 50 percent of the energy costs of wastewater treatment plants operated in accordance with the legislation.
In order to encourage wastewater treatment plants, we paid 280 million TL from the central budget for energy costs in 2011-2017.
In 2011, we established the General Directorate of Water Management, the Water Institute of Turkey and the General Directorate of Infrastructure Services.
We removed the criterion for the General Directorate of State Hydraulic Works to carry out drinking water projects for settlements with a population over 100 thousand.
We started to work on the construction of sewerage and wastewater treatment plants on a basin basis.
In order to protect the environment and human health, we gave great importance to solid waste management and accelerated the construction of sanitary landfill facilities.
Between 2003 and 2018, we provided 1 billion 590 million TL from the central budget for 12,631 projects for local governments' efforts to eliminate environmental pollution.
On the other hand, we accelerated our recycling and recycling activities with the increase in awareness and environmental consciousness regarding recycling and recycling.
b. What We Will Do
In the coming period, we will accelerate urban infrastructure works to improve the quality of life of our citizens and we will complete the basic infrastructure requirements in our cities within the framework of our vision of livable spaces.
We will further strengthen the water management framework.
We will eliminate deficiencies and ambiguities in the legislation on water management and clarify the duties, authorities and responsibilities of institutions.
We will improve cooperation and coordination among all relevant institutions and organizations.
We will ensure financial sustainability in the provision of drinking water and sewerage investments and services.
In order to encourage wastewater treatment plants, we will provide 350 million TL from the central budget to municipalities for energy costs in the next 5 years.
We will evaluate the impacts of climate change and all activities in water basins on water quantity and quality, and take necessary measures in basins, especially in saving water, combating drought and preventing pollution.
Within the principles of the Solid Waste Master Plan, we will finance the solid waste facilities of local governments at the feasibility, project and implementation stages through a structure similar to SUKAP.
Launched in 2017, the Zero Waste Project aims to be an exemplary country all over the world.
With the project, we will separate and recycle waste at the point where it is found.
Thus, we will prevent environmental pollution and provide raw materials to our industry and added value to our economy thanks to the products obtained.
With the infrastructure to be established across the country, we will recycle plastic, paper-cardboard, glass, metal waste, waste batteries and electronic waste by collecting them separately.
We will produce biodiesel from vegetable waste oil and turn organic waste such as food preparation and park-garden waste into compost.
With the project, we aim to provide employment for 20 thousand people and an annual gain of 12 billion TL to our economy.
We will provide 1 billion 100 million TL from the central budget to our local governments in the next 5 years for efforts to eliminate environmental pollution.
Disaster Management
For us as AK Party, human life is the top priority in our country and in every corner of our world.
We see it as a humanitarian responsibility to ensure first the safety of life and then the safety of property of our citizens and all the people we can reach.
Our basic service principle in this field is to protect our citizens from natural disasters and situations requiring urgent intervention and to make efforts to ensure that they are prepared for disasters by gaining the necessary awareness.
a. What We Did
We strengthened our institutional capacity.
We established the Disaster and Emergency Management (AFAD) Presidency in 2009 in order to make disaster and emergency services more effective and to end the confusion of authority between institutions.
We established the Turkish Disaster Response System.
With the Turkey Disaster Response Plan, we have defined the roles and responsibilities of all public, civil, private sector institutions and organizations in order to be "prepared for minute zero".
We ended the confusion of authority and coordination in disaster response.
Demonstrating an unprecedented level of disaster management, we rapidly responded to the earthquakes in Elazığ, Van and Kütahya, the Soma mine accident and many other disasters such as floods and landslides in our country.
We renewed our equipment according to the requirements of the age and established logistics de-polarization.
We have put into service a large number of light and heavy tonnage, fully equipped rescue vehicles.
In order to ensure effective and rapid response after disasters, we have completed and put into operation logistics warehouses in 25 provinces in order to reach all of Turkey for the storage of tents and tent materials in order to provide shelter services.
We made the best use of technology and put it at the service of our citizens.
With the Disaster Management and Decision Support System (AYDES), an internet-based software application that we will use in disaster management, we have created a system built on geographical information systems and decision support mechanisms that can effectively manage all resources in the event of a disaster, which will be an example for other countries.
We upgraded AFAD's earthquake monitoring network to one of the world's leading networks with its high standard infrastructure.
In order to monitor the physical activity that may occur before and during the possible Marmara Earthquake, we installed 7 deep well seismic stations at a depth of 300 meters and started the data flow.
We are the second country in the world to implement this project.
We made AFAD DEPREM Mobile Application for smart phones and tablets available to our citizens in order to inform the public about earthquakes.
In this way, we ensured that our citizens have instant access to fast and reliable information.
We urgently fulfilled the needs of our provinces and citizens affected by disasters.
After the 2011 earthquakes in Van, we built 17,489 houses through TOKİ for 30,756 beneficiaries and 8,735 houses in our villages through the Help to Build (EYY) system, totaling 26,224 houses and 128 workplaces.
We also completed the construction of 4 hospitals, 20 primary schools, 14 high schools, 34 mosques, 17 trade centers, 2 health centers, 9 family health centers and 1 village hall in and around Van province.
Before the permanent residences, for which approximately 3 billion TL was spent, were handed over to their rightful owners, we met Van's water needs until 2060 by bringing spring water from a distance of 47 kilometers to the region.
We allocated a total of 5 billion 356 million liras for the construction of the new Van.
We completed the construction of 602 houses for the families of the workers who lost their lives after the tragic mining accident in Soma in 2014 and delivered them to the families.
We increased the awareness of our citizens against disasters.
We reached nearly ten million citizens within the framework of the "Disaster Ready Turkey" campaign.
Within the scope of this campaign, we are conducting "Disaster Ready Family", "Disaster Ready School", "Disaster Ready Workplace", "Disaster Ready Youth" and "Disaster Ready Media" projects.
We put into force the "Turkey Earthquake Hazard Map and Turkey Building Earthquake Regulation", which will contribute to the earthquake-resistant construction and earthquake-resistant urbanization of our country for the future.
We have extended our humanitarian aid activities beyond Turkey, and we provide aid to more than 50 countries around the world.
Under AFAD's coordination, we have recently carried out more than 500 domestic and international humanitarian and emergency aid activities.
We have provided humanitarian aid to many countries from Syria to Palestine, Albania to Kyrgyzstan, Pakistan to Myanmar, Somalia to Afghanistan, Bosnia-Herzegovina to Iraq.
As a model country for international aid, we have stood by the people of Gaza under severe attacks.
Syrian children learned the language of knowledge, not war, with us.
We carried out the largest evacuation operation from Libya.
As a result of the difficulties in Somalia, we sent more than 40 thousand tons of humanitarian aid materials to Somalia with 19 planes and 10 ships under the coordination of AFAD.
We have not forgotten our Pakistani brothers and sisters who were exposed to floods.
As a result of the events that took place on August 25, 2017, our humanitarian assistance continues in Bangladesh, where approximately 900 thousand Arakanese people were displaced and became refugees.
After the Jarabulus and Cobanbey Regions in northern Syria were cleared of terrorist elements with the Euphrates Shield Operation, migration from various parts of Syria and our country to the safe area created by the Operation Euphrates Shield, the population of the region has exceeded 1 million.
Since January 2017, we have delivered approximately 178 million TL worth of humanitarian aid to the Euphrates Shield Region with 3,264 trucks from our Çobanbey AFAD Logistics Center.
We have been carrying out humanitarian aid activities for those in need in Afrin since 29.01.2018 by the Turkish Red Crescent and NGO teams under the coordination of AFAD.
b. What We Will Do
Our goal in disaster management is to create a disaster-resilient country and society by completing the transformation in disaster management initiated under the coordination of AFAD.
We will define the disaster management framework with the Turkey Disaster Management Strategy Document and Action Plan (TAYSB).
In this context, we will ensure coordination among ministries, institutions and organizations and national support to localities through plans such as risk reduction plan, improvement plan and national radiation emergency plan.
We will expand the information, warning and alarm system established to deliver news of enemy attacks and disaster and emergency threats to the people and institutions living in threatened settlements throughout the country.
Launched in 2016, the Chemical, Biological, Radioactive and Nuclear (CBRN) Capacity Development Project will maximize our response capacity in order to effectively respond to an incident that may occur throughout the country and affect the civilian population and to minimize the damage that may occur.
This project aims to establish a standard CBRN management model for Turkey.
With the "Technological Disasters Roadmap Document" covering eight different technological disasters we have prepared, we will monitor all processes for the targets and requirements between 2014 and 2023.
We will implement the principle of voluntary response to disasters together with all segments of the society.
In this context; with AFAD Volunteering system, we will ensure that people who want to take part as volunteers in any phase of disaster management are included in the process in line with certain standards, certified, their capacities are increased through trainings and their performances within the volunteering system are monitored.
We will deliver houses to disaster victims in earthquake-hit Çanakkale and Adıyaman.
In Çanakkale-Ayvacık and Adıyaman-Samsat districts, we have enacted legal arrangements so that disaster victims can recover and have permanent housing.
We will deliver 604 houses in Ayvacık, Çanakkale and 1,740 houses in Samsat, Adıyaman in 2018.
By further strengthening our technological and logistics infrastructure, we will increase our speed and mobility in combating disasters.
We will implement the "Uninterrupted and Secure Communication System" Project and create a comprehensive infrastructure capable of providing voice and data communication by alternatively using fiber infrastructure, GSM, radio and satellite connections.
We will establish the AFAD Data Center, where satellite phones distributed throughout the country, radio infrastructures established, earthquake data, data produced in disasters and emergencies, and AFAD's corporate data will be kept, and which provides service from a single center, and the Turkish Disaster and Emergency Management Operation Center to be used in case of disaster.
In 56 provinces where there are no logistics warehouses, we will establish pocket warehouses where shelter materials are stocked in order to provide temporary shelter for disaster victims in case of disasters and emergencies.
We will carry our AYDES software, which is built on geographical information systems and has decision support mechanisms that can effectively manage all resources in the event of a disaster, to the mobile platform.
In this way, a faster and more dynamic system will be created by all teams as mobile in case of a disaster.
Balanced Distribution of Prosperity across Regions
Our main goal is to reduce the development disparities between the regions of our country and to ensure total development by bringing living standards closer together.
In the period ahead, we will transform Turkey into a country where regional development disparities are reduced, welfare is spread more evenly across the country, and economic and social integration is strengthened.
Regional Development
With our more inclusive, equitable and participatory development approach, we see it as a fundamental task to increase the competitiveness of all regions, particularly underdeveloped regions, in a qualified manner and to mobilize local potential.
In this framework, we are developing our new regional policy on the axis of equity and competition.
a. What We Did
As a result of the policies and practices we developed during our AK Party governments, we reduced the income imbalance between regions.
We reduced the gap between the highest and lowest level 2 regions in terms of national income per capita from 4.7 times in 2004 to 4 times in 2014.
For the first time, we prepared the National Strategy for Regional Development (2014-2023) in order to determine general policies and priorities at national level in the field of regional development.
In order to identify socio-economic development trends and potentials at the regional level, we prepared regional plans covering all regions of our country, first for the period 2010-2013 and then for the period 2014-2023.
We strengthened the governance of regional development policy.
To this end, we have established the necessary institutional structures for the effective implementation of regional development policies at central and local levels.
We established the High Council for Regional Development (HSRD) to determine general policies and priorities at the national level in the field of regional development and the Regional Development Committee (RDC) to ensure coordination and cooperation among institutions on regional development.
At the regional level, in addition to GAP Regional Development Administration (GAP RDA), we established Konya Plain Project (KOP) RDA, Eastern Anatolia Project (DAP) RDA, Eastern Black Sea Project (DOKAP) RDA in 2011.
We completed the GAP, KOP, DAP and DOKAP Action Plans covering the 2014-2018 period to ensure that the projects and activities of relevant institutions and organizations are carried out in harmony, integrity and coordination.
We established development agencies in 26 regions as a new regional development platform.
Our Development Agencies carry out planning, research and analysis studies in order to accelerate regional development, reduce inter-regional and intra-regional development differences, promote the potentials and investment opportunities of the regions, help to establish cooperation and partnerships, and implement Financial Support Programs in line with the priorities determined in regional plans.
Within the scope of Financial Support Programs, starting from 2008 until the end of 2017, we supported 8,922 projects out of a total of 39,689 project applications.
The amount we have allocated to these projects is 2.6 billion TL and the total budget amount including co-financing is 4.6 billion TL.
We have established Investment Support Offices (ISOs) in 81 provinces within the agencies. Investment support offices continue their activities to attract investors by promoting the business and investment environment of their provinces, and to inform and support entrepreneurs at every stage of investment.
Through our Investment Support Offices, we have carried out approximately 4,500 research and analysis, 48,000 information and consultancy, 13,000 promotion, promotion and organization activities.
With the incentive system, we made important arrangements to reduce regional development differences.
In terms of support elements, we gave the largest share to the provinces in the 5th and 6th Regions.
We reduced corporate tax rates for investments realized in these Zones.
Since the entry into force of the Investment Incentive System, the amount of fixed investment envisaged for investments to be made in our 5th and 6th Regions has reached 31.7 billion TL and the employment foreseen within the scope of incentivized investments has reached approximately 133.7 thousand.
We are preparing a regional venture capital model and legislation to support entrepreneurs in need of financing with high growth potential.
We worked in cooperation with international organizations in analyzing our regional development policies.
We worked on a Cluster Governance Model for the effective implementation of clustering policies.
We ensured that 81 clusters were analyzed by the Agencies using the Cluster Identification Guide we prepared in cooperation with the UN Development Program.
In order to reach the production, export and value-added increase targets set out in the sector strategies, we carried out the Development of Regional Competitiveness Project together with the OECD to conduct regional competitiveness analyses and set regional targets.
We launched the Regional Investment Climate Assessment Project with the World Bank to assess the investment climate at national and regional level and to improve institutional capacity.
Within the framework of the EU Chapter on Regional Development and Coordination of Structural Instruments, our efforts for the effective use of pre-accession financial assistance continue.
Within the scope of the Attraction Centers Support Program, which we have implemented in Adana, Diyarbakır, Elazığ, Erzurum, Gaziantep, Malatya, Mardin, Mersin, Şanlıurfa and Van, we have so far allocated approximately 427 million TL to projects mostly aimed at supporting cultural tourism infrastructure.
We have implemented cross-border cooperation programs for neighboring countries.
b. What We Will Do
As AK Party, in the coming period, within the framework of the goal of a more balanced and fully developed Turkey, we will reduce regional development disparities, spread welfare more evenly across the country, strengthen economic and social integration, and increase the competitiveness of all regions.
We will pay special attention to regional development policies for more inclusive, equitable and participatory development.
We will ensure that development policies are differentiated according to the characteristics and needs of settlements, and create a multi-centered and balanced settlement system across the country.
Improving minimum living standards in low-income provinces and strengthening their integration into the national economic and social structure,
to improve the quality of basic infrastructure and services
and we will implement policies to ensure capital accumulation to promote economic development.
In relatively low-income regions, we will support centers that will play a driving role in development and ensure more balanced development across the country, and ensure that the progress made by these cities is transferred to the surrounding regions over time.
In provinces at the medium development level, we will focus on supporting entrepreneurship, improving urban standards, strengthening city image, and developing human and social capital.
We will develop growth centers in Anatolia.
We will ensure the balanced development of industry across the country and better utilization of existing domestic potentials, and create competitive cities in Anatolia.
We will ensure that these cities have an ecosystem that attracts productive investments and skilled labor.
We will increase the competitiveness of metropolises on a global scale.
We will ensure that metropolitan economies focus on advanced technology, specialized services and cultural sectors.
We will strengthen social cohesion by improving urban infrastructure and urban culture.
We will pursue policies to support the spirit of entrepreneurship in our regions.
We will prepare "entrepreneurship roadmaps" at the provincial level by identifying each region's approach to "effective entrepreneurship" blended with the concept of innovation.
We will establish young entrepreneur centers in Istanbul and Ankara, where different models are tested and adapted to the regions.
We will strengthen the connections of universities with the regions where they are located and ensure that they become centers of knowledge, innovation and technology transfer, primarily serving businesses and institutions in their regions.
We will develop region-specific employment policies and practices to support population retention in regions.
Our Development Agencies will operate as an umbrella organization that sets out a road map for the development of their regions, makes its own decisions, and guides other institutions more actively at regional and provincial level.
We will support development agencies to focus on analysis and research, differentiate themselves by focusing on the potential of their regions and develop strategies.
We will prioritize agencies' efforts to develop human resources at the local level.
We will reduce the processes related to agency support and diversify support mechanisms with new tools.
Taking into account the current situation, needs and requirements in the regions, "one-stop office" practices will be implemented within the Investment Support Offices.
Through the agencies, we will ensure that efforts are made to institutionalize family businesses in the regions.
We will carry out system design studies to improve investment support and promotion practices and to activate the activities of development agencies in this field.
We will conduct research and modeling studies that will enable the evaluation and monitoring of the investment climate on a regional scale.
In this context, we will prepare 26 regional investment climate assessment reports and one national investment climate assessment report.
We will ensure that agencies play a more effective role in the management and utilization of European Union Structural Funds and in strengthening cross-border cooperation.
We will enhance international cooperation in regional development.
By strengthening regional cooperation between Turkey's border regions and neighboring countries, we will provide a new opening for development in these regions.
We will prepare and implement a strategy and action plan to improve the institutional capacity of relevant stakeholders within the scope of the European Union Cohesion Fund.
We will prepare the necessary planning documents for the utilization of Structural Funds and create a project pool.
We will establish a comprehensive Monitoring Information System for regional support that will also meet European Union requirements.
Rural Development
As Ak Parti, delivering basic services to our citizens living in rural areas, improving their quality of life and protecting and developing rural life are among our main priorities.
We consider rural development as a phenomenon that provides basic inputs for the nutrition of our cities and our country and adds value to the lands and environment we live on.
We are aware that sustainable development is only possible through rural production and protection.
With this awareness, we aim to enable our rural population to live productively in rural areas by meeting their basic and infrastructure needs.
a. What We Did
During our governments, we launched the biggest rural infrastructure move in the history of the Republic.
We strengthened governance and improved administrative capacity in rural development.
We prepared national rural development strategy documents (NRDS) for Turkey for the first time.
We also prepared the Rural Development Plan (2010-2013) for the first time in our country.
With the legislative amendment, we established the inter-institutional cooperation needed in rural development, which is a multi-sectoral and multi-actor issue, and strengthened the monitoring structure of the Rural Development Plan.
We have established a Rural Development Monitoring Committee, which functions as an advisory body with central and local administrations as principal and non-public sectors as observers.
Within the scope of the "Rural Development Investment Support Program" we launched in 2006, we provided 2 billion TL grants to 7,799 new agricultural facilities with 50 percent grants and provided employment opportunities for 93 thousand people.
In total, we created an annual investment area of approximately 2.3 billion TL in Rural Areas in the 2014-2018 period.
Since 2007, 50 percent grant support has been provided for machinery-equipment purchases.
To date, we have provided 1.2 billion TL grant support for 277 thousand machinery-equipment purchases.
In the 1990-2002 period, 681 cooperatives received 99 million TL in loans, while in the 2003-2017 period, we increased the number of cooperatives granted loans by nearly 3 times and the amount of support by 22 times and supported 1,858 cooperatives with 2.2 billion TL.
In order to improve rural infrastructure and ensure development, we have developed many projects that directly touch the lives of our citizens.
The KÖYDES Project, which we launched in 2005 to address the basic infrastructure needs of villages such as roads and drinking water, has been transformed into an integrated infrastructure program with the inclusion of small-scale irrigation and wastewater works.
We allocated approximately 10.8 billion TL to the project in the 2005-2017 period.
In the 2005-2017 implementation period of the KÖYDES Project, we invested in 213.4 thousand km of roads, including 1.87 thousand km of raw roads, 83.25 thousand km of stabilized roads, 119.1 thousand km of asphalt roads and 3.5 thousand km of concrete roads, and 23.8 million m2 of parquet in village roads and village square arrangements.
With drinking water projects, we provided drinking water to a total of 60,353 units, including 4,642 thirsty and 55,711 units with insufficient water.
With small irrigation investments, we brought 63 thousand hectares of agricultural land under irrigation and 76 thousand farmer families benefited from these irrigation investments.
We invested in 174 units of wastewater.
Within the scope of KIRDES Project, in order to support the rural infrastructure needs (roads, drinking water, irrigation, social facilities) of the provinces with Metropolitan Municipality (except Istanbul and Kocaeli), we provide services to our citizens with projects to be realized in rural areas where villages and towns are transformed into neighborhoods.
In 2017, 579 km of roads, 43 social facilities and 24 infrastructure projects were realized.
A resource of 400 million TL has been allocated for 2018 to be used in the KIRDES Project.
Although the total village road network increased by approximately 30 thousand km in the 2005-2017 period, the ratio of asphalt-concrete roads increased from 30 percent to 43 percent, and the ratio of units with adequate water increased from 81 percent to 92 percent.
We have established Village Service Provision Unions in almost all districts in order to meet the service and investment needs of villages of local common nature, especially KÖYDES Project applications.
In the 2007-2008 period, we implemented the BELDES Project to meet the small-scale infrastructure needs of municipalities with a population of less than 10 thousand.
The amount of resources we have allocated to the project is approximately 626 million TL.
We supported the projects of beneficiaries under our Return to Village and Rehabilitation Program in the relevant provinces.
We strengthened international cooperation in rural development.
In May 2007, we established the Agriculture and Rural Development Support Institution to manage agriculture and rural development programs to be carried out with funds from the EU and other international organizations.
Under the IPARD-I Program (2007-2013), we offered a total of 3.1 billion TL to investors for rural development.
In this context, we have completed 10,653 projects and invested a total of 6.6 billion TL.
With the supported IPARD projects, we provided new employment opportunities for 60 thousand people.
Since 2011, we have made approximately 509 million TL grant payments to 1,198 women investors with IPARD supports.
b. What We Will Do
As AK Party, we will continue to support the main elements of rural development, especially our villages and villagers in the coming period.
In this context, we will analyze village-based service and investment needs in rural areas.
We will ensure that all rural development programs and projects carried out by central administrations with national resources will have steering committees under the chairmanship of the implementing agency, where relevant institutions will come together for an annual study and field visit.
We will strengthen coherence between central planning and local implementation.
We will ensure that Rural Development Supports are extended to 81 provinces.
We will continue to develop rural tourism infrastructure in regions with high potential for natural and cultural resources.
We will continue to implement rural resettlement projects in a way that respects the local architectural texture.
We will continue the Project for Monitoring the Infrastructure of Villages by conducting KÖYDES studies in order to digitize KÖYDES Project studies on the basis of Geographical Information Systems (GIS).
With KIRBIS (Rural Infrastructure Information System), we will ensure that rural infrastructure inventories in 30 provinces with Metropolitan Municipalities are created in digital form and integrated in the center.
With 81 provinces starting to be supported by ARDSI, we will transform ARDSI into a Payment Agency.
Within the scope of IPARD, we will support an additional 10 thousand new investments with a total new investment of 5.2 billion TL and reach our target of providing 50 thousand new jobs.
We will encourage the retention of the population in rural areas: We will expand agri-food enterprises in rural areas.
We will establish postgraduate education programs in the field of "rural development" at universities.
We will improve rural women's access to economic opportunities and their integration into the development process.
In order to prevent migration in rural areas, we will create regional life centers (sports fields, entertainment center, restaurant, etc.) that will provide common services to 4-5 villages.
FOREIGN POLICY AND NATIONAL SECURITY
Since the first day we came to power as AK Party, we have based our foreign policy on the axis of equity.
Our foreign policy was based on both continuity and change.
Under our governments, we have provided Turkey with an independent, pro-active foreign policy that generates policies and perspectives.
As AK Party, we aimed to make Turkey a pioneering country.
We acted on the principle of growing our power on the axis of compassion, mercy and justice.
We have adopted the principle of being a country that is integrated with the world in every field, not disconnected from the world.
During our governments, we institutionalized a visionary and realistic foreign policy tradition in line with the interests of our country.
As Turkey, we have endeavored to fulfill our responsibilities for a better political order in the world.
Especially democracy in neighboring regions,
respect for human rights
while supporting the realization of goals such as political stability and economic development,
We have also continued to contribute to solving problems that affect the lives of communities in other parts of the world.
We have expanded the vision of our foreign policy beyond relations between states to relations between societies and citizens.
We encouraged the participation and activities of civil society organizations and citizens in this process.
We have taken the lead in mobilizing the international system to address chronic global and regional challenges.
As an active member of the United Nations system, we have pointed out the problems in this system and proposed solutions.
We believe that a more prosperous, stable and peaceful world must be built in dialogue and cooperation with the other countries of the world, and we consider it our moral duty to assume responsibility and leadership for this purpose.
As Turkey, we have endeavored to go beyond responding to the developments in our region, to determine our position in global issues, to conduct a multidimensional foreign policy that puts people's demands for rights and law at the center, and to sincerely internalize a moral and conscientious approach.
With these efforts, we have become a beacon of hope for the forgotten or marginalized oppressed peoples of the world.
Our country has always been on the side of the righteous, not the powerful; justice and freedom for all the oppressed and victimized people of the world
and defended the ideals of democracy.
Today, Turkey is not a passive spectator in foreign affairs, it is a country that takes initiative and responsibility, not a country that follows other countries.
Whereas before we were a country that followed in the footsteps of other countries and could not even protect its own interests, today we are a country that leads in our region and the world.
In the new period, we will work day and night to fly our glorious flag in every corner of the world and to pursue an effective, result-oriented and conscientious foreign policy in all basins around Turkey.
We will not abandon any brotherly people who pin their hopes on us.
Our foreign policy achievements are driving our economic prosperity forward, primarily by increasing trade and international direct investments
and nurtures our social development based on mutual interaction.
Our diplomatic achievements and increasing international relations create new cooperation opportunities for our country in every field, especially in trade and finance, which contributes significantly to the development of our country.
Turkey-Centered Multidimensional Foreign Policy
Our foreign policy has been and will continue to be vision-based and multidimensional.
We aim to increase the reputation of our country in the coming period with our policies that we implement on a global scale and regional effectiveness through both bilateral and multilateral cooperation and the regional and national collaborations we have established.
and we will continue to contribute more to global development.
a. What We Did
We started accession negotiations to the European Union in 2005.
In this context, 16 out of 35 chapters have been opened for negotiations.
Although many negotiation chapters are ready to be opened or temporarily closed, some member states use our EU accession process for their domestic political ambitions and bring our problems to the EU platform.
In this way, artificial obstacles are being placed in the way of our accession process.
However, in line with our common interests, we continue dialogue and cooperation with the EU in economic, transport, counter-terrorism, energy and political fields, in particular on migration.
In this context, five summit meetings between Turkey and the EU have been held since 2015.
At the Varna Summit with the EU in March 2018, we submitted to the EU a document containing our views and expectations on priority issues for our country.
In order to resolve the differences of opinion and approach that have recently emerged with the US, with which we have deep-rooted alliance relations and close cooperation in a wide geography, on issues closely related to the security of our country, an effective diplomacy has been carried out through regular high-level contacts with US officials, and result-oriented mechanisms have been established.
We attach special importance to our cooperation with Russia, with whom we have shared a common history and geography for centuries, and we are developing our relations.
Especially in the last two years, we have been addressing the developments in our region on the basis of mutual trust and dialogue and developing a common approach to stabilize the region and develop bilateral trade and tourism.
We prioritize the Balkans, we continue the trilateral cooperation mechanisms in this region and the South East Europe cooperation Process.
We aim to strengthen our historical and cultural ties with the Balkans and contribute to their economic development and political stability.
The Turkish Cypriot people's rightful place in the international community has been one of our main priorities.
On the one hand, we have supported all international efforts to establish a lasting and just peace in Cyprus, and on the other hand, we have continued to stand by the Turkish Cypriot people until peace is realized.
We have developed our relations with Ukraine, our strategic partner, not only diplomatically, but also in many other areas such as tourism, trade and culture.
We supported a diplomatic solution to Ukraine's problems on the basis of international law and respect for its territorial integrity.
We have made the necessary diplomatic efforts for the security and welfare of the Crimean Turks with whom we still have strong historical ties.
We supported the efforts to protect the historical rights of Crimean Turks, taking into account the delicate balances in the region.
We continue to strengthen our economic, social and cultural relations with brotherly Azerbaijan within the framework of our one nation, two states approach.
Turkey-Azerbaijan-Georgia, Turkey-Azerbaijan-Iran, Turkey-Azerbaijan-Turkmenistan and Turkey-Azerbaijan-Pakistan trilateral mechanisms we established in the Caucasus have also started to bear fruit.
We expect the Turkey-Azerbaijan-Georgia-Iran quadrilateral mechanism, which is the first quadrilateral mechanism we have launched in this direction, to produce concrete and constructive results.
We have developed close relations with the Turkic Republics in Central Asia not only based on our historical and cultural ties but also economically and politically.
Within the framework of the great importance we attach to the peace, security, stability and prosperity of North Africa and the Middle East geography, with which we have unshakable historical, religious and cultural ties, we have developed and strengthened our friendship and brotherhood relations and cooperation in all fields on the basis of respect for the political unity, territorial integrity and sovereignty of the countries in the region.
Turkey has supported the struggle of the peoples in this geography for human dignity and the rights and freedoms that this dignity requires in a principled manner.
In this context, it has provided much-needed support to countries undergoing democratic transformation and has continued to advocate that inclusive and legitimate governments based on the will of the people are fundamental to ensuring lasting stability.
Until today, while striving for a lasting peace in the Middle East, we have also stood by Palestine in its just cause.
In doing so, we have continued to support a solution based on equal rights in accordance with United Nations Resolutions.
We in no way endorse the recent efforts to unilaterally change the status of Jerusalem.
In this context, we call on the whole world, especially the member states of the Organization of Islamic Cooperation, to oppose this effort that will increase tensions in the Middle East.
We successfully continue our indomitable fight against the scourge of terrorism stemming from the Syrian crisis.
We cleared 4,000 square kilometers of the Turkey-Syria border from DAESH and PKK/PYD/YPG elements.
The goal of our efforts has been to create the conditions for security and stability in these regions to become permanent and never pose a threat to Turkey again.
Ensuring lasting stability and security in our neighbor Iraq is of critical importance for our country.
On the basis of the principle of maintaining the territorial integrity of the country, we further strengthened our relations with the Iraqi central government and continued our diplomatic initiatives to ensure that the rights of our Iraqi Turkmen brothers and sisters are not violated by other ethnic groups in the region.
On the one hand, while taking a firm stance against attempts to disintegrate Iraq, on the other hand, we have given and continue to give the necessary response to the separatist organization that uses Iraqi territory to carry out terrorist activities against our country.
High-level contacts and visits with Iran are intensifying due to our close views on regional issues.
The reconciliation efforts under the Astana Process have also been another factor that has improved the dialogue between the two countries.
The Fourth Meeting of the Turkey-Iran High Level Cooperation Council (HLCC), the first of which was held in Ankara in June 2014, was held in Tehran on October 4, 2017.
Within the framework of the visit, the target of 30 billion dollars for bilateral trade volume was confirmed.
So far, 30 documents have been signed and four Joint Declarations have been adopted in the four meetings of the LCC.
The Fifth Meeting of the Turkey-Iran High Level Cooperation Council (HLCC) is envisaged to be held in Ankara.
On the basis of the High Level Cooperation Council, we aim to develop our bilateral cooperation with Iran primarily in the fields of economy, trade, transport, tourism and energy, and to advance our political dialogue to minimize our differences on regional issues.
We have historic friendship and brotherhood relations with Afghanistan and Pakistan.
The "Turkey-Afghanistan-Pakistan Trilateral Summit Process", which plays an important role in contributing to the stability of these countries and establishing mutual trust and cooperation between them, was established.
Trilateral Summit Process meetings will continue to be hosted.
The "Heart of Asia-Istanbul Process" was established in 2011 under the leadership of our country in order to develop regional cooperation with a focus on Afghanistan.
We will continue to actively participate in the "Heart of Asia-Istanbul Process" and will host the annual conference of Foreign Ministers within the framework of our co-chairmanship of the process in 2018.
The Turkey-Pakistan High Level Strategic Cooperation Council (HLSSC) was established in 2009 to guide our bilateral relations with Pakistan at the highest level and to strengthen our cooperation.
The number of agreements signed within the framework of the CFSP mechanism, the fifth meeting of which was held in Ankara on 23 February 2017, reached 60.
Within the framework of our policy of reaching out to new geographies, our trade volume with Latin America and the Caribbean, with which we have strengthened our commercial and diplomatic ties, has increased nearly 10-fold in the last decade, reaching 35 billion dollars.
We are working to improve our relations and cooperation with African countries.
Our aim is to develop our bilateral relations on a win-win basis, to support the development of Africa, which has been left behind for centuries, and to help it take its rightful place in the international community.
We increased the number of our embassies to 135, the number of TIKA representative offices to 60, made THY the airline with the highest number of destinations in Africa, and increased the number of schools operated by our Maarif Foundation in Africa to 116.
Together with the African Union, we organized sectoral meetings in areas such as economy, health and education.
We have taken important steps to strengthen our relations with the Asia Pacific region.
We strengthened the representation of our country by opening embassies in all the countries of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN).
Following Malaysia and Indonesia, we upgraded our relations with Singapore to Strategic Partnership.
We established institutional cooperation with ASEAN through the establishment of a Sectoral Dialogue Partnership.
We played a leading role in bringing the violence against the Muslim Rohinga community in Myanmar to the international agenda and providing humanitarian assistance to Rohinga refugees seeking asylum in Bangladesh.
We established hospitals and health centers in the camps.
The United Nations Organization, of which we are a founding member, is the most comprehensive international platform that gathers 193 countries from every geography under its roof, despite its current problems and shortcomings.
Turkey makes significant contributions to UN activities, particularly conflict prevention and resolution, peacekeeping, development and humanitarian assistance.
Everyone recognizes the need to reform the UN Charter and the bureaucratic structure of the UN Secretariat, in particular the current system that prevents the UN Security Council from taking the necessary steps in matters of peace and security.
Recently, Turkey has been actively supporting reform efforts and has been making persistent efforts to have more Turkish citizens in the UN Secretariat, especially in senior positions.
Our country has also taken important steps towards making Istanbul a UN center, and the necessary legal infrastructure for other UN agencies to open offices in Istanbul is underway.
In 2017, we were elected to the IMO Council of the International Maritime Organization and the UNESCO Executive Board, leaving our competitors behind.
We supported efforts to further strengthen NATO's effectiveness and contribute to the defense of our country against external threats.
We have made active efforts for the organization to act jointly, especially against terrorist activities experienced by member countries.
In the context of the serious and multifaceted security threats Turkey faces today (FETÖ, PKK, DHKP-C and DAESH), we have cooperated without interruption with all relevant international organizations, particularly the United Nations, the Council of Europe and the OSCE, regarding the State of Emergency measures we have taken in the light of the rule of law and in transparency to protect the fundamental rights of our people.
We established the State of Emergency Inquiry Commission.
We ensured that the Commission is recognized as a domestic remedy by the European Court of Human Rights.
We ratified 16 Council of Europe Conventions between 2016 and 2018 with the understanding of creating a domestic law in line with international standards in terms of protection of fundamental rights and freedoms.
We continued to raise our sensitivities on xenophobia, Islamophobia, intolerance and discrimination and the need for global cooperation on these issues in international platforms such as the United Nations, OSCE and Council of Europe.
We attach importance to our relations with the Organization of Islamic Cooperation.
Since the 13th Islamic Summit held in Istanbul on 14-15 April 2016, important activities have been carried out and some new institutions have been established by our country, especially to ensure the implementation of the recommendations made at the Summit.
The "OIC Consultative Women's Council" was established to address the problems of women in the Muslim world and the "OIC Contact Group on Muslims in Europe" was established in the context of increasing racism and anti-Islamism in Europe; the "OIC Police Cooperation and Coordination Centre Charter" was approved in the context of combating organized crime and terrorism; ISESCO Charter was signed by our country; a resolution on the fight against FETÖ was adopted in the OIC; the necessary process for the establishment of the OIC Media Forum in our country was initiated and many sectoral Ministerial meetings of the OIC were hosted.
In the context of the developments on Jerusalem, the "Extraordinary Meeting of the OIC Executive Committee" at the level of Foreign Ministers was held in Istanbul on August 1 upon the call of our country, which is the Chairperson-in-Office of the Summit and the Chairperson of the Executive Committee, and the "Extraordinary Islamic Summit" was held in Istanbul on December 13, 2017 against the US attempt to move its Embassy to Jerusalem.
At the end of the summit, which was held on May 18th, a 30-point declaration was announced against the unilateral efforts to change the status of Jerusalem and against the illegitimate steps taken by Israel.
Jerusalem is our red line.
Palestine is not alone.
Our country actively contributes to the work of the G-20, which has an important role in ensuring global economic stability.
Our G20 Presidency, which we assumed on December 1, 2014, was successfully completed with the Leaders' Summit held in Antalya on November 15-16, 2015.
In 2017, Turkey assumed the Chairmanship-in-Office of MIKTA, which was launched in 2013 as an informal dialogue and cooperation platform between Mexico, Indonesia, South Korea, Turkey and Australia, and organized numerous meetings and events throughout the year.
During our Chairmanship-in-Office of the Organization of the Black Sea Economic Cooperation (BSEC), which was established in 1992 under the leadership of Turkey and is a pioneering regional organization for economic cooperation, the Summit Meeting of Heads of State and Government was held on 22 May 2017 in Istanbul on the occasion of the 25th Anniversary of the establishment of BSEC.
Our quota at the IMF has increased, and for the first time, Turkey was appointed as Executive Director between 2014 and 2016.
Thus, our country has moved from being a country implementing IMF programs to being a decision-making country in the IMF.
As of January 26, 2016, with the entry into force of the 14th General Quota Review, Turkey's quota share increased from 0.61 to 0.98.
Similarly, in order to improve its representation and participation in the World Bank, Turkey's voting power increased from 0.53 percent to 1.09 percent as a result of the capital increase within the scope of the reform efforts initiated in 2008.
As of November 1, 2018, Turkey will again assume the role of Executive Director at the IMF.
With the new "Country Group Agreement" signed on October 10, 2014, Turkey assumed the role of Acting Executive Director at the World Bank between 2014-2016 and will assume the role of Executive Director between 2020 and 2024.
Thus, for the first time under our governments, Turkey will take part in the Board of Executive Directors of the World Bank after the International Monetary Fund (IMF).
b. What We Will Do
We see Turkey's European Union aspiration as a strategic goal.
However, we define our relations with the European Union as a complement, not an alternative, to our other relations.
Turkey continues to pursue its EU accession goal as a strong and influential country that has completed its reform processes in parallel with all the chapters opened and has realized its integration with the EU beyond cooperation in line with its interests.
We want to overcome the problems with the US.
The necessary diplomacy and lobbying activities will be accelerated to ensure that the US takes concrete steps in line with our expectations and sensitivities regarding our national security, especially on the PYD/YPG and FETO issues.
It is essential to maintain close cooperation with the United States.
The main elements of our cooperation are the US withdrawal of support to the PYD/YPG in Syria, concrete support for our fight against the PKK and concrete steps on the extradition of FETÖ.
In the coming period, we will try to develop our bilateral relations with Russia, especially in energy and trade.
We will continue our close coordination with Russia on regional issues and especially on Syria.
We will continue to maintain our good relations with the Balkan countries within the framework of our historical unity and geographical proximity, and we will further tighten bilateral cooperation and partnerships for trade and tourism.
We stand with the Turkish Cypriot people.
We will continue to take decisive steps to strengthen the TRNC's economic infrastructure and increase its welfare.
As a guarantor country, we will continue our constructive contribution to a negotiated, just and lasting settlement in Cyprus based on the political will of both peoples and their shared ownership of the island.
We are determined to continue developing our relations with Ukraine in all areas.
We will continue to support efforts to find a diplomatic solution to the crisis in Ukraine on the basis of Ukraine's territorial integrity and international law.
Ensuring the security and welfare of the Crimean Tatar Turks, the original inhabitants of Crimea, is one of our priorities.
We will continue to take the necessary initiatives to expand and secure the rights and interests of Crimean Tatar Turks.
Our country will continue to make efforts to end the occupation of Azerbaijani territories in line with the peaceful settlement of conflicts in the South Caucasus.
Further development of our relations with the Caucasus and Central Asian countries and further strengthening of the Turkic Council established in 2009 will continue to be among our main objectives and we encourage Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan to become members of this organization.
We will maintain our close dialogue with the countries of North Africa and the Middle East and pursue multidimensional policies based on mutual interest and benefit; we will prioritize the development of cultural and humanitarian relations, especially between our peoples, with the contributions of our institutions such as Yunus Emre Institute, Maarif Foundation, Turkish Cooperation and Coordination Agency.
In the period ahead, we will continue to support the efforts of countries in the region to ensure security and stability in the face of difficult challenges such as terrorism and divisive and exclusionary approaches based on ethnic and sectarian grounds.
We fully support the Palestinian cause.
We consider it necessary to revitalize the Middle East Peace Process on a healthy basis.
We are in contact and coordination with the Palestinian authorities.
As the Chairperson-in-Office of the Organization of Islamic Cooperation (OIC), we will intensify our activities in the coming period.
We will continue our assistance to Palestine in every field.
We will uncompromisingly oppose all unlawful and UN resolutions-defying actions against Jerusalem and Al-Aqsa Mosque.
We will continue our efforts to bring the Syrian conflict, now in its eighth year, to a final political settlement based on the legitimate aspirations of the Syrian people, without causing further suffering and destruction.
Today, Turkey has proved that it is among the effective and influential actors in the Syrian issue with the twelve observation posts it has established to reduce tensions on the ground, its unwillingness to hesitate to deploy its troops in the fight against terrorism, and its active contribution in Astana and Sochi as a guarantor of the opposition and in Geneva as a supporter of the political process.
Through our engagement with Russia and Iran, as well as with the United States and other Western countries, we are committed to liaison between initiatives to resolve the crisis.
As we have done so far, we will work towards the goal of a new Syria that preserves its territorial integrity and political unity, that enjoys peace and stability, democratic and legitimate governance, and that is reunited with the millions of people displaced during the conflict.
Our desire will be to restore our neighborly relations and cooperation with the new Syria and to start a new era in our relations with the Syrian people on the basis of our historical, cultural and human ties.
We will continue our efforts to ensure lasting stability and security in Iraq.
We will continue our support for Iraq to achieve a functioning federal and democratic system on the basis of fair power and income sharing with inclusive policies, as envisaged in its Constitution, to strengthen its sovereignty and unity within its borders, and to eliminate terrorist organizations nesting in its territory and posing a threat to our country.
We will continue to cooperate with Iraqi authorities to find sustainable solutions to the problems faced by the Turkmen community as soon as possible and to ensure that Turkmens achieve the security and prosperity they deserve in Iraq.
By implementing the commitments we announced at the Iraq Reconstruction Conference within the framework of mutual interests, we will meet the infrastructure needs in our region, accelerate reconstruction efforts, create new job opportunities and increase commercial, cultural and social relations between our countries.
In addition to bilateral relations, we will maintain close diplomatic relations with Iran in the peace process in the Middle East, especially in Syria.
We will continue to actively participate in the "Heart of Asia-Istanbul Process", which was established under the leadership of our country in 2011 to enhance regional cooperation with a focus on Afghanistan, and we will host the annual conference of Foreign Ministers within the framework of our co-chairmanship of the process in 2018.
The Turkey-Pakistan High-Level Strategic Cooperation Council (HLSC) meeting is envisaged to be held in Pakistan in 2018.
We will continue to develop our economic and social relations with Latin America and the Caribbean, with which we have strengthened our commercial and diplomatic ties, on the basis of mutual respect and cooperation.
In order to further strengthen the awareness of Turkey in Africa, we will further increase the number of our Embassies and strengthen the activities of all public institutions that contribute to the development of our relations.
As a result of our efforts to enable Turkish companies and businessmen to become active in the African market and increase their market share, we will strive to increase our total trade volume, which exceeds 20 billion dollars.
We will continue to extend our helping hand to Africa in line with our vision of a balanced blend of development and humanitarian assistance and security cooperation.
We will work to ensure that this model is adopted by the international community and implemented across Africa, particularly in Somalia.
In order to strengthen our political and economic relations with the Asia-Pacific region, which has become the dynamo of the global economy in terms of realizing our country's 2023 targets, we will continue to strengthen our cooperation with the countries in the region at bilateral and institutional levels.
We will work to create the ground for our private sector to expand in the region by effectively using the Sectoral Dialogue Partnership mechanism with ASEAN.
We will continue to contribute constructively to solving the problems of Muslim communities in the region, particularly in Myanmar and the Southern Philippines.
We will continue to actively support reform efforts at the UN and push for more Turkish citizens to serve in the UN Secretariat.
We will support efforts to further strengthen the military and political effectiveness of NATO, which is at the center of our security and defense policy, and to contribute to the defense of our country against external threats.
At the OSCE, we will continue to improve our legislation and practices to ensure compliance with other conventions on fundamental rights and freedoms, in particular the European Convention on Human Rights.
In light of our zero-tolerance policy against torture, we will continue to cooperate closely with the Council of Europe's mechanisms in this field.
In the upcoming period, it is envisaged that a process to reform the functioning of the OIC will be initiated under the leadership of our country in cooperation with Bangladesh; the decisions taken on Jerusalem will be followed up and the OIC Police Cooperation and Coordination Center will be made active as an international organization based in Istanbul.
We will continue our efforts to ensure that the OIC, the second largest international organization in the world after the UN, reaches a respected, functional and effective position serving the common interests of the entire Islamic world.
We will continue our activities within the G20 framework to have a voice in global economic decisions and continue to play an active role in shaping the global economic agenda.
We took over the Chairmanship-in-Office of the Organization of the Eight Developing Countries with the Summit held in Istanbul on October 20, 2017.
We aim to change the decision-making mechanisms of the D-8, which has completed its 20th anniversary, and increase the number of its members.
D-8 Energy Ministers and Transportation Ministers Meetings will be held in our country in the coming period.
It will update the lists related to the Preferential Trade Agreement, one of the important achievements of the organization; implement the Clearing House, which will enable trade in local currency among member countries; and enable the D-8 to provide project financing.
We envisage to launch the Project Support Fund during our Presidency.
We will continue to promote our country's position on global issues through MIKTA (Mexico, Indonesia, South Korea, Turkey and Australia) and regional organizations and work to enhance opportunities for cooperation.
In the upcoming period, we will continue our policies to enhance regional cooperation opportunities through BSEC, to increase the visibility of BSEC, whose Permanent International Secretariat we host, in the international arena and to make it one of the effective foreign policy instruments of our country.
We will ensure that our relations with the IMF, the World Bank and other international financial institutions are maintained on the basis of cooperation in line with the interests of our country.
Humanitarian and Conscientious Foreign Policy: Foreign Aid and Refugees
As the Justice and Development Party, we want to increase prosperity not only for our own nation, but for all humanity.
We support the fight against hunger, poverty, conflicts, disasters and other global challenges, starting with our immediate neighborhood, regardless of race, religion, language or origin.
With this understanding, we consider it among the main priorities of our foreign policy to help all people, especially those living in the least developed and underdeveloped countries, who strive for a share of global prosperity, and to share our development experience with them.
a. What We Did
As AK Party, we see foreign policy as one of the most important building blocks of our goal of a strong and respected Turkey.
While building a stable and growing Turkey in the economy,
democratization
human rights
and we are taking historic steps towards establishing a credible foreign policy.
We have made and continue to make significant contributions to the global development and humanitarian diplomacy agenda, which is a core part of our foreign policy.
We increased the number of TIKA's Program Coordination Offices (PCOs) from 12 in 2002 to 60 in 50 countries as of 2017.
The number of countries where TIKA operates has also increased from 20 in 2002 to more than 150 as of 2017.
We have made significant progress in our Official Development Assistance (ODA) in recent years.
We increased ODA from USD 85 million in 2002 to USD 8.142 billion by the end of 2017.
In the same year, the ratio of ODA to GDP (ODA/GNI) reached 0.95 percent, exceeding the UN target of 0.7 percent.
As of today, Turkey is the 6th largest ODA provider among OECD countries after the USA, Germany, the UK, Japan and France.
We reached 6 billion dollars in humanitarian aid by the end of 2016.
With this figure, we ranked second in the world and first in terms of national income.
In the last two years, we have been teaching a lesson in humanitarian responsibility by ranking second only to the United States in humanitarian aid and first in the world in terms of the ratio of humanitarian aid to national income.
In addition to public sector aid activities, we increased Total Development Assistance (TDA) to $9.3 billion in 2017, including foreign investments by the private sector and the activities of civil society organizations.
The aid provided by our country to the Least Developed Countries, the world's most needy category, amounted to 294.8 million USD in 2017, exceeding our annual commitment of 200 million USD.
Turkey attaches special importance to the 47 least developed countries and prioritizes them in its development assistance.
At the 4th United Nations Conference on the Least Developed Countries (LDCs) held in Istanbul in 2011, the "Istanbul Programme of Action", which includes activities to be implemented for the development of LDCs until 2020, was adopted and a comprehensive Economic and Technical Cooperation Package for LDCs was announced by Turkey.
We provide "temporary protection" to Syrians fleeing war and oppression within the framework of international law.
We have been implementing an "open door" policy for Syrians since April 2011.
Today, we host approximately 3.6 million Syrian guests in our country.
We established 20 Temporary Accommodation Centers in 10 provinces.
In our temporary accommodation centers, we provide services to our Syrian guests 24/7 in education, health, security, religious services, etc.
In fact, our country has not received the expected support from economically developed countries and international institutions on the issue of refugees, for which the entire international community should assume responsibility.
We continue to stand by our Syrian brothers and sisters by maintaining our centuries-old historical and conscientious responsibility and humanitarian approach towards people in need.
We provide Syrians who seek refuge in our country with temporary protection in accordance with international law and provide them with basic services including education, health and access to the labor market.
We continue to keep the issue of Syrian refugees on the international agenda.
We emphasize that the international community must play its part in sharing the burden and responsibility.
We also provided basic aid and health services to 200,000 Iraqis, including 40,000 Yazidis, who took refuge in our country from Iraq as a result of DAESH attacks.
Somalia is one of the best examples of the humanitarian diplomacy we are pursuing.
Mr. President's visit as Prime Minister was a milestone for Somalia's recovery and drew the attention of the international community to the region.
We have completed our legal and institutional arrangements in the field of migration and international protection.
We have created a reliable data system.
We will continue our capacity building efforts in the field of migration.
In an environment where humanitarian crises that threaten the stability of the world are increasing and consciences are silent, while developed countries do not take enough responsibility, Turkey sincerely extends its helping hand to Afghanistan, Palestine, Yemen, Iraq, Somalia and other geographies that can hardly be shown on the map.
As a result of our active diplomacy, Turkey is today the most active country for the Arakanese Muslims, who were ignored by the world, and continues to provide aid to thousands of Arakanese living in camps.
We have enabled hundreds of thousands of people to hold on to life with social, administrative and economic capacity building projects in many areas such as education, health, water and sanitation, maternal and child health, agriculture, animal husbandry, vocational training, and support for return to normal life in humanitarian crisis areas.
We contribute to the development of bilateral relations in every field, especially the opening of our export-oriented private sector to new geographies and the development of long-term economic relations with hundreds of projects carried out by TIKA within the framework of our country's policy of opening up to Africa and Latin America.
With our development cooperation projects carried out in Africa under the coordination of TIKA, we are contributing to the establishment of infrastructures in 54 countries where Africa can use its human, natural and all kinds of resources for its own people and to reach the prosperous level that the continent deserves with an equal partnership understanding.
We provide health services to brotherly peoples by operating hospitals abroad, especially in Somalia, Sudan and Pakistan.
By combining the scholarships we provide to foreign students under the title of "Turkey Scholarships", we have enabled more students from more countries to come to our country and receive undergraduate, graduate and doctoral education.
Today, 16 thousand international students from 144 countries are studying at our universities with Turkey Scholarships.
These students, who are among the important assets of our country, will be a bridge between Turkey and their countries when they successfully complete their education and return to their countries.
We continue our efforts to establish Turkey Scholarships offices in 40 universities in order to increase the quality of services and social and cultural guidance programs offered to international students.
In addition, we continue to improve the legislation on visas, residence and work permits for international students.
We are also preparing a document to determine the standards in teaching Turkish to foreigners.
We continue our efforts towards Sister Communities in a wide geography that share the historical, religious, cultural and political values represented by our country.
In this context, we are working to train human resources, to protect and develop the intellectual, literary, philosophical, scientific and cultural accumulation representing the common historical and cultural heritage of our country and sister communities, to transfer a sense of common identity and cultural values to young generations, to spread Turkish and Turkish culture, to support the political, social and cultural organizations of sister communities, to support academic research on these regions and communities.
In the context of sister communities, the Project on Palestinian Documents in the Ottoman Archives, Crimean Studies, Somali Diaspora Studies, Turkish Council Diaspora Cooperation Program, Turkish Education for Syrians and Meskhetian Turks Studies are ongoing.
In our neighboring geographies of the Balkans, the Middle East, the Caucasus and Central Asia, we have restored hundreds of monuments in order to preserve our historical and cultural common heritage.
b. What We Will Do
In the coming period, we will give our development cooperation policy a strategic framework.
By strengthening our financial, human and institutional capacity and legal infrastructure for development cooperation, we will ensure that these opportunities are used to increase our social welfare.
We will continue to work towards raising awareness of international cooperation in Turkey and strengthening cultural cooperation between Turkey and partner countries.
We aim to improve the institutional and human capacity of public institutions, private sector and NGOs in the field of international cooperation, raise the awareness of national and international public opinion and make Turkey a regional hub for international development cooperation organizations.
We will prepare a Basic Policy and Strategy Document on Development Cooperation and a Foreign Aid Law.
We will prepare a comprehensive review of Turkey's development cooperation.
We will accredit civil society organizations operating in the field of development cooperation and support them to become international centers.
We will launch "Knowledge and Experience Sharing Programs" in specific areas where Turkey has expertise.
We will support international mobility and cooperation in education.
We will establish international development cooperation research centers and graduate programs at universities.
We will launch a program on the effectiveness of foreign language education in educational institutions.
We will establish international student offices in universities and improve legislation for international students.
With Turkey Scholarships, one of the most comprehensive and prestigious scholarship programs in the world, we will continue to contribute to global knowledge, educational equality, inter-country communication and the development of political, cultural and economic relations.
With the dynamic scholarship programs within the framework of Turkey Scholarships, we will increase the share of Turkey in international student mobility and ensure that qualified students and researchers prefer our country.
We will increase the number and diversity of education and internship programs for international students and highly qualified manpower, enabling Turkey to become an education hub.
We will continue to contribute to raising students in line with Turkey's vision for international relations through cultural and social programs that will contribute to the social and personal development of international students.
With bilateral education protocols, we will contribute to the trained manpower and management cadres of sister countries and support the strengthening of relations between our country and sister countries.
We will finance the projects and researches of highly qualified international students, who can carry our country forward in the areas of need, to be carried out in the fields to be determined, for the duration of the project/research within the scope of Turkey Scholarships, with the intellectual/industrial rights to be granted to the relevant institutions and organizations.
Within the scope of creating and compiling data that will contribute to Turkey's internationalization strategy in higher education, we will develop a common portal and registration system with the participation of relevant institutions, where visa, residence, international student work permit, general health insurance procedures will be automated and all legal documents and contact information of international students will be recorded from the moment they enter the country.
With the Turkey Graduates Program, we will continue our efforts effectively for our 150 thousand graduates who have graduated from higher and secondary education institutions, language courses and academies in our country with scholarships or with their own means, and who are currently in approximately 165 countries around the world.
We will increase the number of Turkish Alumni Associations in different parts of the world from 32 to 100 by 2023.
With the 50 alumni reunions organized in 2017, we will organize regular activities every year with more than 5 thousand alumni who graduated from our country years ago and are currently serving as ministers, deputies, soldiers and journalists in their home countries.
In this way, we will ensure the continuity of Turkey's contact with Turkey's alumni.
With the Academic Research and Civil Society Cooperation Programs, we aim to train the intellectual cadres of the sister communities and our country, to enrich the common scientific and cultural accumulation, and to create a global network with our country at the center that understands the world in Turkish, thinks in Turkish and produces ideas in Turkish.
With the projects realized within this scope, we will continue our efforts to archive the oral and written common historical heritage, to bring the wealth of thought produced by brotherly communities around the world directly to our world of knowledge in Turkish, and to translate works of thought in Turkish into other languages.
Through the Cultural Mobility and Education Cooperation Programs, we will organize curriculum and basic works studies and cultural education and travel programs to transfer the sense of common identity and cultural values to young generations belonging to sister communities.
In this context, we will continue our efforts to create special programs for university students, researchers and young people, as well as basic educational and cultural works together with experts.
We will continue to support fraternal minority communities such as Meskhetian Turks and Crimean Tatars with various projects to protect their identity and cultural values, democratic rights and to make their just causes known to the international community.
We will continue our projects with our sister communities in the coming period.
In this context, we will build Mother and Child Health Hospitals in Tunisia and Djibouti.
We will accelerate agriculture and animal husbandry, vocational training and capacity building projects in the Balkans.
In order to protect our common heritage and build bridges of peace between our peoples, we will continue to support all our heart geography, especially our Palestinian brothers and sisters, in every field, and we will always stand by them in order for them to achieve the life they deserve and live in peace.
We will continue our projects to improve our relations with the brotherly countries in Central Asia, our ancestral homeland, to transfer the experience of our country to them and to protect our common historical and cultural heritage.
With the support we will provide to physical infrastructures in areas such as education, health and transportation in Africa, we will continue our projects rapidly in order for Africa to utilize its true potential today and tomorrow as we did yesterday.
We will carry out special scholarship and training programs to train qualified human resources to take part in the reconstruction process in crisis regions such as Syria, Yemen and Afghanistan.
We continue and will continue to provide healthcare services by opening new hospitals abroad, especially in Kyrgyzstan, Niger, Djibouti, Libya and Gaza.
We will increase scholarship opportunities for students and academics from LDCs in our universities in priority areas of development need.
We will strengthen the external relations units of public institutions in terms of budget, human resources and institutional capacity.
We will increase the number of Turkish expert staff in international organizations.
We will review the specialized units in missions abroad and ensure that appointments to these units are based on merit.
We will further strengthen Turkey's emergency and humanitarian assistance capacity.
Our official development assistance will continue to be an important element of our entrepreneurial and humanitarian foreign policy in terms of both quantity and content.
Our vision is to contribute to international peace and stability through development assistance.
We will continue our people-oriented policy on migration as we have done so far.
Within the framework of our international obligations and national legislation, we will continue to provide the necessary conditions to enhance the welfare and social cohesion of the persons we protect in a manner befitting human dignity.
We have reached the final stage of work on strengthening our Migration Cohesion policies.
We will implement our policies within the framework of our Cohesion Strategy document.
We will continue our efforts to ensure the voluntary and safe return of those who have entered our country illegally.
We will strengthen voluntary return mechanisms.
Global Justice The World is Bigger than Five
While the United Nations, established in the aftermath of the Second World War, continues to be the only platform where all states of the world can come together and set common goals for humanity, it has increasingly struggled to adapt to global developments and changes in the intervening period.
Ensuring sustainable peace in all parts of the world,
developing a culture of coexistence while respecting differences, and
strengthening the level of prosperity in a fair and just manner for the benefit of all humanity are the common goals of humanity.
Accordingly, the international community needs an effective United Nations organization to act in solidarity against global threats such as terrorism, discrimination, climate change, epidemics and hunger.
It is not possible to say that the United Nations has been fulfilling this responsibility properly for some time.
The Security Council, which has a unique mandate and power to safeguard global peace and security, is unable to fulfill this vital function due to the bottlenecks in decision-making and implementation, especially with its structure based on the balance of power of decades ago.
The main reason for this is that the five permanent veto-wielding members of the Council have used their veto privileges to pursue their own narrow national interests.
Millions of people around the world are paying for this dysfunction with their lives and the international system is in danger of losing its legitimacy and stability as a result.
The Council's inaction in the face of the humanitarian tragedies in Syria and Palestine in recent years has gone beyond the limits of international conscience.
The Security Council must be transformed into a democratic, transparent, fair and effective body, and the United Nations must have the capacity to respond quickly to crises.
As Turkey, we will continue to persistently express our expectation in all kinds of bilateral and multilateral platforms with the saying "The world is bigger than five" and we will continue to contribute to all kinds of activities to be carried out in this direction.
Turkey is both actively supporting reform efforts and taking initiatives for more representation in the UN Secretariat.
Our country has also taken important steps towards making Istanbul a UN center.
We will continue to work on the necessary legal infrastructure for other UN agencies to open offices in Istanbul.
Reminding that the world is bigger than 5, we will continue to pursue the need to reform the UN Charter and the bureaucratic structure of the UN Secretariat, in particular its current structure, which prevents the UN Security Council from taking the necessary steps in matters of peace and security, as in Rwanda, Bosnia-Herzegovina, Syria and Myanmar.
Our aim is to democratize the global system and transform the UN into a guarantor of global peace.
Combating Global Discrimination and Islamophobia
Today, we see that discrimination and racism have gained a new dimension with the axis of religion and Islamophobia and we are pursuing an active policy to take measures.
These dangerous trends, which are on the rise again especially in European countries, directly affect our citizens living abroad.
We see Islamophobia and even Islamophobia spreading like a cancer, especially in European societies.
The increase in attacks against our citizens, their properties and mosques, especially in Western European countries, has reached a level that cannot be ignored.
In Europe, being different, looking different has become a matter of human security.
The threat of being subjected to violence for this reason alone is a worrying prospect for millions of people living in Europe.
In fact, this shows how exemplary the European culture/understanding, which claims pluralism, has become.
Turkey is putting all its efforts firstly to protect the security and rights of Muslims in Europe and secondly to correct this narrow and dangerous perspective in Europe.
In this effort, it makes use not only of bilateral contacts but also of various organizations and processes.
The establishment of the OIC Contact Group on Muslims in Europe is a step in this direction.
These efforts will be intensified and we will continue to be the protector, guardian and voice of Muslims in Europe.
Since 2012, the Consular Call Center of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has been available to our citizens who have been subjected to xenophobic attacks abroad.
Citizens who have been subjected to such an attack have the opportunity to inform us on a 24/7 basis.
Our citizens are warned to be vigilant against the propaganda activities of extremist movements and are provided with the necessary legal guidance free of charge.
Attempts are also being made before the relevant country authorities to remove racism, xenophobia and discrimination from textbooks.
In addition to these initiatives, issues of xenophobia and Islamophobia are brought to the agenda of multilateral platforms such as the Council of Europe, the OSCE and the United Nations, and resolutions on these issues are adopted.
Turkish NGOs are supported to participate in the events organized in these platforms, thus raising international awareness on racism, Islamophobic attacks and discriminatory practices that our citizens living abroad are exposed to.
Launched in 2005 under the leadership of Turkey and Spain, the Alliance of Civilizations aims to eliminate prejudices and polarization and strengthen the culture of living together.
The Alliance of Civilizations was later accepted by the then UN Secretary General and became a UN initiative.
The number of member countries and international organizations has increased to 146.
The members, who come together with the idea that the global threat posed by extremism, xenophobia, Islamophobia, racism and discrimination can only be overcome through cooperation on a global scale, prepare national and regional action plans in these areas and share experiences and resources.
We will continue to be a leading country in the fight against discrimination and anti-Islamism, to provide support for the protection of our citizens, and to convey the message that global peace can only be achieved by overcoming prejudices and establishing a culture of coexistence.
Our Citizens Living Abroad
As AK Party, we see it as one of our fundamental duties to create the capacity to provide the necessary services to our people wherever they are in the world.
One of the main elements of our foreign policy is to protect the interests of our citizens abroad by embracing all their differences, to develop their language and cultural background, and to provide our services abroad in a permanent and healthy manner.
It is our constitutional duty and the basis of our diaspora policy for our citizens abroad to achieve their rights in the country they live in and to maintain their ties with the motherland.
We consider the preservation of the Turkish diaspora presence and its contribution to the development of inter-communal relations as one of the important areas of responsibility of our foreign policy.
a. What We Did
As AK Party, we are working to embrace all the differences of our society abroad, to develop language and cultural accumulation, to provide our services abroad in a permanent and healthy way, and to protect the interests of our country and our citizens living abroad.
During our ruling period, we eliminated all kinds of discriminatory policies and regulations against our people living abroad.
Policies towards our citizens abroad have started to be institutionalized and have become one of the main topics of our governments' actions.
We established the Presidency for Turks Abroad and Related Communities and started to follow the issues of our people living abroad in all its dimensions.
We are working to improve the institutional capacity of the Turkish diaspora.
We have initiated efforts to develop cooperation with the diaspora organizations of the member countries of the Turkic Council and the Organization of Islamic Cooperation and to find common solutions for our diasporas.
We have assigned more than 2 thousand teachers and religious officials abroad to keep the mother tongue, culture and religion of our young people abroad alive.
We have established master's degree programs to train Turkish trainers abroad.
We provided scholarships and housing support to students.
We ensured that our youth in the Diaspora receive free education at state universities.
We provided opportunities for young people living abroad to do internships in our country.
We brought thousands of young people to Turkey through the Roots and Bridges Mobility programs to meet with history and fuse with culture.
We enabled our citizens residing abroad to vote in the elections of the motherland. Since 2014, we have
set up polling stations in more than 50 countries in 4 elections and allowed them to vote.
We also ensured that our voters registered in the overseas voter registry can vote in the foreign representations of their choice.
Thus, in addition to fulfilling a democratic and constitutional right, we have taken an important step in the context of belonging to the motherland.
We have taken steps to improve the service quality of our Consulates General.
We have taken steps to eliminate the grievances of approximately 750 thousand blue card holders; the blue card is now valid as an identity document.
We ensured that the blue card is used as an identity document in banking transactions.
For our retired citizens, we increased the stay period for the vehicles they bring to Turkey to 2 years.
We reduced the cost of foreign currency military service from 6,000 Euros to 1,000 Euros.
We also made it possible to make payments for military service in foreign currency at consulates without the need for a correspondent bank.
We have introduced the possibility of recognizing divorce decrees issued abroad without the need to file a lawsuit and to arrange the civil registry.
We halved passport fees for our citizens residing abroad.
We enabled our citizens abroad to use their mobile devices in Turkey without paying fees (for 4 months).
We introduced a VAT exemption for the first house and workplace purchased by our citizens living abroad in Turkey.
We extended the period for the use of foreign-registered vehicles for the personal use of our citizens living abroad in Turkey from six months to two years.
We ensured that the first and second addresses have the same legal value in public services carried out based on address.
We established the Yunus Emre Institute in 2009 to teach Turkish in cultural centers in more than 40 countries, and promoted the Turkish culture and art world through various activities.
We established Family and Social Policies overseas organizations in Cologne and Düsseldorf to serve our citizens in countries with a large Turkish population, especially in Germany.
b. What We Will Do
As AK Party, we support the integration of our citizens living abroad into the society in which they live by preserving their identity and culture, and their active participation in economic, social and political life.
However, we will pay utmost attention to the preservation of their cultural identity against assimilation policies and will continue to provide the necessary support.
As AK Party, we consider the coordination of the services carried out by our different institutions for the holistic implementation of our diaspora policy among our main priorities.
In this context, we will establish the Overseas Citizens Coordination Board.
We will establish Consultative Assemblies of Overseas Citizens with broad participation in consular districts, the secretariat of which will be run by YTB.
In the coming period, we will ensure the establishment of a permanent specialized commission called the Commission on Turks Abroad in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey.
We will support our citizens living abroad in preserving their cultural belonging, making their NGOs more effective, improving their capacity for active participation in society and strengthening their citizenship rights.
We will increase the programs that will raise the pioneers of the Turkish diaspora, especially the scholarship program we have launched for citizens abroad.
We will establish new scholarship programs to train experts in the fields needed by our citizens abroad.
We will effectively continue the special programs we have developed especially for young people in order to raise outstanding individuals among our citizens abroad who will stand out in the cultural field in the country they live in.
We will increase internship opportunities for young people living abroad in our country.
We will continue to encourage TUBITAK, universities and research centers to conduct research on the issues and agendas of our Diaspora in social, economic, cultural, political, health, legal and other related fields.
We will organize annual diaspora meetings where our citizens living abroad will come together and discuss the issues that concern them.
We will encourage our universities to open departments abroad in the fields that our citizens need.
We will establish migration museums to reflect the migration history of our citizens abroad.
We will further improve public services for our citizens abroad.
We will facilitate electronic payment in consular transactions.
We will eliminate the problem of the age of 38 in foreign currency military service transactions.
We have started to work on the part-time employment of our citizens who retired from abroad.
We will continue to expand the scope of cultural excursion and camping programs for our young people living abroad to experience the vast history and culture of Turkey.
We will diversify and increase cultural mobility programs for young people.
We will bring 100 thousand young people to our country and bring them together with history and culture.
We encourage Turks living abroad to open bilingual schools in the countries where they live, starting from kindergarten.
We will ensure decentralized teacher recruitment.
We will increase the number of locally employed religious officials.
We will continue to support the activities of civil society organizations abroad to promote mother tongue education and the protection of cultural identities.
We will diversify and increase our projects and support for our children abroad to learn Turkish, our mother tongue.
We will encourage young people to spend a semester in Turkey through exchange programs at high school and university level.
We will double the quota allocated to diaspora youth in our universities.
In particular, we will take new steps to improve our existing services to help new generations preserve Turkish and our culture.
We will diversify publications and activities that will teach Turkish and Turkish culture and introduce Turkish art to our children and youth abroad.
For cultural support, we will widely distribute the book sets we have prepared for our citizens living abroad, and we will establish Turkish libraries for our citizens abroad.
We will organize language, culture and values education programs for children and youth who spend their summer holidays in our country.
We will support the strengthening of Turkish local media abroad.
By amending the law of the Press Advertisement Agency, we will pave the way for public announcements and advertisements to be provided to Turkish media abroad.
The restructuring of TRT Türk will be completed in a short time and it will provide wider service to our citizens abroad.
We will continue to take initiatives before the relevant countries in order to eliminate the problems experienced in family reunification, to increase inter-communal relations and to keep family values alive.
We will develop special programs for the elderly, disabled and women.
We will promote culturally sensitive care homes.
We will act together with the relevant countries in the fight against discrimination, racism, xenophobia and Islamophobia, which pose a great threat to all humanity, and we will accelerate our efforts to protect human values, which are also closely related to our people abroad.
We will effectively combat discrimination and rights violations that our citizens abroad are exposed to, especially Islamophobia, on all platforms.
We will increase the number of training and seminar programs for experts living abroad on the problems they face in their countries of residence and Turkey and their solutions.
Personal data will be protected in accordance with national and international law and the interests of our citizens will be taken as a basis.
We will remove barriers to public services for those who return to Turkey for good.
New modules will be opened in KPSS for the employment of our young people raised abroad in public institutions.
We will update social, educational and cultural cooperation agreements.
National Security and Combating All Forms of Terrorism
Terrorism is one of the most important threats to national and international peace, security and stability.
Therefore, enhancing international cooperation in the fight against terrorism is one of our priority agenda items in both bilateral and multilateral platforms.
We continue our fight against terrorism with determination.
We are fighting against PKK/PYD/YPG, DAESH, FETO and all terrorist organizations simultaneously.
Our struggle continues abroad as well as at home.
We are working to end the activities of terrorist organizations targeting our country, including black propaganda, financing and recruitment.
In particular, EU member states are demanded to put an end to the tolerance shown to the existence and actions of the PKK, which is also recognized as a terrorist organization by the EU, and to extradite terrorists, freeze their assets and initiate legal proceedings against them.
The fact that the PKK and the PYD are the same entity is insistently put forward on every platform.
The PYD/YPG's efforts to open so-called "bureaus/representative offices" in some capitals are closely monitored and prevented.
Our country also plays a leading role in the fight against Al-Qaeda and DAESH terrorist organizations exploiting religion, which threaten international security with their actions in different geographies.
Turkey co-chairs the Foreign Terrorist Fighters (FTF) Working Group established within the Global Coalition Against Daesh.
On the other hand, the measures we are taking at our borders and inside the country are critical in preventing the transit of foreign terrorist fighters traveling to and from conflict zones.
The successful operations organized by our security and intelligence units against DAESH and its cells in the country will continue.
Our fight against the foreign organization of the FETÖ terrorist organization, which is one of the leading threats to the survival of our country, continues at full speed.
Thanks to our efforts, international public opinion has raised serious questions about the character and true aims of the organization, and FETÖ schools and other elements in various countries have been shut down, taken over or banned.
Some FETÖ members have been extradited to Turkey or sent back to their countries of origin.
We will continue our efforts to bring FETÖ's ringleaders to justice and to eliminate the organization's foreign extensions.
TOWARDS THE JUNE 24 ELECTIONS...
With the June 24 elections, our country is entering a new era.
Our Party, which has reunited and integrated the state and the nation in the 16 years since its establishment, is determined to carry our beautiful Turkey and our beloved nation to a much more prosperous future in the new period and to continue to be the servant of our nation on this path.
The new era puts people at the center and expands areas of freedom,
more democratic and
It refers to a period focused on quality in all areas.
Our source, as always, is Turkey.
We will work harder and we will not disappoint the trust of our nation.
The June 24 elections are an important milestone for us to take our 16-year-long actions to a higher level.
This election is a choice to walk with our nation to the future with stronger and stronger steps.
In this period; we will continue to dominate an approach that puts people at the center in every field as we have done so far.
It will establish reassuring justice in every field,
national security and
we will not compromise public order in any way.
We will further improve the quality of education and equip our people with the most advanced technologies, knowledge and skills.
We will carry the accumulation of our civilization to the highest level in the field of culture and arts.
We will ensure the production of high value-added products in our country by providing maximum support to research and development.
We will prioritize preventive health services for our generations to grow up healthier.
We will continue to grow our economy at high speed and in a stable manner.
We will facilitate the employment of our young people by creating qualified and new job opportunities.
We will empower our women to maximize their contribution to the economy and social life.
We will continue to protect and care for the segments of our society in need of special attention, especially children, the elderly and the disabled.
We will take measures for a more equitable distribution of income to ensure a fairer distribution of the benefits of economic growth.
We will make an approach that prioritizes the quality of the cities we live in dominant in all our planning and maximize the quality of local services.
We will give utmost importance to transfer our natural environment and resources to future generations with a sustainable approach.
We will continue to act with a proactive approach in foreign policy, and we will resolutely continue to be the voice of our heartland and the oppressed.
To summarize, we will continue to take firm steps towards the future together, without compromising our domestic and national stance based on the fundamental values of our beloved nation.
To meet our beloved citizens at the ballot box...
ANNEX: IMPORTANT DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS
Education and Culture
Movement for Increasing Opportunities and Improving Technology (FATIH) Project
The project involved the distribution of 1.4 million tablet computers, the network infrastructure of 16,876 schools and the installation of interactive whiteboards in 432 thousand classrooms.
The project will be expanded in the coming period.
While increasing the technological level of education,
On the other hand, dissemination of information technologies to the whole society will be ensured and domestic production and research will be supported.
Istanbul AKM Project
The construction of the Istanbul Atatürk Cultural Center building, which is planned to have a total indoor area of 102,736 m2 and include an Opera Hall with a capacity of 2464 seats, a Theater Hall with a capacity of 828 seats, a Concert Hall with a capacity of 445 seats, various conference and meeting halls of various sizes, exhibition halls, cafeterias, restaurants, décor and costume workshops, rehearsal and study halls and an indoor parking lot, is planned to be completed in 2019.
Ankara AKM Concert Hall (CSO) Project
It is being built on 154 thousand m2 of land in the fourth zone of the Atatürk Cultural Center area, between the Ankara Courthouse and Gençlik Park.
The project, which has a total construction area of 62,570 m2 and includes two concert halls, music practice rooms, recording studios, foyers, cafeteria and parking garage, is planned to be completed in 2019.
Rami Barracks Renovation and Restoration Project
The Rami Barracks, which was restored and allocated to the Ministry of Culture to be used as a library and for cultural purposes, is planned to be opened as one of the largest libraries in Turkey.
The restoration of the Rami barracks and its display and organization is planned in 3 stages.
Phase 1 of the restoration of the Rami Barracks was completed in 2017 and restoration works for Phase 2 are ongoing.
For the restoration of the 3rd stage, preparatory works are being carried out.
By the end of 2018, it is envisaged to be partially restored and fully restored and put into service in 2019.
Restoration and Reconstruction of Kuleli Military High School as a Museum
Project design work has begun for the conversion of a total area of 32,000 m2 from the facilities located in the Kuleli Military Barracks into a museum.
Within the scope of the museum works, historical studies, field surveys and studies to determine the project concept are ongoing.
Izmir Museum of Aegean Civilizations Project
The tender for the Izmir Museum of Aegean Civilizations, which will be built on a closed area of approximately 20,000 m2 , has been tendered and project work has started, and it is planned that the projects will be completed by the end of 2018 and the construction phase will start in 2019.
Turkish Civilizations Museum Complex Project
A protocol was signed for the design and construction of the Turkish Civilizations Museum Complex, which is planned to be established in Ankara AKM District 1.
The Project will be initiated after the Ministry of Environment and Urbanization completes the planning studies for the area.
Special Museums Project
Construction and operation incentives will continue in order to accelerate the development process of our museums, which are one of the most important values that will contribute to social development, and to expand modern museum services throughout the country.
Thematic Museums Project
In line with the objective of focusing on the establishment of museums with different themes in order to diversify museums, work is ongoing on thematic museums such as Ankara Kahraman Kazan 15 July Martyrs and Democracy Museum, Adana New Museum Complex Phase II, Industry Museum, Agriculture and City Museum, Bursa Turkish Islamic Art Museum, Kütahya Mining Museum, Istanbul Music Museum.
The construction of thematic museums such as Edirne Museum of Ottoman Civilizations, Istanbul Coin Museum, Manisa Museum of Turkish Islamic Art and Sufi Museum is planned.
Digital Archives Project
We are creating a "Digital Cultural Archive" to ensure the correct transfer of our tangible cultural heritage to future generations.
With the Registered Cultural Assets Immovable National Inventory System (TUES), we aim to continue the identification and registration of archaeological, natural, urban and historical protected areas as well as buildings and monuments that are cultural and natural assets, to digitize their inventories and present them to the public.
In addition, with the Museums National Inventory System (MUES), we are introducing other inventory systems in line with international standards that record the movable cultural assets in our country on a national scale.
In 2023, we plan to complete all data entries.
,Island of Democracy and Freedom Project
Yassıada and Sivriada will be handled with a different approach and transformed into the Island of Democracy and Freedoms.
In this context, facilities such as museums, congress center, conference hall, restaurants and accommodation facilities are being built.
64 percent of the project was completed in 2017 and is planned to be completed in April 2019.
Health
National Vaccine Production
Within the scope of national vaccine production, work is being carried out in two phases for tetanus and diphtheria vaccines.
In this framework, a tender was held in 2014 with a 7-year purchase guarantee. In the first phase until July 2019, it is envisaged that the vaccine will be imported, the filling will be done in Turkey and the necessary infrastructure will be established to produce the antigen of the vaccine in Turkey, and in the second phase, the production of the antigen of the vaccine will start.
The evaluation process for the Adult Hepatitis-A vaccine Project has been completed.
The tender processes of the project have been completed by the General Directorate of Health Investments and the General Directorate of Public Health of Turkey.
Domestic Plasma Products Production Project
It is a project to produce blood products, which are currently completely imported, from domestic plasma and to ensure national competence in this field through technology transfer.
Within the scope of the project, a contract was signed in 2017 with a consortium that fulfills the requirement of having 50 percent local partners.
The company is expected to establish the necessary infrastructure and start production by 2023, purchasing blood plasma from the Red Crescent and producing blood products worth approximately EUR 2.4 billion annually for 12 years.
In this way, it is aimed to transfer know-how on blood product production to Turkey and to reduce the cost of high-cost plasma products.
Domestic Medical Imaging Devices Production Project
Within the scope of Industrial Cooperation Projects, five medical imaging devices, namely Magnetic Resonance (MRI), Computed Tomography (CT), Ultrasonography (USG), Digital X-Ray (DR) and Bedside Monitor (HBM), will be procured under the conditions of domestic contribution, technological cooperation and export, and domestic production and technology will be developed in this field.
City Hospitals Project (PPP Model)
In order to increase the quality of health service delivery, 30 projects including health campuses, health campuses, state hospitals, city hospitals with a total of 42,459 beds are being realized through Public-Private Partnership (PPP) method.
Mersin, Adana, Yozgat, Isparta and Kayseri City Hospitals were completed and commissioned.
Ankara Bilkent, Manisa, Elazığ and Eskişehir City Hospitals are planned to be commissioned in 2018.
Other projects envisaged to be constructed through PPP method are as follows:Ankara Etlik Integrated Health CampusIstanbul İkitelli Integrated Health Campus Gaziantep Integrated Health Campus İzmir Bayraklı Integrated Health Campus Konya Karatay Health FacilityBursa Integrated Health CampusKocaeli Integrated Health Campus Denizli City HospitalTekirdağ State HospitalŞanlıurfa City Hospitalİzmir Tınaztepe City Hospital Kütahya City HospitalSamsun Integrated Health CampusIstanbul Sancaktepe Integrated Health Campus Antalya City HospitalAydın City HospitalDiyarbakır Kayapınar City Hospital Ordu City HospitalTrabzon City HospitalPhysical Treatment and Rehabilitation Hospitals and Psychiatry and High Security Forensic Psychiatry Hospitals
Defense Industry
ALTAY Main Battle Tank Project
The ALTAY Project, which emerged in line with Turkey's need for a modern main battle tank, involves the indigenous design, development and production of Turkey's first indigenous main battle tank.
In the first phase of the project, the Technical Data Package and production of two prototype tanks were completed.
Contract preparation activities for the serial production of 250 tanks are ongoing.
Armored Vehicle Projects
Armored vehicles (Kirpi, Cobra, Ejder Yalçın, etc.) with high protection and mobility capabilities that respond to operational needs in all kinds of regions and terrain conditions have been manufactured and put into service, and the integration of electronic systems, imaging and protection systems, which are complementary elements of these vehicles, and new developments according to operational needs are ongoing.
Improvement of Anti-Tank Defense Capability Project
The project aims to improve the anti-tank defense capabilities of 169 M60 and 40 Leopard tanks.
The modernization of over 120 tanks has already been completed.
National Ship (MİLGEM) Project
In the MİLGEM project, which is our first national warship with a hundred percent domestic design, the 1st MİLGEM ship TCG Heybeliada and the 2nd ship TCG Büyükada were delivered in 2016.
Within the scope of the project, the 3rd and 4th ships, Burgazada and Kınalıada, have been launched and testing activities are ongoing.
As part of the second phase of the project, the construction of the first of the four frigate-class ships has begun.
New Type Submarine Project
In order to meet the criteria of the Submarine Concept of Operation, six New Type Submarines, which can operate for a long time in maritime operation areas under enemy control by utilizing the stealth feature of the submarine, are aimed to be built at Gölcük Shipyard with maximum domestic contribution, and to provide knowledge and experience in submarine construction, integration and systems.
The construction of the submarines is ongoing and they are planned to be commissioned as of 2021.
Multipurpose Amphibious Assault Ship Project
Within the scope of the project, the TCG Anadolu Ship, which will be able to transfer a force of at least 1 battalion in the Aegean, Mediterranean and Black Sea to the crisis zone with its own logistical support, without the need for main base support, is planned to enter the inventory of the Turkish Naval Forces Command in 2021.
National Fighter Aircraft Project
The project aims to meet the Air Forces Command's combat aircraft requirements after the 2030s with an indigenous design model.
It is aimed to complete indigenous design activities by maximizing the use of domestic industry.
The first flight is planned for 2023, and the prototype of the aircraft is expected to be completed within this period.
HÜRKUŞ Aircraft Project
Two prototype aircraft were delivered within the scope of the Turkish Initial and Basic Trainer Aircraft Development Project "HÜRKUŞ".
HÜRKUŞ is the first Turkish aircraft to receive type certification from the European Civil Aviation Authority, and was designed and developed entirely indigenously in response to the evolving training aircraft needs of global civil and military aviation.
Armament activities are ongoing within the scope of the version called HÜRKUŞ-C.
F-35 Joint Strike Fighter Project
In order to meet our need for a new generation fighter jet, we are planning to procure a total of 100 F-35 fighters, 30 of which have already been ordered as part of the 3rd level project.
The center fuselage, one of the most complex structural parts of the F-35 aircraft, is now being produced as a single source outside the United States.
The first delivery will be made in June 2018 and will be put into use following the completion of the necessary trainings.
Anka UAV Project
ANKA UAV systems can perform real-time imagery intelligence missions for reconnaissance, surveillance, fixed/mobile target detection, identification, identification and tracking, day and night, including bad weather conditions.
Within the scope of the ANKA program, which is also used as an armed UAV (UCAV), deliveries of the satellite-controlled version have also started, thus enabling use at much greater distances thanks to satellite control without the need for remote command.
Bayraktar UAV Project
It is a reconnaissance and surveillance vehicle being developed at the most advanced technological level in the world class with its national and indigenous fully automatic flight control features in accordance with the medium altitude and long range class UAV concept.
With indigenous ammunition, it can remain in the air for 24 hours and serve armed.
Akinci UAV / Unmanned Combat Aircraft Project
In addition to the existing UAV projects, preparations for the Akıncı UAV and Unmanned Combat Aircraft Project, which will be able to perform intelligence, reconnaissance and surveillance missions at high altitude for longer periods of time with its increased payload and ammunition carrying capacity, are continuing rapidly.
Atak Attack and Tactical Reconnaissance Helicopter Project
ATAK Helicopters are equipped with fully indigenous mission computers, avionics and weapon systems, and are capable of using Javelin, UMTAS and L-UMTAS missiles.
Compared to its counterparts, it is possible to say that it ranks first in the world.
Currently, 35 helicopters have been delivered.
In addition, with the know-how and experience gained from the ATAK Project, work has been initiated to develop an indigenous helicopter with more advanced capabilities, including its design, which is referred to as the big brother of the ATAK, and the first step has been taken in this project.
Utility Helicopter Project
A total of 109 T70 helicopters in two different configurations will be produced as a result of equipping Sikorsky S70i helicopters, which will be produced entirely at TAI facilities, with modern avionic systems produced by Aselsan and T700-TEI-701 engines to be produced by TEI.
Indigenous Helicopter Project
Within the scope of the program, which was initiated to design and produce a helicopter that can operate effectively in the most challenging climatic conditions and geography, high altitude and high temperature, day and night conditions, using national capabilities and capabilities in order to meet the need for training helicopters and light class general purpose helicopters, the Indigenous Helicopter is planned to make its first flight in the near future.
National Infantry Rifle (MPT-76)
A modern infantry rifle that meets the tactical and technical requirements and specifications of the Turkish Armed Forces, and that will serve in combat, day and night, in all kinds of terrain and weather conditions, has been designed and produced entirely within national capabilities.
Approximately 17,000 rifles have already been delivered.
Ammunition Projects
Many ammunition such as UMTAS, L-UMTAS, CİRİT used in our helicopters; MAM-C and MAM-L used in our UCAVs; and HGK, LGK, KGK used in our combat aircraft have started to be produced with national capabilities.
We can now say that we are no longer dependent on foreign countries for these munitions.
Korkut Low Altitude Air Defense System Project
Within the scope of the project, which was developed to provide air defense of land troops by detecting, identifying and destroying threats that overcome aircraft with medium and high altitude missiles, prototype deliveries have been completed and the serial production phase has started.
Precision Guided Stand-off Munition (SOM) Project
Serial production activities are ongoing within the scope of the project, which aims to develop an air-to-surface missile system with a range of 160 (+) km, which can be launched from F-4 and F-16 aircraft, to be used against heavily defended land and sea targets.
Bora Missile System Project
Within the scope of the Bora Missile System Project, which aims to design and manufacture a long-range surface-to-surface missile and weapon system, delivery tests were successfully completed.
Hisar Air Defense Missiles Project
In order to protect military bases, ports, facilities and units from air threats, low (HİSAR-A) and medium altitude (HİSAR-O) air defense missiles developed against fixed and rotary wing aircraft, cruise missiles, air-to-surface missiles and unmanned aerial vehicles are being taken into inventory.
Long Range Air and Missile Defense System Project
Work on the Long-Range Air and Missile Defense System, which will be jointly developed in the medium term and fully indigenous in the long term, is continuing rapidly.
Integrated Border Security System Project
The project aims to ensure the installation of surveillance and detection systems that constitute the Border Security System in the Asi River region of the Hatay province border line of the Turkey - Syria border, integration with the command and control software and the establishment of the necessary infrastructure elements.
ULAK Project
In order to meet the increasing military and civilian data communication needs, it is aimed to develop national software and hardware components of the 4G communication system, and it is expected to reduce foreign dependency on mobile communication technologies by increasing national capabilities and capabilities for 4G technologies.
Test activities in the project have been successfully completed and the project is ready for mass production.
Transportation
Domestic Brand Automobile Project
A protocol was signed on November 2, 2017 with the Joint Venture Group consisting of 5 company representatives to develop the domestic brand automobile project under the leadership of the private sector.
Turkey's Automobile Project, which was initiated to enable ownership of next-generation automobile technologies, will be realized rapidly.
In 2019, we will complete the prototype vehicle and launch our domestic electric car in 2021.
Gebze-Orhangazi-Izmir (Izmit Bay Crossing and Access Roads Included) Motorway Project
The Gebze-Bursa section of the US$ 6 billion 893 million motorway, including the Osmangazi Bridge, the world's 4th longest suspension bridge, has been completed and opened to traffic.
The construction of 219 km of the 433 km highway has been completed and the remaining 77 km is planned to be completed in 2018 and opened to traffic by the end of 2019.
As a result of the project carried out without allocating resources from the central budget with the Public-Private Partnership model, freight and passenger transportation will be carried out in a shorter time and more comfortably.
Northern Marmara Motorway Kınalı-Odayeri Section Project
The 80 km long highway, costing approximately 1 billion 198 million USD, is currently under construction.
The sections of the project that will serve the 3rd Airport will be put into service before the airport opens and the remaining sections will be completed in 2019.
Northern Marmara Motorway Kurtköy-Akyazı Section Project
Construction of the 170 km long highway, costing approximately 1 billion 998 million USD, is continuing rapidly and the entire project will be inaugurated in 2019.
Kınalı-Tekirdağ-Çanakkale-Savaştepe Motorway Project
The tender for the 101 km Malkara-Çanakkale section of the project, including the 1915 Çanakkale Bridge, which will be the longest suspension bridge in the world, was held in 2017 and is expected to be completed in 2022 with an investment cost of EUR 2 billion 537 million, including the 1915 Çanakkale Bridge.
The 334 km Ankara-Nigde Motorway Project is worth €1 billion 32 million.
The construction work of the project, which was tendered in 2017 through the Build-Operate-Transfer method, is ongoing, and with the completion of the highway, uninterrupted highway transportation will be provided from Edirne to Şanlıurfa.
Menemen -Çiğli-Aliağa-Çandarlı Motorway Project
With a total length of 74 km, including 50 km of highway and 24 km of connection roads, and a cost of approximately 371 million Euros, the tender for the project was made in 2017 and construction works are ongoing.
Aydin-Denizli Motorway Project
The tender for the 154 km long highway, costing approximately USD 870 million (excluding VAT and including 50% of expropriation), will be held in June 2018.
Mersin (Çeşmeli)-Erdemli-Silifke-Taşucu Motorway Project
The tender for the 92 km long highway, costing approximately 650 million USD (excluding VAT and including 70% of expropriation), will be held in August 2018.
2023 Perspective Other Priority Major Motorway Projects Ankara-Kırıkkale-Delice
Bu rdu r-Antalya-Ala nyaDenizli- Bu rdu r-A ntalyaAnkara-SivrihisarWith the realization of all these projects, the quality of our roads will improve, time savings will increase, and our infrastructure for economic and commercial activities will be strengthened.
Divided Road Projects
By the end of 2002, there were 6,101 km of divided roads, of which 1,714 km were highways, while as of April 1, 2018, the length of divided roads reached 26,017 km, of which 2,657 km were highways.
Thus, 19,916 km of divided roads, including 943 km of highways, were put into service.
The length of roads paved with hot asphalt, which increases the comfort and service life of roads, was increased from 8,591 km to 23,559 km.
In order to increase safety in highway transportation, to give our roads a world-class quality appearance, and to provide the best highway transportation opportunity to regions that have been neglected for years, divided road works will be continued and the length of divided roads, which is 26,017 km, is planned to be increased to 36,500 km by 2023.
Hasdal Junction-Kemerburgaz -Yassıören Ayr. State Road
The 43.5 km long project with a cost of 2.6 billion TL is targeted to be completed in 2019.
Large Tunnel Projects
While only 50 km of tunnels were constructed in the 1923-2002 period, 383 km of tunnels were constructed in 16 years.
Our road tunnel length, which is 433 km today, is targeted to be increased to 700 km by 2023.
Information on the latest status of the tunnels under construction in this context is given below: Ovit Tunnel (Rize-Erzurum, 14.7 km)
Until 2020, when the Zigana Tunnel is completed, the OVIT tunnel, the first "longest double-tube highway tunnel" in Turkey and Europe and the second "longest double-tube highway tunnel" in the world, is expected to become an important connection point for commercial roads in 2018.
The project has a total length of 17.3 km, including 14.3 km of double tube tunnels and 3 km of connection roads, and the right tube was opened to traffic to ensure transportation due to snowfall and mountain road closures.
The remaining works (including secondary works) are targeted to be completed by 2018.
The Cudi Tunnels connecting Cizre and Şırnak are 1.4 km long.
The 751 m Martyr Security Guard Dündar Page and 822 m Martyr Gendarmerie Captain Mustafa Erdal Tunnels have been completed at the final concrete lining level.
Secondary works continue in the tunnels.
34 tunnels, 39.8 km long, between Mersin and Antalya, making the Mediterranean Coast passable.
Within the scope of the project, 15 tunnels with a total length of 9.7 km were completed.
Ordu Ring Road Tunnels (4 units, 4.2 km).
The double tube Boztepe (6,621 m) and Öceli Tunnels (4,042 m) on the Ordu Ring Road were completed.
Within the scope of the project, 1,180 m long double tube Terzili Tunnel, 440 m long double tube T1 tunnel, 1,740 m long double tube Tunnel-2 and 816 m long double tube Tunnel-3 are under construction.
Geminbeli Tunnel (between Zara-Suşehri, two tubes, 4,230 m.)
Geminbeli tunnel is targeted to be completed in 2019
Eğribel Tunnel (between Giresun andŞebinkarahisar, two tubes, 6,000 m.)
The project includes a 5,900 m long double tube tunnel and a 1,800 m long access road.
In the Eğribel Tunnel, light has been seen in the left tube in the direction of Şebinkarahisar district and 512 m of excavation and support construction remains in the right tube.
Excavation and support works are ongoing.
Kop Tunnel (Erzurum-Bayburt, two tubes, 6,500 m.)
6,680 m of tunnel excavation and support have been carried out in the Kop Tunnel, which is a 6,500 m long double tube tunnel, and it is aimed to see the light at the end of 2019.
Dallıkavak Tunnel (Erzurum-Rize, two tubes, 3,100 m.)
4,271 m of tunnel excavation and support have been carried out in the Dalıkavak Tunnel, which is a 3,100 m long double tube tunnel.
Guzeldere Tunnel (between Van and Hakkari, two tubes, 3,900 m.)
The 3,137 m long Güzeldere Tunnel is a double tube tunnel and 2,440 m of tunnel excavation and support has been carried out so far.
Zigana Tunnel (between Trabzon and Gümüşhane, two tubes, 14,500 m.)
In the 14,500 m long Zigana Tunnel, which is a double tube tunnel, 12,585 m of tunnel excavation and support has been carried out in total.
In addition, a total of 5,347 m of concrete pavement works were completed.
Kirik Tunnel (Ispir-Erzurum, two tubes, 7,100 m.)
In the 7,100 m long Kırık Tunnel, which is a double tube tunnel, a total of 7,373 m of tunnel excavation and support has been carried out so far.
In addition, a total of 5,347 m of concrete pavement works were completed.
Demirkapi Tunnel (Antalya, single tube, 4,950 m.)
In the 4,950 m long tunnel, 3,230 m of excavation and supporting works have been carried out so far.
In addition, a total of 3,150 m of concrete pavement works were carried out. Construction works of the tunnel are ongoing.
Kahramanmaraş Göksun to 6th Region Border 4 Tunnels (17.683 m.)
Within the scope of the project, there are 13 tunnels with a total length of 17.683 m. 9 of these tunnels with a total length of 11.073 m have been completed.
The remaining 6.610 m will be completed.
Hassa Tunnel (Hatay-Kilis-Gaziantep, 4 tunnels, 19.240 m.)
The "Dörtyol-Hassa road", which has a standard of 31.33 km of divided road and double tube highway tunnel (19,000 m), has been included in the 2018 Investment Program as a new work and project works are ongoing.
Three-story Great Istanbul Tunnel Project
Within the scope of the project, which is the first 3-storey tunnel in the world, the metro tunnel needed by the 15 July Martyrs Bridge axis and the highway tunnel needed by the FSM Bridge axis will be combined and crossed with a single tunnel.
The project, which will integrate 9 different rail system lines, is expected to realize 6.5 million trips per day.
Survey and project studies are ongoing and it is planned to use the public-private partnership model for project financing during the construction phase.
Canal Istanbul Project
The Canal Istanbul Project, which will connect the Black Sea and the Sea of Marmara on the European side of Istanbul and has an approximate length of 45 km, is a large-scale project that will affect the economic, social and urban structure of the region.
Within the scope of the Survey Project and Consultancy service, the route of the Canal has been finalized as a result of the technical studies carried out, and geological, geotechnical, hydrogeological, ecological, etc. studies, navigation and in-channel traffic simulation studies and EIA studies of the Canal Project are ongoing.
Financial model studies for the construction and operation of the project are also ongoing.
Following the completion of the studies, the construction tender will be launched.
National Train Project
Domestic and national railway industry is being developed.
In order to gain competitiveness at the international level, National Electric and Diesel Train Sets and National High Speed Train studies are ongoing.
The project aims to develop our local industry, especially SMEs.
Ankara-Istanbul High Speed Railway Project
Work is underway to realize the high-speed train project, which will reduce the time between Ankara and Istanbul to 1.5 hours, through the BOT model.
Ankara-Polatli-Afyonkarahisar-Uşak-İzmir High Speed Train Project
The cost of the 508 km project under construction is 5.2 billion TL.
The Ankara-Afyonkarahisar-Uşak section is planned to be completed by the end of 2019 and the Uşak-Manisa-İzmir section by 2020.
This project, which will connect Central Anatolia with the Aegean, will also contribute to the integration of the national rail network.
Konya-Karaman-Mersin High Speed Train Project
The infrastructure and superstructure works of the first section (Konya-Karaman) of the line, which is 102 km long and cost 813 million TL, have been completed and opened for diesel operation.
The second section of the line, Karaman-Niğde (Ulukışla)-Yenice high speed train project, which has a route length of approximately 244 km and costing 2.9 billion TL, is under construction and is planned to be completed in 2021.
Modernization of Marmaray Suburban Lines Project
The railway strait tube crossing was opened in 2013.
The production of the vehicles has been completed and tests are ongoing.
Within the scope of the project, modernization of suburban lines has been completed by 81 percent and the project is expected to be completed by the end of 2018.
Ankara -Yozgat-Sivas High Speed Train Project
The 393 km long and TL 9.7 billion high-speed train line under construction is planned to be completed by the end of 2018 and will be commissioned in 2019.
Sivas-Erzincan High Speed Railway Project
The 245 km long Sivas-Erzincan railway line is being constructed in 4 sections and the contract for the first section (Sivas-Zara) has been signed and construction works are ongoing.
Tender process and project studies are ongoing in other sections.
The total cost of the project is 5.9 billion TL.
Yerkoy-Kayseri High Speed Train Project
The 142 km long high-speed train line costs 2.4 billion TL.
The pre-qualification tender for the project has been made and it is targeted to be completed in 2020.
Gebze-Sabiha Gökçen -avuz Sultan Selim Bridge-3. Airport-Halkalı New Railway The cost of the 124 km long high speed train line is 9 billion TL and it is planned to be tendered in 2018 and completed in 2023.
Halkalı-Kapıkule High Speed Train Project
The tender for the 230 km long and 3.2 billion TL Halkalı-Kapıkule High-Speed Train Line, which will bring the High-Speed Train to Europe, will be held at the end of 2018 and is planned to be completed in 2022.
Bursa-Bilecik High Speed Train Project
Infrastructure construction works are ongoing on the Bursa-Gölbaşı-Yenişehir (56 km) section of the line consisting of two sections.
The tender for the superstructure and EST construction of Bursa -Yenişehir section and the sub-superstructure and EST construction of Yenişehir-Bilecik (50 km) section has been made and is planned to be completed in 2020.
Other Priority High Speed Train Projects (Ongoing Project Studies)
- Antalya - Konya - Kayseri - Antalya - Isparta - Burdur - Kütahya - Eskişehir - Erzincan-Erzurum-Kars- Kırıkkale-Kırşehir-Aksaray-Ulukışla- Kırıkkale-Çorum-Samsun- Sivas-Malatya The survey projects of other lines planned to be built on the East-West and North-South axes in the 2023 perspective are ongoing.
106 High Speed Train Set Supply Project
Contracts have been signed for the first 10 projects with a cost of 15.8 billion TL.
The remaining 96 HSR sets will be procured in a way to support the national production of high-tech critical subsystems within the scope of the newly regulated Industrial Development Program (SIP) legislation.
Logistics Centers Project
In order to increase freight transportation by rail, it is planned to establish logistics centers in 21 locations and 8 of them have been put into operation.
1 logistics center is in the process of being put into service.
The number of logistics centers under construction is 5, 3 at the tender stage and 4 at the project stage.
Istanbul New Airport Project
The first phase of the new airport, which will make Turkey an important transfer center between Western Europe and the Far East, will be opened on October 29, 2018, with an investment of approximately EUR 10.2 billion and a lease cost of EUR 22.2 billion (+VAT) and will have a capacity of 200 million passengers when all phases are completed.
Cukurova Regional Airport Project
The Cukurova Regional Airport, which will serve the Çukurova Region at a cost of 1.2 billion TL, is expected to be completed in 2019.
Rize-Artvin Airport Project
With Rize-Artvin Airport, costing approximately 1.5 billion TL, an alternative air transportation infrastructure in the Eastern Black Sea region is being built as a sea fill.
The airport, which is envisaged to have a capacity of approximately 3 million passengers/year and has a contractual completion date of 2022, is targeted to be completed on 29.10.2020.
Bayburt-Gümüşhane Airport Project
With the Bayburt-Gümüşhane Airport, costing approximately 300 million TL, air transportation infrastructure in the region will be supported within the scope of the target of providing air transportation within every 100 km. The airport is expected to be completed in 2021.
Yozgat Airport Project
With Yozgat Airport, which costs approximately 250 million TL, air transportation infrastructure will be supported in the region within the scope of the target of providing air transportation within every 100 km distance.
The airport is expected to be completed in 2021
Karaman Airport Project
Karaman Airport, with a cost of approximately 180 million TL, will support the air transportation infrastructure in the region within the scope of the target of providing airline transportation every 100 km away.
The airport is expected to be completed in 2021.
Tokat New Airport Project
The air transportation infrastructure in the region will be supported by the Tokat New Airport, costing approximately 230 million TL.
The airport is expected to be completed and put into service in 2020.
Cesme Alacati Airport Project
Izmir Çeşme Alaçatı Airport, which is planned to be used for General Aviation services, has been tendered to be constructed within the scope of Build-Operate-Transfer and is expected to be completed and put into service in 2020.
West Antalya Airport Project
Air transportation infrastructure in the region will be supported with the West Antalya Airport, which is planned to be built with the BOT model.
The airport is expected to be completed and put into service in 2022.
New Terminal Buildings Project
Gaziantep Airport Terminal Building 2020, Nevşehir Cappadocia Airport Terminal Building 2020, Samsun Çarşamba Airport Terminal Building 2021, Kayseri Airport Terminal Building 2021, Malatya Airport Terminal Building 2021 are planned to be completed and put into service in 2021.
Filyos Port Project
The construction of Filyos Port, one of the main large-scale regional port projects, is continuing rapidly and will have a total cargo handling capacity of 25 million tons, including general cargo, RoRo, dry bulk and containers.
In the first half of 2019, the first phase is expected to be completed.
It is also aimed to realize the construction of the land and railroad connection of the port, for which survey project studies are being carried out.
When completed, the port will make a major contribution to the trade infrastructure and freight corridors in the Black Sea Region within the framework of the 2023 Vision.
Mersin Port Project
Expected to have a 12.8 million TEU capacity, the port will serve as an important large-scale regional main container port in the Eastern Mediterranean Region.
First of all, the port's zoning plan and the EIA process must be completed.
When completed, the port will make a major contribution to the trade infrastructure and freight corridors in our Mediterranean Region within the framework of the 2023 Vision, and will serve as a gateway to Anatolia, Central-Asia and the Middle East.
Çandarlı Port Project
When completed, the port will serve as an important regional transshipment port and logistics center for the Aegean Region.
The tender process of Çandarlı Port is underway with the Privatization or BOT model.
Within the framework of the 2023 Vision, it will make a great contribution to the trade infrastructure and logistics sector in our Aegean Region.
Golden Horn Complex Project
Costing 1.4 billion TL and to be realized with the BOT model, the project envisages a marina, life center, social and cultural areas.
Within the scope of the project, zoning plan works have been completed and construction will actually start after the approval of the Cultural Heritage Conservation Board.
KOSTER Fleet Renewal Project
With the project, we will renew 20 and more than 100 aging Koster ships used in maritime transportation by producing and renewing them with our domestic facilities and state-of-the-art technology.
Istanbul Tuesday Market Project
The privatization process for the Salıpazarı Cruise Port Site was completed with the contract signed in 2014 (worth USD 702 million) and investments are ongoing.
The project is expected to be completed in 2019.
We Serve Izmir Tourism with Marina Ports
A cruise port in Izmir and marinas in Bayraklı (Turan), Yeni Foça, Urla Çeşmealtı, Şakran, Seferihisar Ürkmez, Çeşme Şifne and Özdere are under construction.
Ankara Urban Transportation Projects
AKM-Gar-Kızılay Metro (Construction works are ongoing and the project is expected to be completed in 2021)
Esenboğa Airport Rail System Connection (The project is planned to be included in the 2018 Investment Program)
ANKARAY and Metro Extension Project
It is planned to extend ANKARAY by a total of 15 km with the 5 km West Line between AŞTİ and METU, the 10 km East Line between Dikimevi and Natavega (Eastern Ring Road), the 12 km Etlik Hospitals Line between Gar and Forum (Ovacık), and the 13 km Gar Kuyubaşı line between Gar and Kuyubaşı.
Izmir Urban Transportation Projects
Izmir Bay Crossing Project (IZKARAY) studies have been completed and the public-private partnership model is planned to be used for project financing.
The Izmir Bay Crossing project will enable traffic from the northern axis of Izmir to reach the southern axis of Izmir Bay without entering the city.
Thus, the route will be 43 km shorter than the ring road.
Halkapinar Otogar Metro: 4.5 km rail system line design works have been completed.
Tender preparations are underway and the project is planned to be completed in 2021.
IZBAN Tepeköy-Selçuk line of Egeray (Izban) was put into service in Izmir, increasing the suburban line length from 110 km to 136 km.
The construction contract for the Aliağa-Bergama line was signed to extend IZBAN by 50 km to the north.
When this section is completed, the total length will reach 186 km.
Istanbul Urban Transportation Projects
Üsküdar-Altunizade-Ümraniye-Dudullu (10.5 km section between Üsküdar-Ümraniye was put into service on December 15, 2017.
The remaining section is planned to be opened in the second half of 2018).
Kaynarca-Sabiha Gökçen Airport Metro (The project, which is under construction, is planned to be completed in 2021).
Kabataş-Mahmutbey Metro (The project, which is under construction, is planned to be completed in 2021).
Yenikapı-İncirli Metro (Incirli (Bakırköy) Sefaköy section of Bakırköy-Beylikdüzü Metro line in the Investment Program of NWTU DGoII and Yenikapı-İncirli Metro lines in the Investment Program of Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality were combined and included in the Investment Program of NWTU DGoII as "Yenikapı-İncirli-Sefaköy Metro line" project.
It is planned to be tendered in 2018).
Bakırköy-Bahçelievler-Kirazlı Metro Line (planned to be completed in 2021)
Gayrettepe - 3rd Airport Metro Line (planned to be completed in 2021)
Halkalı - 3rd Airport Metro Line (planned to be completed in 2022)
Ataköy-İkitelli Metro Line (planned to be completed in 2021)
Ümraniye-Ataşehir-Göztepe Metro Line (planned to be completed in 2022).)
Kaynarca-Pendik-Tuzla Metro Line (planned to be completed in 2022)
Çekmeköy-Sultanbeyli Metro Line (planned to be completed in 2022)
Kirazlı-Halkalı Metro Line (planned to be completed in 2023)
Başakşehir-Kayaşehir Metro Line (planned to be completed in 2022)
Mahmutbey-Bahçeşehir Metro Line (planned to be completed in 2023)
Konya Metro Project
21.3 km long "N. Erbakan Uni. -New YHT Station-Fetih Cad.-Meram Bld. Light Rail System Line" (Ring HRS) project is expected to be realized in 2018.
Gaziray Project
It is an urban rail system project in Gaziantep and will be implemented in cooperation with Gaziantep Municipality.
(The groundbreaking ceremony was held on April 21, 2018 and the project is expected to be completed in 2019).
Erzurum and Erzincan Tram Lines
Following the completion of the survey projects of these lines, construction tenders will be realized and the projects are planned to be put into service in 2022.
Kayseri Anafartalar-YHT Gar Tram Line
The evaluation of the application for the inclusion of the 7 km long rail system project in the 2018 Investment Program is ongoing.
The project is expected to be completed within three years.
Agriculture
Silvan I. Merhale Project
Within the scope of the 8.5 billion TL project, it is aimed to irrigate approximately 235 thousand hectares of land with the completion of the Silvan Dam and connected intermediate storages.
In the first half of 2020, the construction of Silvan Dam will be completed and it will be ready to hold water.
This will provide direct and indirect employment for at least 200 thousand people.
In addition, farmers' products and income will increase, land will become more valuable, and agriculture-based industry and trade will develop.
Suruc Plain Pumped Irrigation Project
With a cost of 2.5 billion TL, the project aims to irrigate a total area of 95 thousand hectares.
The 47 km Suruç Plain Irrigation Main Transmission Canal and 56 thousand hectares of irrigation investments, which will deliver the water to be pumped from Atatürk Dam to Taşbasan Storage, have been completed by the end of 2017, and the entire irrigation investments are scheduled to be completed by the end of 2022.
Land Consolidation and In-Field Development Services Project
A total of 6.1 million hectares were consolidated at a cost of 2.5 billion TL.
In 2018, another 800 thousand hectares of land will be consolidated and the consolidated area will reach 6.9 million hectares by the end of 2018.
As a result of these efforts, investment and operating costs will be reduced and the infrastructure for a much more competitive agricultural sector will be created.
Lower Euphrates 2nd Merhale Project
With a cost of 6.2 billion TL, the project aims to irrigate approximately 216,000 hectares of land.
To date, the network construction of approximately 43,000 hectares has been completed and construction works are still ongoing in 91,000 hectares.
In addition, an important unit of the project, the approximately 221,000 m Mardin Ceylanpınar Main Canal, has been completed.
Kralkızı-Dicle Project
With a cost of 4.9 billion TL, the project aims to irrigate approximately 115,000 hectares of land.
To date, the network construction of approximately 37,500 hectares of land has been completed and construction works are still ongoing in 65,000 hectares of land.
In addition, the construction of 198,000 m of the approximately 218,000 m gravity main canal, which is an important unit of the project, has been completed.
Bozova Pumped Irrigation
With a cost of 2 billion TL, approximately 60,000 hectares of land will be irrigated.
Within the scope of the GAP Action Plan, approximately 28,000 hectares of land has been made ready for irrigation and network construction is still ongoing in approximately 8,000 hectares of land.
Energy
Ilisu Dam and HEPP Project
Water will be pumped in 2018 and energy production will start in the first half of 2019.
The 1,200 MW power plant will cost 8.8 billion TL.
With the completion of this project, the energy potential of the GAP will be realized to a great extent, and the way will be paved for new projects such as the Cizre Dam and additional irrigation areas with these new projects.
Yusufeli Dam and HEPP Project
In February 2020, the dam construction will be completed and ready to hold water.
By the end of 2020, road displacements, resettlement and energy electromechanical and connection lines, which are the connected units of the project, will be completed and energy production will start.
The cost of the 558 MW power plant is 3.8 billion TL.
These and similar projects not only reduce our country's dependence on foreign energy, but also strengthen cleaner energy sources.
Trans Anatolian Natural Gas Pipeline (TANAP) Project
By mid-2018, the project is expected to start flowing 2 billion m3/year of gas to Turkey in the first phase.
Later, this amount will be increased to 6 billion m3/year.
In the long term, the TA-NAP pipeline capacity is planned to be increased to 31 billion m3/year.
The project will contribute to Turkey's goal of becoming an energy trade center.
The opening ceremony of the project will be held on June 12, 2018.
Turkish Stream Natural Gas Pipeline Project
The project involves the construction of two parallel pipelines, each with a capacity of 15.75 billion m3/year; the first pipeline is planned to deliver natural gas to Turkey and the second to Europe.
This project is planned to provide gas flow to our country in 2019.
Salt Lake Natural Gas Underground Storage Project
Within the scope of the 17.8 billion TL project, a total of 5.4 billion m3 of natural gas storage capacity will be achieved, the first part of which will be 1.2 billion m3 for security of supply.
This will reduce the risk of seasonal demand fluctuations and supply disruptions.
The project reached a storage capacity of 0.35 billion m3 by the end of 2017.
North Marmara Natural Gas Storage Expansion Project
Within the scope of the 4.3 billion TL project, the storage capacity of the facility in Silivri, Istanbul, which has a natural gas storage capacity of 2.8 billion m3 , will be increased to 4.6 billion m3 .
Scheduled to be completed in 2021, the tender for the project, which will contribute to ensuring the security of natural gas supply, was held in 2017 and the contract was signed on 17.01.2018 for approximately TL 2.6 billion.
Natural Gas Transmission Project to Provinces and Districts
By the end of 2019, natural gas supply will be provided to 222 districts and towns.
In this context, natural gas was delivered to 101 districts and towns (2.3 million citizens).
In addition, natural gas will be supplied to 98 more districts and towns as well as Hakkari, Şırnak and Artvin provinces by the end of 2018.
When the expansion investments are completed, natural gas will be available in 81 provinces, 554 districts and towns in Turkey.
Mersin Akkuyu Nuclear Power Plant Project
Work is underway to build the power plant with a total installed capacity of 4,800 MW.
The project aims to reduce our dependence on foreign energy, increase our energy resource diversity and raise the technological level of our country.
Sinop Nuclear Power Plant Project
With the project, which has a total installed capacity of 4,480 MW, our dependence on foreign energy will be reduced and our energy resource diversity as well as our technological capacity will be increased.
Solar YEKA Project
The tender for a 1,000 MW solar power plant in Karapınar was finalized at 6.99 US dollar cents/kWh.
The foundation of a solar module factory was laid to produce the panels to be used in the power plant domestically with an average 65% local content.
With the project, our country's dependence on foreign energy will be reduced, ingot, wafer and cell production competence will be gained and cleaner energy sources will be used.
Wind YEKA Project
The tender for a total of 1,000 MW of wind power plants to be built in various provinces was finalized at 3.48 US dollar cents/kWh.
A factory will be established to produce the panels to be used in the power plant domestically.
The project will reduce our country's dependence on foreign energy and ensure the use of cleaner energy sources.
Offshore Wind YEKA and Battery Storage Solar YEKA Projects
Preparations are underway for the first offshore YEKA with a capacity of 1,000 MW in wind energy and the second solar YEKA competition with battery storage in solar energy.
Drinking Water
Blue Tunnel Drinking Water Project
Costing 680 million TL, the project aims to collect the waters of the Göksu Basin in Bağbaşı, Bozkır and Afşar dams and transfer them to the Konya basin through the Blue Tunnel.
The project is envisaged to meet the long-term drinking water needs of Konya.
Ankara 2nd Stage Drinking Water Project Gerede System
Within the scope of the 1.2 billion TL project, the water from the Gerede Basin will be transferred to Çamlıdere Dam Lake by gravity through a 31.6 km long, 4.5 m diameter, 40 m3/s capacity transmission tunnel.
With the completion of the Gerede system, an average of 226 million m3 of additional water will be supplied annually, meeting Ankara's water demand until 2035.
Greater Istanbul Drinking Water 3rd Stage (Melen Dam) Project
Costing 960 million TL, the Greater Istanbul Potable Water Project aims to meet the drinking, utility and industrial water needs of the Istanbul metropolitan area until 2071 by utilizing the water potential of the Greater Melen Stream with the Melen Dam, which is being built within the scope of the Greater Istanbul Potable Water Project, and to generate hydroelectric energy.
Gaziantep Düzbag Drinking Water Project
Costing 1.9 billion TL, the project will provide the city of Gaziantep with long-term drinking, utility and industrial water supply until 2050 from Düzbağ and Kartalkaya Dams.
The project consists of a regulator, transmission line, pumping system and 1 tunnel, which will be located downstream of the future Düzbag Dam.
It is targeted to be completed by the end of 2019.
Environment
Ergene Basin OIZ Projects
Scattered industrial facilities in the Ergene Basin have been brought together under the same roof as 8 OIZs in Tekirdağ province and 2 OIZs in Kırklareli province.
Joint advanced wastewater treatment plants for industry and deep sea discharge to the Marmara Sea are being carried out within the framework of the plan.
558 million TL has been allocated for the 1.5 billion TL project so far.
In this context, the environmental problems of our Thrace Region are being addressed in a fundamental way.
Within the scope of the Ergene Basin Project, the Çerkezköy Line will be completed by the end of 2018 and the Ergene Line will be completed by the end of 2019, ensuring that the Ergene River flows clean.
Water and Sewerage Infrastructure Project (SUKAP)
With the program launched in 2011 to support municipalities' drinking water and sewerage projects, we provided 50 percent central budget grants for drinking water and sewerage projects in settlements with a population below 25 thousand.
We allocated 3.9 billion TL from the central budget to the program.
Under the program, 1,242 projects with a cost of 8.2 billion TL were launched.
Solid Waste Program (KAP)
Within the scope of the project, solid waste collection, transportation, recovery and disposal facilities of local governments will be financed through a SUKAP-like structure within the principles of the Solid Waste Master Plan.
National Gardens Project
30 Green Spaces and Five Grand National Garden Projects in Istanbul
The entire Ataturk Airport will be transformed into a National Garden for Istanbul with the commissioning of the new airport.
Thus, a large-scale living space, which has examples in modern big cities around the world, will be brought to Istanbul.
Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality will complete 30 green area projects totaling 11.4 million m2 , including 18 projects under construction on an area of 7.9 million m2 and 12 projects to be realized on an area of 3.5 million m2 .
In addition, TOKİ will complete four large city park projects in Başakşehir, Maslak, Pendik and Bakırköy, which will cover a total green area of 1.4 million m2 , of which 0.3 million m2 is under construction.
In addition, the Nation Gardens Project will be realized throughout our country, especially in Eskişehir, Bursa, Trabzon, Gaziantep, Adana and Mersin.
R&D
Thematic Research Laboratories Project
There are 131 completed and 109 ongoing thematic research laboratory projects in public institutions and universities.
A total of approximately 6 billion TL has been allocated to these projects.
These infrastructures will continue to be supported in the coming period.
In order to ensure more effective use and sustainability of the established research infrastructures, support has started to be provided to infrastructures within the scope of the Law No. 6550 on Supporting Research Infrastructures.
These supports will continue.
In the first phase, the following infrastructures were supported.
METU MEMS Center
Izmir Biomedicine and Genome Center (IBG
) Sabancı University Nanotechnology Research and Application Center (SUNUM
) Bilkent University National Nanotechnology Research Center (UNAM)
Central Research Laboratories Project
96 universities were supported to establish central research laboratories to meet the need for common research infrastructure and to provide a suitable environment for researchers.
A total of 58 projects have been completed and 38 are ongoing, with a total resource allocation of approximately TL 1.4 billion.
Golden Horn Science and Technology Center
The Haliç Science and Technology Center (HBTM), which will be built on an area of approximately 70 thousand m2 at the Haliç Shipyard, will be the largest Science and Technology Center in Europe.
HBTM, which will become a "Science, Human and Civilization" themed center built with domestic and national technologies, is expected to host approximately 2 million visitors annually with its education and technology workshops, incubation centers, thematic/digital library, experience center, exhibition halls and show centers, video mapping area.
National Breakthrough in Industry, Milat 2018 Project
We will initiate great breakthroughs in science, technology and industry with the Milestone 2018 Project, which consists of the entirety of projects and programs that will strengthen the national and domestic identity of the Turkish industrial revolution, contribute to its technological transformation, steadily increase the share of high-tech products in our exports, and reduce our current account deficit.
e-Government and Communication
e-Government Gateway Project
The e-Government Gateway, which currently offers 3,220 public services of 449 public institutions and has 37.5 million registered users, has reached 200 million monthly average usage.
By 2023, it is aimed to provide all public services through the e-Government Gateway.
Republic of Turkey Identity Card Dissemination Project
Costing 313 million TL, the electronic identity card project will facilitate service delivery and reduce identity fraud.
The distribution of ID cards started in Kırıkkale in March 2016 and across Turkey in January 2017.
To date, 21,657,008 identity cards have been issued.
By the end of 2020, it is planned to be distributed to all citizens (including those abroad).
With the 3 in One application, Driver's License, Passport and ID card issuance procedures are carried out with a single biometric data.
Since April 2, 2018, 149,153 passports and 174,851 driver's licenses have been issued.
Emergency Call System (112) Project
The 112 Emergency Call Centers Project is being carried out for 81 provinces in order to gather emergency call numbers, which are more than one, under a single number (112) in 81 provinces.
A total of 775 million TL worth of projects completed in 24 provinces are underway and it is aimed to provide a much faster service delivery to our citizens.
112 Emergency Call Centers will be operational in 76 provinces in 2018 and in 81 provinces by June 2019.
Urban Security Management System (UPSMS) Project
Within the scope of the project costing 754 million TL, 81 provinces and 508 districts were provided with the Urban Security Management System (KGYS), which consists of camera and license plate recognition systems that contribute greatly to crime prevention and illumination.
In addition, the use of mobile license plate recognition systems has begun.
With the project, the installation of which will be completed throughout Turkey in 2018, the system will be operational with 75,667 cameras at 22,468 points.
Integration of License Plate Recognition Systems between the General Directorate of Security and the General Command of Gendarmerie has been ensured, and the number of PTS points has been increased to 1,958 and will be installed at 1,667 more points until December 31, 2018.
At 190 points, Mobile PTS installation has been completed.
Mobile PTS installation is planned at 758 more points in 2018.
Public Integrated Data Center Project
The project will ensure the integration of public data centers and effective service provision in the coming period.
Feasibility study preparation is ongoing.
Following the completion of the feasibility study, necessary works such as design, standards, legal regulations, construction, etc. will be carried out.
Audio and Video Communication System (SEGBIS) Project
Costing 116 million TL, the project aims to take testimony and defense statements, video record and use video conferencing in hearings.
This will contribute to faster and more efficient administration of justice.
Within the scope of the project, system installation has been realized in 3,874 locations and 90 percent of the project has been completed.
The project, which is planned to be completed in 2019, includes the installation of systems and infrastructure in 786 more locations.
Spatial Address Registration System (MAKS) Data Production and Dissemination Project
Costing 440 million TL, the project aims to match text-based address information with geographical coordinates to give this information a spatial dimension.
In 2017, authorized administrations in 31 provinces made MAKS operational, and in 2018, authorized administrations in 35 provinces are targeted to make MAKS operational.
To date, 4 million 340 thousand buildings have been digitized and this number will be increased to 8 million in 2018.
The project, which is expected to be completed in 2019, will also be used as a basis for other projects that require spatial address information.
e-Municipality (Cloud Municipality) Project
With the project, all municipalities will be brought together in a common online database and the services they provide to citizens, correspondence and other transactions will be transferred to the electronic environment.
In addition, common standards will be developed for municipalities in terms of services provided to citizens.
With the realization of the project, municipalities will save approximately 2 Billion TL.
Mukhtar Information System Project
Efforts have been made to increase the effectiveness of our mukhtars, who are the most extreme representatives of the local and central administration in the provinces, and to improve their personal and other rights. In addition to their acceptance by our President, joint meetings with governors and district governors are held locally to increase communication and coordination between the central administration and local administrations.
Overseas programs were carried out to increase the knowledge and experience of our Muhtars.
The Mukhtar Information System (MUBIS) was established within the Ministry of Interior in order to ensure the effective transmission and follow-up of our mukhtars' requests to public institutions.
Establishment of Infrastructure in Settlements without Mobile Communication Infrastructure Project
With the TL 1.5 billion project, it is planned to provide communication services with 4.5G technology in settlements without mobile communication infrastructure until 2020 within the scope of universal service.
Communication Satellite Project
Domestic Communication Satellite: Turksat 6A
The production of the first domestic communication satellite, Turksat 6A, continues at the Space Systems Integration and Test Center (USET) established at TAI facilities.
The project, which will enable Turkey to be among the 10 countries capable of producing communication satellites, is planned to be completed in 2020 and launched into space in 2021.
New Satellite Projects: Turksat 5A and 5B
The production of Türksat 5A and 5B satellites, our new satellite projects aimed at increasing the satellite communication capacity of our country and protecting our orbital rights, has started.
By launching Turksat 5A in 2020 and Turksat 5B in 2021, we aim to be among the first 5 countries to use the new Ku-Band frequency.
Camlica TV-Radio Tower Project
The 452 million TL project aims to gather terrestrial broadcast transmitters at a single point and remove dozens of antennas that cause visual pollution on the Istanbul skyline, and to provide a new center that will host millions of tourists every year by offering the opportunity to watch Istanbul from hundreds of meters high.
The project, the completion year of which is 2019 in the Investment Program, is targeted to be completed by the end of 2018.
Other Important e-Government Projects
Integrated Social Assistance Services Project Taxpayer Compliance Management Systems Project New Generation Payment Recording Devices Project Forest Information System Project (ORBIS) Social Security Integration Project (SGEP) National Geographic Information System Infrastructure Project Public Secure Network Project Supreme Election Board Data Center Project Cloud Municipality Project
Regional and Rural Development, Urbanization
Southeastern Anatolia Project (GAP)
The GAP Action Plan, which covers the provinces of Mardin, Diyarbakır, Şanlıurfa, Adıyaman, Batman, Gaziantep, Kilis, Siirt, Şırnak, Diyarbakır, Şanlıurfa, Adıyaman, Batman, Gaziantep, Kilis, Siirt and Şırnak, envisaged a resource allocation of 26.7 billion TL for the 2014-2018 period, and 17.1 billion TL was spent between 2014-2017.
As a result of these investments, the amount of irrigated area in the region, which reached 425 thousand hectares in 2014, will reach 1.1 million hectares by the end of 2018, the end of the Action Plan period,
The unemployment rate in the region, which was 15.6 percent in 2014, is targeted to be reduced to 10.3 percent in 2018.
The construction of the Ilısu Dam and Hydroelectric Power Plant (HEPP) with an installed capacity of 1,200 megawatts, one of the most important projects of the Action Plan and the vision of the Southeastern Anatolia Project (GAP), has reached 97% physical realization.
With the completion of Ilısu Dam and HEPP, physical realization in GAP energy investments will exceed 90% and the construction of Cizre Dam will be enabled.
With the completion of the dam, an average of 4.12 billion kilowatt hours of energy will be generated annually, thus contributing 1.3 billion TL to the national economy annually from electricity generation alone.
and to provide job opportunities for 4,000 people.
TL 855 million was allocated for the project in 2018.
The project is expected to be completed by 2019.
The Silvan Dam Project, one of the most important projects under the GAP Action Plan, aims to irrigate 235 thousand hectares of land in the region.
Providing job opportunities for 300 thousand people in the region upon completion of the project
and to make a direct contribution of 1.2 billion liras per year to the national economy.
Over 1 billion TL has been spent on the project so far, and 406 million TL has been allocated for 2018.
Currently, the physical realization of Silvan Dam Construction is 48% as of 2018.
The project is expected to be completed by the end of 2021.
Eastern Anatolia Project (DAP)
For the Eastern Anatolia Project Action Plan covering Ardahan, Kars, Iğdır, Erzurum, Ağrı, Erzincan, Tunceli, Elazığ, Malatya, Muş, Bingöl, Bitlis, Van and Hakkari provinces, a resource of 21 billion TL was envisaged for the 2014-2018 period and 19 billion TL was spent in the 2014-2017 period.
Within the scope of the Action Plan, Small Scale Agricultural Irrigation Project is being carried out by DAP RDA in order to increase the irrigation area in the DAP Region and to expand the productivity, diversity and production areas in the region's crop and animal production.
Within the scope of the project, 276 million TL has been spent and a total area of 135,000 hectares has been opened to irrigation.
Eastern Black Sea Project (DOKAP)
For the Eastern Black Sea Project Action Plan, which covers the provinces of Artvin, Rize, Trabzon, Giresun, Ordu, Samsun, Bayburt, Gümüşhane, Tokat, Samsun, Rize, Trabzon, Giresun, Samsun, Samsun, Bayburt, Gümüşhane and Tokat, 10.4 billion TL of resources were envisaged to be used in the 2014-2018 period, and 18.4 billion TL of expenditures were realized in the 2014-2017 period.
Within the scope of the DOKAP Action Plan, 226,888,906.83 TL was allocated to the Green Road Project implemented within the scope of the Eastern Black Sea Tourism Master Plan Implementations between 2013-2017, and a total of 800 km of road construction, including 318.99 km of road maintenance and repair, 137.50 km of stabilized coating, 343.45 km of superstructure roads, and 13 bridges were completed.
With the Green Road Project, important plateaus and tourism centers of 9 provinces in the DOKAP Region will be connected to each other, local and foreign tourists coming to the region will be enabled to travel comfortably along the designated route and a tourism structure integrated with nature will be created.
Konya Plain Project (KOP)
For the Konya Plain Project Action Plan covering the provinces of Konya, Karaman, Aksaray, Niğde, Kırıkkale, Kırıkkale, Kırşehir, Nevşehir and Yozgat, a resource of 9.9 billion TL was envisaged to be used in the 2014-2018 period, and an expenditure of 8.6 billion TL was realized in the 2014-2017 period.
KOP Administration carries out Small Scale Irrigation Works Program (SSIP) for the rehabilitation of existing irrigation systems and expansion of pressurized irrigation systems in Aksaray, Karaman, Konya and Niğde provinces in the region in order to prevent drought, increase efficiency in irrigation and productivity in production.
In Kırıkkale, Kırşehir, Nevşehir and Yozgat provinces, which have recently joined the KOP Project area, KOPP projects have started to be implemented.
Within the scope of KÖSİP, a total of 552,836,944 TL was allocated to the provinces in the region between 2011-2017.
Thanks to the pond and irrigation projects and rehabilitation projects carried out within the scope of KÖSİP, 105 thousand ha of land will be provided with modern irrigation systems enabling efficient water use with approximately 640 projects throughout the region (with the completion of 2017 projects).
With KÖSİP, a net income of 420 million TL was generated from projects mostly in mountainous rural areas, providing employment opportunities for 210 thousand people.
Rural Development and Supporting the Infrastructure of Villages Project (KÖYDES)
A total of 12.33 billion TL at current prices has been allocated to the project, which aims to eliminate long-standing drinking water and road problems in rural areas.
In the coming period, projects will continue to be developed and implemented with a rural development perspective.
KIRDES Project
Within the scope of the project, 300 million TL has been invested to meet the local, common needs of citizens living in rural areas in metropolitan cities excluding Istanbul and Kocaeli provinces, and 400 million TL is planned for 2018.
To date, 2,512,428 m2 of parquet roads, 557 km of rural roads (740,034 citizens in 986 neighborhoods benefited), 39 condolence houses (71,889 citizens benefited) and 18 irrigation facilities (14,662 citizens benefited).
In 2018, it is targeted that 1,705,386 people in a total of 2,247 neighborhoods will benefit from these services with road construction, drinking water, irrigation and social reinforcement works to be carried out and 300 km of hot asphalt, 195 km of concrete roads, 6,920,115 m2 of parquet and 17 art structures will be constructed.
Urban Transformation Projects
Within the scope of urban transformation practices, work will continue in line with the target of transforming 7.5 million units in 15 years.
The housing needs of our people will be met in a safer, less energy-intensive and more qualified environment.
Currently, 550 thousand houses in 218 Risk Areas in 52 provinces and 560 thousand houses in risky buildings identified throughout the country are being renovated.
Social Support Projects
Social Support Program (SODES)
8,773 projects with a total value of 1.8 billion TL were supported for disadvantaged groups under the Program, which was launched in 2008 in GAP Provinces and expanded to 34 provinces.
The project will be carried out even more effectively in the coming period.
Family Social Support Program (ASDEP)
The program will ensure that services are accessible to all groups in need, that individuals in need of social services first become self-sufficient in the environment they live in, and that families in need of social services and assistance are provided with on-site, effective and widespread services.
So far, 3,000 ASDEP staff have been employed.
With the employment of 4,000 more personnel in the coming period, the completion of the legislative infrastructure and the IT infrastructure, which has reached a certain stage, the Program will be implemented effectively throughout the country.
