1965 ELECTION MANIFESTO
REPUBLICAN PEASANT NATIONAL PARTY
Great and beloved Turkish Nation!
Dear Voter Citizens!
October 10, 1965 National Assembly elections will be an important day in the life and destiny of our nation and state.
You are in a day of great decision and judgment!
The wisdom and accuracy in their will, decision and vote can bring prosperity, happiness and peace to our beloved homeland.
We hope that God will help you in your decision and that the outcome will be auspicious for our great nation and our beloved homeland.
Dear Voter Citizen!
"As CKMP, we are confident that with the parliamentary elections to be held on October 10, 1965, one of the great political experiences that we are going through as a nation on the way to the government of the people, for the people and with the people will be realized with great patriotic consciousness.
This election has features that our electoral citizens will pay close attention to in terms of the results of the last four years of parliamentary and coalition governments.
The political experience of the last four years has shown that political parties, regardless of the number of their members in the Grand National Assembly, sometimes take part in the formation of the government and in the administration of the State on an equal footing, assuming "equal influence and collective responsibility".
It was understood that in order to be effective and successful in the government, the number of votes in the Grand Assembly was not sufficient and that the superiority of quality prevailed.
Now, on election day, we invite you to think about the general world situation, the state of the State and the future of our nation!
GENERAL WORLD SITUATION:
We live in a rapidly changing world; modern and neighboring nations are moving forward with giant strides.
This is the age of the atom, the age of mass mechanized production, the age of automation, the age of the missile.
Advanced nations possess great power, wealth and prosperity.
Day by day, their power and means are increasing.
Technique has made the world smaller, distances closer, international relations closer, and the destinies of nations more interconnected.
However, the idea and ideal of international cooperation and assistance has not gained the desired strength and value in the world and in the conscience.
In international relations, brute force still determines the outcome, not the belief in rights and justice.
An international organization capable of maintaining world peace in conflicts of great interest has not achieved the desired success.
There is a danger of war.
Moreover, the warfare of the age is so destructive that it can lead to the extinction of weak nations.
THE STATE OF OUR STATE AND NATION;
Turkey today is a backward country.
Our national economy,
production techniques,
working
and living conditions lag behind the conditions and measures prevailing in the world and in the age.
As heirs of a history and homeland full of glory and honor, as children of a nation that led the world civilization and peace for centuries, we do not consider the situation we are living in worthy of the blessed memories of our ancestors.
We are tormented by belonging to a backward world and begging for help from other nations.
The vast majority of the people of Turkey live in troubled and painful living conditions.
Nutrition,
health, housing and
education conditions are poor.
The lives of the majority of the people are spent hungry.
The toll of malnutrition and undernutrition on children and young people and on the working class is terrible.
10% of the population is permanently ill.
This means that in every family hearth, there is a patient.
The housing conditions of the majority of the population are poor.
In the villages, where 77% of the population live, almost all the houses are dry mud, rubble and stone piles.
60% of city houses are tin-covered shanties, unsanitary, ramshackle shacks in need of repair.
The vast majority of the population is uneducated.
60% of the population is deprived of the opportunity to read, write and learn.
The beginning of the efforts and moves to get out of these situations and conditions goes back 46 years.
War of Independence and Atatürk's reforms, overcoming the conditions of bondage and backwardness
to take an honorable and secure place in the civilized world,
to build a happy, prosperous and strong Turkey.
The conditions and circumstances that forced our nation to wage a war of independence 46 years ago have not changed significantly.
The result of the August 30th victory was, as Atatürk had foreseen and foretold, "economics,
Technique,
not confirmed by the triumph of culture".
A happy, strong Turkey has not been realized.
DEAR TURKISH NATION:
Our belief is this: The Turkish Nation is capable of much greater achievements.
The Turkish Nation can rise far above its present level under the guidance of people's leaders who know, understand and live like themselves.
And sooner or later it will rise.
For this, you have to evaluate the world conditions, the situation of the country and the 1961-65 period well.
The leaders of the EP, who have come to power twice, do not have the power and capacity to fulfill anything they promised you secretly and openly.
It is obvious that these handful of people, who are eager to rule the masses of pure people as they please, cannot serve the great Turkish Nation in any serious way.
Likewise, since the CHP leaders were accustomed to keeping the CHP under their tutelage, they showed that they were incapable of any kind of success in their attempts for power in the 1961-65 period.
Moreover, one of these ill-fated experiments was called the reform government.
Even so, he has never touched a reform.
SAINTED TURKISH NATION:
The CKMP, which has made more valuable services and additions to the new Constitution than any other party, has
today entered your command and service under the leadership of a new service staff.
This cadre, your freedom
and for your peace,
It is made up of sons and daughters who have proven time and again that they are dedicated and ready to sacrifice their lives for the democratic republic.
This cadre is the cadre of national idealists who have replaced the state of restraint with a state of service and welfare for the people.
This cadre is the same cadre
and is completely opposed to the Marxist idea of adventure and experimentation.
The cause of the rise of the Turkish Nation in freedom, preserving its historical personality and national identity,
modem national state
and a defender of the idea of civilization.
THE NOBLE TURKISH NATION:
The CKMP is waiting for your mandate to serve in the 1965 elections to build a prosperous, strong and happy Turkey.
The program and declaration of the CKMP is an expression of national service and our sincere commitment to honor.
The CKMP is committed to the leadership of the second phase of the Turkish national liberation movement, to taking Turkey out of the conditions of a backward country, to overcoming hunger and poverty,
unemployment
neglect,
to defeat uneducation,
to save the people from bad and incompetent governance.
Listen to us, read our program, think.
Give the trust to the people.
As we believe in God, we believe in the high capability and common sense of the Turkish nation and that we will succeed.
OUR FUNDAMENTAL BELIEFS
1 - For us, the unity and integrity of Turkey and the Turkish nation,
happiness and well-being are above all thoughts.
We are against all kinds of behavior that divides, separates and creates discord in society.
The history of Turkey and the Turkish homeland is the common work of our ancestors and all of us.
We will protect it together, with thoughts of peace and brotherhood.
2 - The security of the democratic regime is among our most important issues.
If the regime is shaken, we will all go down together.
We will work for the perfection of the regime, demand the Constitution and the rule of law, and protect freedoms.
3 - For economic prosperity and social peace, "legal, political
economic
and social justice".
The reorganization of the State and the Nation is necessary in order to quickly liberate Turkey from the backwardness of its economic structure, from the wreckage of its economic structure, from poverty and impossibility, and we will realize this.
4 - A service that smiles and makes people smile, not a state of restraint
and we want a welfare state.
It crushes today's costly civil servants,
We will regulate the state organization, which has become an oppressive device that wearies the people, through administrative reforms.
We will ensure the fusion of the people and the state, we will ensure that the services of the administration reach the people adequately, easily, quickly and without burden, and we will
ensure the absolute impartiality of the administration in the service of the people against political influences and preferences.
5 - The state cannot remain indifferent and indifferent to the nutritional conditions and impossibilities of the people.
It will be the duty of the state to examine and regulate the nutritional conditions and food regime of all the people of Turkey.
A food-nutrition regime and standard for the whole nation, taking into account regional and climatic conditions, will be established.
It will increase the production of foodstuffs and agricultural products all over the country,
Measures will be taken to improve their quality.
The state, which has the duty to find jobs, open up employment opportunities and provide livelihoods for everyone, will prevent the food regime of the citizen from falling below the determined standards.
High levels of production and consumption of meat, fat, milk, vegetables, fruit and vegetables is a preliminary goal that we value highly.
In our period of service, Turkey will cease to be a country of hungry freemen and full captives.
Meat, oil, sugar, fruits and vegetables will no longer be luxury foods, but will enter every home.
6 - It is our unchangeable aim that every family in the village and in the city should have a beautiful, strong and healthy house.
To this end, we will mobilize construction in cities and villages.
We will build new neighborhoods, towns, cities, modern cities and villages with brand new dwellings, block apartment buildings with gardens.
As families are resettled in new dwellings, we will liquidate slum squalor, shacks and caves.
7 - The life and health of the people cannot be traded.
We will put health care, medicine and pharmacy at the service of our nation.
It will be the duty of the state to provide free health care, treatment and medicines to the entire population.
We will ensure adequate and balanced distribution of health services throughout the country.
We will seriously develop the fight against diseases and preventive medicine.
8 - We will insure all citizens through the State Insurance Institution under the Ministry of Social Affairs.
We will ensure that every citizen, women over 55 years of age, men over 65 years of age, in short, every citizen will have the right to retire.
9 - We will reorganize the national education service throughout the country.
Through educational reform and mobilization, we will provide every citizen with the highest educational and training opportunities appropriate to his/her abilities.
We will swiftly correct the injustice in the utilization of education services.
We will reorganize education and training in accordance with national development plans and objectives.
10 - It is our duty to utilize and mobilize labor power to ensure Turkey's rapid development.
11 - Agriculture, soil
and industrial reform are among our fundamental efforts.
12 - Among citizens, blessings and burdens should be distributed fairly on the basis of ability, culture, work and merit.
13 - Every citizen must enjoy the benefits of the regime and the social order in equality of opportunity.
favoritism and bribery must be eradicated.
14 - We will revive the economic and social facilities that have examples in our history, and we will establish modern cooperation facilities among citizens.
15 - We will protect and develop the middle class, the backbone of Turkish society.
16 - Peasants and peasants, who constitute the majority of our population
We will address the fundamental issues of working citizens with realistic and social methods.
17 - The labor of workers will be evaluated according to Turkey's economic and social realities and goals.
18 - We will fully secure legitimate and national-interest capital against communism, which exploits social currents.
19 - In order to make Turkish art strong, vibrant and useful in the development of Turkish society, we will protect and support artistic life and artists.
20 - We will protect, develop and raise the spiritual and moral values of Turkish society.
21 - We will utilize and exploit Turkish oil and minerals for the benefit of the Turkish Nation.
22 - CKMP recognizes that every Turk has an important place and duty in Turkey and Turkey has an important place and duty in the world.
In the light of this principle, we are in favor of the peaceful settlement of disputes all over the world.
23 - In the face of attitudes and behaviors that may disturb Turkey's place, honor and dignity, interventions required by the LAW OF STATES should be initiated energetically and decisively with a personal and national foreign policy.
We have the same decision and will on Cyprus.
It is past time to act with some reprisals, without pushing the principles of the LAW OF STATES.
Swift decisions must be taken and implemented.
OUR VIEWS, AIMS AND OBJECTIVES FOR A PROSPEROUS AND STRONG TURKEY:
Human rights and freedoms in Turkey
well-being of the individual and society
and peace of mind,
To rapidly establish a state order and administration, with all its institutions, that will realize and guarantee social security.
Our party is national,
democratic,
is committed to the ideal of a secular, social state of law,
Freedom,
nationality,
morality,
Science,
socialism
Development,
sincerely believes in the principles of populism, peasantism and industrialization.
YOUTH:
We want the young generations raised with the upbringing and ideals of the Republic to assume the honorable responsibility of rebuilding Turkey and to take up positions of service.
Our Party considers it necessary to educate the youth in this sense.
ATATURISM :
Ataturkism, peace,
to freedom
love for human value,
To Turkishness, love,
We see and accept it as a belief in the Leadership of knowledge.
OUR UNDERSTANDING OF JUSTICE
The CKMP sees justice as an indivisible ideal of justice in all its political, economic, social and legal aspects.
It recognizes it as an unshakable and unshakeable will to give everyone his or her due.
For the CKMP, right is not only a moral goal, an element of faith, but also a practical, practical result that must be realized.
We believe in right and justice and we consider justice as the foundation of property.
OUR VIEW OF RELIGION î
CKMP considers freedom of religion and conscience as an inseparable root of human freedoms.
We are against despising and attacking religion, religious feelings and religiously sacred objects.
We consider it essential that the spiritual foundations be considered together with the material foundations.
In this respect, we aspire to an ethical system based on love, respect and duty.
We believe that man is a moral being.
We want this spirit to prevail in society, in political life, in all institutions of service and education.
Therefore, we will ensure that religious education institutions provide services at a level and quality appropriate to the needs.
We will ensure that our clergymen are equipped with modern science and that they have the material means to perform their duties comfortably.
We will develop the Faculty of Theology and the Higher Islamic Institute, we
see imam Hatip schools as vocational high schools, we aim to expand them.
We will also employ our graduates as teachers in schools.
At the same time, we will remove the records that prevent the graduates of such vocational high schools from attending universities and colleges.
We will ensure that religion and ethics classes are introduced in all grades in primary and secondary education and taught by qualified teachers.
NATIONALISM :
We recognize Turkish nationalism as the ideal of love, loyalty and service to the Turkish nation, culture and state.
In this respect, we are determined to support and develop all nationalist associations.
We see the revival of the national ideal and national culture as the greatest challenge to be addressed.
We prioritize the welfare and happiness of the people of Turkey above the interests of individuals, groups, classes and parties.
FAMILY :
Our party, which considers family unity as a high spiritual value and the foundation of the Turkish Nation, will take measures to protect and strengthen this unity.
It will promote women's rights and cherish them in Turkish society.
The CKMP will prioritize the service that the state and the nation owe to children who grow up without compassion, care and education due to the poverty of their families, the inadequacies and impossibilities of their environment.
It will establish the necessary organizations for the protection of orphans, orphans and poor children.
Our party is against contraception and will try to provide adequate assistance to families with many children.
SOCIAL JUSTICE :
We believe that all citizens should share in the national income according to the principles of social justice, in proportion to their labor, initiative, ability, effort, service and achievements.
We consider it a matter of social justice to give priority to the development of backward regions of the country.
We will organize tax, investment and expenditure policy according to the principles of social justice.
PRIVATE ENTERPRISE
Within the framework of the concept of social state, our party believes in the necessity of protecting, developing and supporting the entrepreneurial spirit and creative ideas of the private person in the national economy.
VILLAGE AND PEASANTRY :
We consider the development of our peasants and villages as a preliminary and fundamental issue in our cause of national upliftment.
We consider it a national and moral duty to overcome the present poverty and misery of the peasant and to bring him to the prosperity and peace he deserves.
We believe that village development work should be accelerated rapidly in order to alleviate the immense suffering of the peasants.
WORKERS' RIGHTS AND OUR LABOR CASE :
We will bring the Turkish worker to the prosperity and peace he deserves as soon as possible.
We will ensure the valorization of labor and prevent the exploitation of the worker.
Our aim is to develop trade unions and to further legalize workers' rights.
We will solve the housing and education problems of workers as soon as possible.
We will prevent unemployment, we will make sure that employment is provided by the state, and we will ensure that the worker receives his/her usual full wage on days when he/she is not working or cannot work.
OFFICERS :
We have identified all the sufferings of our civil servants.
We will solve their housing problems in a planned way.
It is our most sincere ambition to raise the level of living standards of civil servants, to improve their opportunities and to provide them with a peaceful and happy life.
INDUSTRIALIZATION :
We consider it essential to realize the industrial revolution rapidly and to establish factories in favorable places in the country.
We want Turkey to become an industrial country.
OUR NATIONAL POPULATION POLICY:
We will establish all the necessary medical, social, economic and financial organizations for Turkey to reach a level of strength in terms of population and we will realize the ideal of a great Turkey.
OUR NATIONAL EDUCATION POLICY:
Turkey's civilization and culture,
Our party, which sees Turkey's development move in national education and training, will consider it an honorable duty to fulfill the principles of education and training in its program.
It will address all the issues of the devoted Turkish teacher and find solutions for them, it will
address the appointment and promotion of teachers and additional course fees from scratch and in the direction of the welfare of teachers.
CKMP sees the future of Turkey in the enlightened hands and work of idealist and virtuous teachers.
SPORT AND PHYSICAL EDUCATION:
We see sports as an activity that will protect the physical and mental health of the nation.
In this respect, we consider it necessary to develop all kinds of sports activities and to increase the number of facilities.
In particular, we aim to develop our national sports.
The CKMP will give importance to indoor sports centers and indoor swimming pools, and will encourage the teaching and adoption of national games in schools and public education.
OUR GENERAL VIEW ON ART:
We will put art and culture under the command of a new ministry.
We will establish new institutions for the education of our people through art and improve the old ones.
We will direct the fine arts towards a specific goal.
A planned period will prevail in our administration instead of coincidences and temporary behaviors, and international contacts will not be left to coincidence.
In our art and culture studies, we will leave aside the use of art as a tool for ideological conflicts, document the old and new "Contemporary" movements in terms of Turkish vision and humanity, and aim to give birth to a system of national values in art and culture.
To encourage studies and researches on distant, recent and contemporary Turkish art, to encourage scientists working in this field
and we are committed to supporting men of art.
THEATER:
The theater, as a school of the nation, will be assisted by the state. The
opening of state credits and reduction of tax rates will play an important role in the development of private theaters.
We will ensure these.
State theaters will be saved from the monotony they are in today, and the material and spiritual world of the artist will become organized.
We will prioritize the organization of state theaters in the main provinces of Anatolia.
We will reorganize the Ankara State Conservatory in the light of science and organize conservatory education at the level of western countries.
Our aim is to establish traveling theaters under the management of state theaters.
We will create conditions to organize the state theater, opera and ballet under separate general directorates.
CINEMA :
The CKMP sees the development of cinema as an educational and instructive medium as beneficial.
The production of vocational, technical and cultural films to be used in schools at all levels and in public education will be provided by the state education industry.
The film industry and art will be assisted by the state to the extent of its real artistic level and the benefit it brings to our nation.
The artistic value of the film industry and its usefulness for our national life will be taken into consideration,
immoral
and behaviors aimed at preparing a favorable ground for communism will be carefully scrutinized.
FOLKLOR
We will establish a state-run institute for folklore research and practice.
NATIONAL DEFENSE AND ARMED FORCES :
We will organize national defense throughout the country and the nation.
The armed forces will be developed by preserving the spirit and quality of being a great public school.
We will prepare for the command and officer corps the material and moral conditions necessary for the successful performance of their highly responsible duties.
We will keep the officers and command staff informed and in touch with all the developments in modern thought and technology.
We will develop military science and education institutions according to the most advanced goals and levels.
We will ensure that the army has adequate training and maneuver areas and modern barracks facilities.
We will carefully address the issue of housing for army personnel.
We will regulate the living and service conditions of conscripts and provide adequate assistance to needy military families.
FOREIGN AFFAIRS
We will organize and develop our relations with our neighbors and Islamic nations within the principles outlined and complemented by history and geopolitics.
We will develop our foreign affairs organization into an idealistic staff.
We will prepare appropriate opportunities for their training and specialization according to the countries and regions they are assigned to, and we will
establish African, Islamic, Asian and Latin American cultural and research institutes affiliated to universities to study the cultural, economic and political issues of the relevant regions and nations.
All ties regulating Turkey's foreign relations will be re-examined and reorganized taking into account Turkey's present national interests.
COOPERATIVISM :
The CKMP will take all measures to organize agriculturalists and develop cooperatives.
In addition to the development of cooperatives, the state will establish an agricultural insurance institution.
FORESTRY AND OUR FOREST POLICY :
CKMP will solve the forestry issue as soon as possible according to the principles in the program.
ANIMAL HUSBANDRY, AQUACULTURE AND FISHERIES :
The CKMP, as stated in the principles of its program, will address this issue with attention and importance.
The breeding of animal breeds, the protection of pastures, and the development of livestock and livestock breeding will be activities that require the encouragement, assistance and initiative of the state.
Beekeeping will receive state aid.
The organization and equipping of fisheries producers and fishermen, their
training through the establishment of fisheries vocational high schools and institutes, and the
valuation of their products and efforts at their rightful value require state aid and protection.
The CKMP will take this into consideration.
THE SITUATION OF IMMIGRANTS AND OUR CASE FOR INTERNAL RESETTLEMENT :
The CKMP will pursue a settlement service and policy that will resolve all the issues of our brothers and sisters who have migrated to our homeland.
The rights of migrants will be effectively protected within the framework of international law, and they will be provided with homes, houses and jobs.
ARTISANS AND CRAFTSMEN:
CKMP considers it a duty to protect and develop handicrafts.
Small artisans and craftsmen will be helped to organize.
We will build industrial estates for small tradesmen in cities.
We will ensure that small tradesmen and artisans have access to adequate credit facilities and benefit from social insurance.
OUR BANKS
The services of our banks will be organized in accordance with the aims and objectives of the national development plan.
Banks will be ensured to provide large loans to the professions they are related to.
OUR VIEWS ON AGRICULTURAL, COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL ISSUES FOR THE DEVELOPMENT OF TURKEY AND ON THE ORGANIZATION OF MONEY, TAXES, PLANS AND LABOR
MAIN PRINCIPLES :
The solution to many of the problems we face today in Turkey depends on the sound execution of our economic affairs.
For this purpose, it is essential to follow a realistic policy in studies covering almost the whole of our economy.
In our view, a realistic policy in the economy is to direct economic activities towards increasing the national income, raising the income of citizens and thus the level of living by ensuring the development of the country as soon as possible.
To this end, the full resources of the economy should be directed towards the rapid and maximum utilization of existing resources.
The trade, agricultural and industrial sectors should be organized to encourage the mobilization of our existing resources.
Measures should be taken in accordance with the requirements of a trade, agricultural and industrial policy aimed at the total mobilization of resources.
The point is that Turkey has vast resources and especially vast opportunities in terms of manpower. There
are many areas in Turkey where manpower can be utilized to a large extent.
Where this is not available, the necessary workspaces should be created quickly.
In proportion to the utilization of our manpower, there will be a great economic vitality in every sector of the country and in this way, the economic wheel, which has been turning slowly until today, will be accelerated.
If "full employment" is achieved as widely as possible, production will increase and national income will rise,
thus stimulating consumption in agriculture
and the maximum possible levels of industrial production will be reached.
The utilization of our resources will lead to a higher rate of development than the 7% envisaged in the plan.
accurate, far-sighted agriculture,
trade and
We are convinced that industrial policy will play an important role in utilizing Turkey's resources.
- In particular, we consider it essential to develop small industries by providing them with modern looms and workshops.
a. In order to organize this, medium-term investment and operating loans are necessary for small industrialists, 90% of whose raw materials can be supplied domestically.
Concentrating the placement activities of the People's Bank solely on this issue will partially prevent the imbalance between imports and exports by stopping the import of small machinery, agricultural tools and other tools and equipment, which can be manufactured domestically even under today's conditions.
b. We believe that the energy of housewives, who are frozen in a state of dependence, will increase our social development power by supporting home and handicrafts, providing credit, organizing their sales and thus making them productive in the development of the country.
IMPORT
A - Many drawbacks of the import quota system, which has been in place since 1958, have begun to emerge.
As a natural consequence of the quota system, imports, the framework of which has been narrowed, should be brought to a quality that can respond to the real needs of the economy.
It would be beneficial to gradually move away from this system to an import system that can adequately meet the real necessities required for the mobilization of our resources under competitive conditions.
Such a policy of imports, both in the agricultural sector,
It will prevent occasional bottlenecks in both industry and industry, increase the productivity of these sectors and allow for new developments.
The main principle to be followed in both foreign and domestic trade should be to meet the needs of the national economy for goods and materials at satisfactory levels with good quality and reasonable prices.
The ideal form of this policy is the liberation method.
It is necessary to allow full competition in imports and consequently to give everyone the opportunity to import the best quality goods at the most favorable prices.
Opportunities for liberalization of exchanges should be sought as conditions permit.
Speculative movements in trade are difficult and even impossible to prevent through legislation.
Speculation can only be fought with economic measures.
In this respect, we recognize the necessity for the state to implement the necessary economic measures in a timely and complete manner in order to prevent such movements and to ensure that large masses of people can meet their needs under the most favorable conditions.
In fact, it should be the duty of the state to prevent the emergence of an environment that would expose the commercial sector, which is notorious for its speculative movements, to the unwarranted hostility of large masses of consumers.
In this context, the supply of goods in the import sector should be ensured in a regular, uninterrupted manner,
The ability of the consumer to obtain imported goods from a wide range of markets at the most favorable prices and conditions;
Avoiding large differences in current prices between various regions of the country should be the main objectives of trade policy.
- Stable flow of goods in the import sector is only possible with the implementation of a properly functioning import system.
The goal should be the implementation of a system that envisages the orderly import of various goods and equipment that will help mobilize the country's resources.
EXPORT
- In the production sector, we believe that as much as it is necessary for the government to prevent the emergence of situations that will put the producers and exporters in confrontation, it is also necessary to avoid to the maximum extent measures that will lead to abnormal price increases in export goods that are not in accordance with the conjuncture and that will hinder the easy export of domestic goods. - Considering the
serious effects of transportation policy on trade and export policy, it is obvious that the transportation difficulties that prevent the emergence of a harmonized price level within the country must be eliminated.
- Especially in exports, a reduced price policy of state transportation vehicles will provide the biggest factor in reducing the cost.
Otherwise, it will not be possible for our production, which does not have collectivism and consequently has high costs, to compete in the world market.
- We are against inflation, which causes serious damage to the economic structure and creates irreparable wounds in the social order.
Considering that the artificial stimulation of purchasing power in ways other than the real needs of the economy has very negative consequences in all sectors of the economy and causes great constraints on the means of the low-income people in particular, we believe that the utmost care should be taken in this regard.
All kinds of controls and ties that prevent the development of exports should be eliminated rapidly.
The utmost care must be taken to ensure that all export goods derived from the mobilization of Turkish resources by Turkish labor and Turkish capital are of a price and quality that can compete with foreign goods in foreign markets.
The emergence of factors that would create price disparity between foreign markets and domestic markets should be seriously prevented; the
exchange rate should be kept in line with reality in order to ensure that our goods find value in accordance with the world conjuncture, and
utmost care should be taken to preserve the value of the currency through import and export price premium constructions.
INDUSTRIAL INVESTMENTS AND ORGANIZATION :
- Measures should be taken to ensure that the existing industry operates at full capacity.
All kinds of raw materials, current and investment materials and spare parts used in industry must be provided in a satisfactory level.
Trade and industrial policies should be harmonized in this regard.
New investments in industry
and to organize these investments in such a way that they can exploit Turkish resources,
providing new opportunities for the workforce
and increases in national income.
It is appropriate to apply a prioritarian system in various industrial sectors in terms of their suitability to rapidly increase the national income of Turkey, and to target investment plans accordingly and to direct the implementation of the plan in this direction.
- We consider it essential to provide credit institutions that will provide long-term investment loans and medium-term operating loans in accordance with the nature and profitability of the production of private enterprise investments in industry.
In particular, we consider it necessary that the 1-2 year medium-term debt securities of small industrialists should be reis kontabl.
In this context, we are convinced that it is essential that the principles of the credit institutions, in accordance with the purpose and objective of their establishment, are free from political considerations and that their placements are directed to targets in accordance with the 5-year investment plan.
It is essential that these credit institutions, which are under the supervision and guarantee of the state, act jointly in the realization and development of the plan.
CREDIT IN AGRICULTURE:
- In agriculture, it is essential to ensure collective work by establishing production cooperatives parallel to agricultural credit cooperatives.
For this purpose, we consider it necessary for the Ziraat Bank to concentrate its placements only in favor of the farmer in accordance with the purpose and objective of its establishment.
The Agricultural Bank should act with the counter-guarantee of the cooperatives when extending credit to farmers.
The biggest factor limiting the production is the allocation of credit by evaluating the land, which has been in the ownership and possession of the peasant for hundreds of years, but which is not title deeded and has not been cadastralized, with the measurements of scarce land barem.
Ziraat Bank has allocated or frozen 70% of its total placement to commercial, industrial and mining loans, which are far from the purpose of its establishment.
We consider it essential to liquidate them immediately and extend them to their rightful owners, the peasants; the farmers, who account for 53% of the country's development and export products such as seeds, maintenance, fertilizers, fruit growing, beekeeping, poultry and animal husbandry, and who constitute 74% of the country's population.
- In this context, we believe that it is obligatory to establish fertilizer factories and agricultural equipment factories that increase the efficiency of production and to plan the production of these factories to the villagers through loans.
- Likewise, Sümerbank restricted its commercial placements, thus limiting the textile industry,
Etibank liquidates its commercial placements and focuses on mineral production
I believe that it is a real necessity to establish flotation factories and to allocate loans to miners in order to turn minerals into by-products.
Otherwise, an unstable credit evolution affects the entire production rate of the country.
JOINT MARKET :
Turkey's accession to the common market is of particular importance for our industry.
In order to be able to join the common market as a full member, our industry must be put on a fast track in the preparation and adaptation phases envisaged in the Association Agreement.
Otherwise, all the objectives envisaged for Turkey in becoming an associate member of the common market would be lost.
We welcome Turkey's full membership of the common market as a political and economic guarantee for the future.
We believe that Turkey's economic development and its adaptation to the political, social and economic order of the western world will only be possible with Turkey's full partnership status within the community.
We believe that membership of the single market will be of great benefit for Turkey to become a strong society in all respects.
In order to ensure Turkey's full adaptation to the common market, it is necessary to prepare our industry for it in advance.
and recognizing the need to prepare all sectors of the Turkish economy for adaptation, we feel the necessity to take the necessary measures in advance.
We consider it essential to make the necessary renovations in the developed branches of industry and to develop new branches of industry that can produce under conditions of competition with existing facilities in foreign markets and especially in the European Economic Community.
We are obliged to value work and expertise in these organizations.
EMPLOYEE STATUS :
In this respect, we consider it necessary to make use of the labor of our workers who work in Europe and especially in Germany as a free source of energy by determining their labor force and branches and to determine the industry to be established according to this common characteristic.
In this way, qualified workers, foremen and technical staff who have specialized outside the country will be utilized.
In this way, specialized workers trained in a cost-effective manner will be cultivated in the country.
In this context, industrial investments will not only be evaluated according to daily necessities, but also by taking into account the common and previously established ones and by taking into account the specialized powers of the forme staff
, and in this way, a collective production socialism will spontaneously and profitably respond to the needs by ensuring the mobility of the previously frozen national resources.
Since the Plan does not envisage a permanent co-location between the state sector and the private sector, the investments of the state sector remain negative in cases where the investment of the private sector, which depends on the power of production, does not materialize.
In view of this situation, the state must take the initiative.
Through the rational exploitation of Turkey's resources, we see it possible to develop industries that can be competitive in the common market.
Primary importance should be given to achieving this objective in the Plan objectives.
TAX :
The tax system requires continuous formation.
It is not possible to claim that tomorrow's needs can be met with today's systems.
We believe that taxation is an effective mechanism for realizing social justice and we welcome any reform that is directed towards this goal.
Tax policy should be determined in such a way as to make it possible to mobilize Turkey's resources rapidly and necessary reforms should be made in this direction.
Balanced economic development in every region of Turkey
and social environments should be created.
To this end, we believe that tax policy will be an effective measure.
We agree that the positive application of the tax mechanism according to the productivity shares of sectors in the national product would be more in line with the measures of social justice.
Tax policy should not only be considered as a revenue issue, but should also take into account the balance between revenue and revenue.
In this respect, we consider it necessary to implement a measured and fair system of incentive, protection and exemption provisions by establishing a balance between the assets that various sectors can bring to the general conjuncture of the economy and the ease of utilizing economic opportunities to create these assets.
In this respect, state revenues are constantly increasing in line with the general economic conjuncture and the development of resources.
and it is necessary to accept its development as a natural course until the welfare level of the citizens reaches satisfactory levels.
Stabilization and even reduction of taxes, as is done in developed countries, will only be possible when the desired development environment is reached.
In general, improvements in the economic sector in Turkey will increase tax revenues.
To the extent that the labor force is utilized and satisfactory increases in national income can be realized through the full utilization of Turkey's resources, tax revenues will increase
and the implementation of a tax policy more approximate to social justice will become more possible.
Although we welcome the reforms in the field of taxation that have been undertaken in Turkey since 1960, we do not believe that these reforms are sufficient enough to fully meet the main view we have explained above in our society.
In Turkey, there are sectors that are not taxed according to real measures, as well as large sectors that are not taxed at all.
This situation must be quickly prevented and the system must be organized in a way that takes into account the balance between income, revenue and opportunities.
WE SEE MARKET STABILITY AS ESSENTIAL:
Apart from psychological and political reasons, the establishment and maintenance of stability in the domestic market is closely linked to the economic policy to be followed by governments.
This requires, first and foremost, stability in the economic policies of governments.
In our opinion, a healthy economic environment can only be achieved through economic measures and decisions that are assured to last for a long time.
Maintaining the value of money with sound measures; basing the credit policy on sound foundations;
keeping the money supply within the limits required by the economy; keeping the
means to ensure the uninterrupted and orderly functioning of production activities at hand at all times; keeping
the supply and demand mechanism functioning without fail; taking the
necessary measures in a timely manner by anticipating the bottlenecks and bottlenecks that may occur in the economic order;
are the necessary factors for the establishment of market stability.
Market instability in Turkey, apart from political reasons, has in many cases been caused by speculative movements.
Prevention of speculative movements has always been instrumental in the establishment of economic stability.
We believe that such attempts can only be prevented by drastic measures.
The disruptions that may occur in economic events can only be eliminated by economic measures.
For this reason, we take into account the destructive nature of temporary measures taken in the domestic market for purely political purposes and especially during election periods, which appear to be effective.
Such measures, which are not permanent, to a large extent undermine market stability and put consumers, producers and traders in unstable situations.
It is high time to put an end to this kind of artificial politics.
We see the timely informing of the consumer, the consumer and the merchant about the measures to be taken on various issues and creating the confidence and trust that the policies to be implemented will not be changed unless absolutely necessary as the most important conditions of stability.
OUR SUMMARY VIEWS ON THE PLAN :
The idea of a plan is very new in Turkey.
In this respect, we naturally welcome the setbacks that have occurred both in the determination and implementation of the objectives of the first 5-year plan and in the definition and determination of the objectives of the second 5-year plan.
In a developing country like Turkey, it is necessary to take into account the conditions and resources of the country rather than general economic views in the preparation of the plan.
In our opinion, these vital factors have not been properly evaluated in the preparation of the plan and for this reason, the development rate determined by the plan has remained below 7%, which is actually a low level.
While determining the plan targets and the rate of development, the agricultural structure of the country should have been taken into consideration as the most important fact.
Since this issue was not taken into consideration, the economic development envisaged in the years when the agricultural sector's output was low was not achieved.
In this case, the plan has set targets according to static situations.
This, in turn, has led to wrong conclusions.
In this respect, a more progressive method should be adopted both in the determination of the objectives of the plan and in the strategy, and a progressive way should be adopted in the implementation, which is in line with the realities of the country and which adapts rapidly to the conditions.
A truly high level of development in Turkey can be achieved by realizing, on the one hand, the basic investments that will have an impact on major sectors without delay.
For Turkey, a real development rate of 4% represents a very low rate of development, which may be considered satisfactory and even exaggerated for developed countries.
However, it would be appropriate for us to set a more ambitious and realistic target and to direct all resources towards achieving it.
In order to realize planned development, Turkey must break away from classical methods and make a great move to achieve this development rapidly.
The 5-year plan's goal of achieving a balance between sectors and a certain speed in line with this balance is the expression of a visionary view.
A method that may be considered appropriate for other countries is not necessarily appropriate for Turkey.
In our opinion, the view of realizing the speed of development in Turkey by providing balance among sectors should have been preceded by the view of making choices among sectors and achieving results rapidly by concentrating all resources and means on the preferred sector or sectors.
After achieving results in one sector, the next preferential sector should be addressed.
This is not being done.
Turkey is not a country that can afford the luxury of wasting its limited resources in the eagerness to balance between sectors.
There are major major issues in Turkey that need to be addressed rapidly and resolved in a short time.
The plan should address these main problems within a priotary economic view and aim to solve them with an intensive strategy.
Analyzing fundamental issues will have an immediate impact on the social and economic sphere.
It is a more accurate and effective method to consider the increase in national income not only from an economic point of view, but also from a socio-economic point of view.
National Education, some special infrastructural facilities,
simple measures in the agricultural field that can be realized quickly, are of a
nature that can have immediate effects on the national product.
The plan should be prepared in a way to give our economy a takeoff.
A plan devoid of this was the result of a lack of methodology and the fact that the issue was considered only from a technical point of view, without defining the strategy and objective of the plan in political terms.
The fact that the strategy of the Plan was not determined by the governments from a political point of view - the political point of view here refers to the real needs and realities of Turkey - and that it was suggested to the governments by technicians is a primary factor in the current setbacks.
The Plan should be the mirror of a policy that aims to bring Turkey to the goal of maximum development by utilizing its available means to the fullest extent.
The economic and fiscal policy to be followed in order to ensure this maximum development should be determined by the governments in advance and the plan should be entrusted to technicians to be prepared according to these principles.
Turkey must develop rapidly in the social and economic spheres.
This development must be of such a nature as to increase the share of national income for each citizen
, and in this way, a minimum satisfactory level of living must be ensured for every citizen.
This view rejects the idea of a top-down distribution of economic opportunities among individuals.
But at the same time, this view also aims to provide Turkish citizens with living conditions above a certain level.
As mentioned above, Turkey's resources must be mobilized to achieve this goal.
This movement will only be possible through the intellectual and willful work of politicians who have determined their doctrine in this way.
The disequilibria that destabilize the national economy must be prevented to the extent possible.
Three important locks of the economic sphere: Budget, monetary and tax policies must be harmonized to mobilize every resource of Turkey at full efficiency.
Efficiency should be maximized through the mobilization of sectors that can provide rapid increases in national income
and wider economic opportunities and means should be provided to sectors that can increase their share in the national product in short periods.
To this end, the State Planning Organization has very important tasks.
The method of planned development should be determined according to the main principle of full mobilization of all resources and the mechanism should be put into practice rapidly:
a. The existing social and economic imbalance between the various geographical regions of Turkey should be eliminated.
b. Theexisting imbalance between the agricultural sector and the industrial sector, to the detriment of the former, must be eliminated.
c. A budgetary policy in line with the objectives of the Plan must be pursued.
d. Major issues such as national education and the total utilization of manpower must be addressed rapidly.
e. Thenecessary efforts for the development of agriculture and increasing the productivity of the agricultural sector should be given priority
and special importance should be given to investments in the industrial sector that encourage and utilize agricultural increases.
f. Efforts should be made to provide the necessary financial means for the mobilization of our resources domestically and, if they are not sufficient, from abroad.
To this end, in particular, foreign loans should be avoided to the extent that their terms are incompatible with Turkey's ability to repay them.
g. The participation of foreign capital in the mobilization of Turkey's resources should not be resisted.
However, it is essential that foreign capital investments should not be of such a nature and under such conditions as to have negative effects on the balance of payments.
In particular, the negative consequences of investments dependent on the production of consumables should be taken into account.
h. Industrial investments should be directed to high-yielding sources that will yield results rapidly and
should be directed to sectors that will have a positive impact on trade and balance of payments in a short time.
i. Opportunities should be created to make Turkey's idle labor force productive rapidly and for this purpose activities should be concentrated on economic sectors whose objectives are also social.
j. Foreign trade should be organized with a view to the full utilization of the resources of the country, and imports should be of such quality that they can serve a competitive production in terms of quantity, quality and price.
In imports, freedom of origin should be considered as an important factor
and any kind of exclusivity, preference, narrowness and congestion should be strictly avoided.
k. In exports, importance should be attached to the sale of Turkish goods in the foreign market according to their real value, and for this purpose, the necessary facilities should be provided to follow and adapt to market conditions, especially in the export of our export materials.
l. Budget and tax policies should be designed to mobilize Turkey's resources.
m. The reforms in tax systems required by social justice should be implemented sincerely.
n. In matters of money and credit, we reject any policy that creates preferences between sectors and prevents the economic development of productive activities by subsidizing sterile economic activities.
The organization of the credit mechanism in such a way as to bring the desired vitality to every sector of the Turkish economy;
to provide credit facilities appropriate to the share of the agricultural sector in national income;
We consider it an indispensable condition for the rapid and complete exploitation of Turkey's resources.
THE DANGER OF COMMUNISM :
We will destroy the danger of communism once and for all.
We will eradicate communism in Turkey.
For this, it will take all economic, legal and cultural measures,
The democratic Turkish nation,
nationalist and
to develop and advance in a spiritualistic direction.
DEAR TURKISH NATION;
Our citizens who are neutral or belong to other parties: I call you NATIONALISTS,
FREEDOM,
CIVILIZATION,
prosperity
and under the banner of the cause of peace.
Let us all walk hand in hand towards a free and happy Turkey.
Trust us.
Forward to the age of the feza and the atom!
