* THE WORLD AND TURKEY IN THE TWENTIETH CENTURY
1. Dynamics of the New Age and the Nationalist Movement
The process of globalization, which has gained momentum since the 1990s and has affected the whole world, is associated with a series of social, cultural and political developments as well as economic indicators such as increased productivity and freer movement of goods and services thanks to communication opportunities and new production technologies.
The effects of the globalization process on the world and our country continue to be felt more dynamically with the impact of the September 11 incident in the USA and the developments that emerged afterwards.
Human rights,
democracy
The process of globalization, which is expected to lead to the global adoption and realization of universal values such as respect for law;
international terrorism as we go,
immigration,
ethnic conflicts,
financial insolvencies
and civil unrest,
double standards in violation of international law, the ever-increasing income inequality between rich and poor countries,
environmental disasters
and hunger have become synonymous with a new set of problems.
The vacuum left behind by nation-state structures adversely affected by economic and financial bankruptcies or ethnic conflicts has been filled by international terrorism and criminal organizations;
human rights violations have reached intolerable levels
; and the masses of refugees and migrants, numbering in the millions, have piled up at the gates of rich countries.
These developments show that the path to global peace and stability is more humanitarian, based on strong nation-states.
and a democratic world order.
The effects of the globalization process continue to be felt more dynamically with the September 11 incident and the developments that took place afterwards.
Globalization process; terrorism,
immigration,
ethnic conflicts,
Financial Insolvencies,
hunger,
problems such as injustice.
The path to global peace and stability lies in a humane world order based on strong national states.
The loss of power of national states does not necessarily lead to the empowerment and greater emancipation of individuals.
"Global economic empires" and international non-governmental organizations (NGOs), whose controllability and participatory features are highly questionable, have been accumulating the eroding power and authority of national states.
The globalization process, which has been characterized by significant achievements in terms of producing more efficiently and more, has unfortunately failed to achieve the same success in terms of "balanced enrichment" and "fair distribution".
For this reason, national states continue to occupy an important place in the future of humanity as the most important mechanisms that can implement policies based on social justice and be effective in the fair distribution of welfare.
One of the most important areas in which the globalization process has made its impact felt is the threat to national cultures and languages posed by the one-way process of culture and value transfer facilitated by technological possibilities and economic dominance.
While the organization of subcultural groups as independent political structures within the globalization process is secretly or openly supported on the grounds of their right to maintain their cultural existence, how even well-established and great nations can survive in the face of uniformizing global cultural waves remains a question that needs to be answered.
In fact, the national state acts as a protective umbrella, a breakwater, creating the most natural and favorable ground for the survival of local cultures.
Global economic empires and non-governmental organizations concentrate power and authority
Globalization, which is associated with producing more efficiently and producing more, fails to ensure a fair share
The one-way process of culture and value transfer, made extraordinarily easy by technological possibilities and economic dominance, is destroying national cultures and languages
The way to make the globalization process fair and humane is to ensure a sustainable competitive environment among countries,
the use of technological means to serve the common future of all humanity,
human rights practices should not be limited to individual rights.
environment,
to include social and economic rights;
Instead of sowing the seeds of hatred and animosity between cultures and civilizations, it is necessary to support cooperative efforts based on dialogue and mutual understanding.
In this context, the need for an advanced "ethic of responsibility" that rises on national, regional and global pillars in order to realize a democratic and humanitarian "New Era" is becoming more and more apparent.
A world in which national cultures are protected and the obstacles to their free development on their own terms are removed will set the stage for new breakthroughs that will enrich the civilizational experience of humanity.
Humanity, which faces new problems in the New Age, should not be condemned to monopolistic solutions that sometimes run the risk of bringing other problems with them.
The existence and vitality of national cultures and the environment of diversity they create constitute one of the greatest human insurances against the danger of humanity falling into such dilemmas.
A world in which national cultures are strengthened by the modern technological opportunities brought about by globalization and continue their vitality is among the common aspirations of humanity.
In order to realize a democratic and humanitarian New Age understanding, a developed "ethic of responsibility" based on national, regional and global pillars is needed.
A world in which national cultures continue their vitality by becoming stronger with the modern technological opportunities brought about by globalization is among the common aspirations of humanity.
Western countries, faced with the brutal face of terrorism with the events of September 11, must better understand Turkey's struggle against terrorism, which has cost Turkey almost the last twenty years.
Our country, which has been waging a successful fight against terrorism by protecting democratic institutions, has
been expressing for years on international platforms that terrorism and all forms of terrorism should be condemned.
While it is a welcome development that the international community has come to this point only after painful developments, contradictory attitudes, such as the European Union's refusal to include KADEK in the list of terrorist organizations, weaken the hopes that humanity will be rid of this scourge in the foreseeable future.
Thanks to its historical, cultural and political relations with both the eastern and western worlds, our country, which is located in a magnificent spot that hosts the meeting of civilizations, cultures and religions, has the potential to put at the service of humanity a rich accumulation that will enable the meeting of civilizations at a time when the clash of civilizations scenarios darken the horizons of humanity.
Considering the dynamics of the "New Age" in which we live and the special effects of these dynamics on our country, the Nationalist Movement Party is aware that the way to contribute to the universal is to have a strong national identity and self-confidence.
The importance and uniqueness of our Party's attitude, which considers it a requirement of nationalism and humanity to contribute to the globalization process to include more moral and human values by supporting constructive cooperation and dialogues in the political and social spheres in the world, and which accepts the existence, dialogue and cooperation of nations and cultures as one of the prerequisites of humanity and global harmony, emerges.
With the events of 11 September, Western countries, which have been confronted with the brutal face of terrorism, must better understand Turkey's fight against terrorism
Our country has the potential to put its rich accumulation at the service of humanity
Our Party considers it a requirement of nationalism and humanity that the globalization process should contribute to the inclusion of moral and human values more
2. Turkey at the Beginning of the Twenty-First Century and the 57th Government
In the 1980s and 1990s, when important developments were taking place in the world, Turkey had to fight against the separatist terrorist organization
and economic instability, which led to
a lack of development-oriented use of resources
and an inward-looking and ineffective foreign policy.
This situation reduced Turkey's power and ability to take initiative in the face of the geopolitical and geoeconomic balances that began to reshape with the fall of communism and the end of the "Cold War Era".
During the last decade, as in the field of foreign policy, domestic politics, too, has been painful and fluctuating, especially after the 1995 elections, when difficulties and conflicts reached their peak.
In this period, when politicians and, by extension, the institution of politics were corroded, the culture of corruption made itself felt not only in government instability but also in almost every aspect of the political world.
Vicious bickering, inconsistencies and political discourse characterized by stylistic pollution have taken our democratic life hostage.
In short, the 1990s represent a period of serious stagnation and faltering for our country.
Many regulations that should have been made during this period were not, and decisions that should have been taken were either postponed or taken incorrectly.
The fact that our Party shared the responsibility of power after the elections of April 18, 1999 coincides with such a period of political and economic uncertainty and despair.
In making this choice, the Nationalist Movement Party did not succumb to the momentary attraction of any simple political calculations, but took into account the existence and future of our country and nation.
Our country, terrorism
and the problem of economic instability
and the reshaping balance in the world has diminished its power
In the last decade, domestic politics has been painful and volatile, and a culture of corruption has pervaded the political world
The 1990s were a period of stagnation for our country
Uncertainty and despair in our party
When the 57th Government took office, it is not possible to say that our country was in a good situation in terms of economic indicators.
During this period when the national economy was managed without a budget, inflation became chronic at around 70 percent, the
public sector borrowing requirement exceeded 15 percent of GNP due to increasing budget deficits,
domestic debt stock reached TL 22 quadrillion and foreign debt stock reached US$ 102 billion.
The convertibility of debts came into question and the real interest rate on domestic borrowing rose to 30 percent.
The foreign trade deficit widened and investors, unable to foresee the future, turned to portfolio investments instead of the real sector.
As a result of these developments, investment and production declined and unemployment increased.
On the other hand, the political outlook during this period was as complex and troubled as the economic outlook.
A political structure in which the morality of responsibility is ignored and personal rivalries take precedence over the interests of the country has constantly produced unsolvable problems.
The steps taken during the 57th Government period and the importance of our Party's constructive attitude will undoubtedly be better understood when the magnitude of the problems that have been delayed and postponed during the last decade is remembered, and when the negative effects of the economic crisis on our citizens disappear.
With the contribution of the constructive and responsible governance approach that the MHP has brought to Turkish democracy with its principled and level-headed political approach, the 57th Government has made great strides through reconciliation, in contrast to the vicious bickering of the past.
The government's fast working and decision-making process was reflected in the work of the Turkish Parliament, which enabled reforms to be enacted in a short period of time.
As a matter of fact, in the period from June 1999 to July 2002, there were a number of issues that could not even be brought to the agenda under previous governments, notably democratization,
public administration,
banking,
agriculture,
social security
customs,
Energy
and telecommunications, fundamental economic, social and political arrangements were made in many areas.
shared responsibility for power in the environment
Before the 57th Government, chronic hyperinflation,
increased budget deficit,
high debt stock and real interest rates,
rent-based economy
There are many problems in our country, including unemployment
A political structure in which the ethics of responsibility is ignored and personal conflicts take precedence over the interests of the country has constantly produced insolvency
MHP's constructive and responsible governance
Within the scope of the three-year macroeconomic program, which was put into practice in order to breathe life into the stagnant economy and to realize structural reforms, a significant decline in inflation was achieved.
Measures were taken to increase public revenues and discipline expenditures,
The rapid fall in interest rates has reduced borrowing costs,
and the economy entered a period of rapid growth.
However, the program's monetary and exchange rate policy faltered towards the end of 2000 due to the postponement of problems and the populist policies of the previous governments,
result of the weaknesses of the banking sector as well as the failure of the economic management to take the necessary measures in time, insecurity in domestic and foreign markets emerged, and
the markets, which became highly sensitive to non-economic factors, experienced the November 2000 and February 2001 crises, which affected the entire economy starting from the financial sector.
Within the framework of the stability program put into practice; first of all, it was aimed to break the psychology of boredom and frustration against the inflation that has been going on for years, and within this framework, it was aimed to establish the confidence of economic actors in themselves and their country, and then to break the economic vicious cycle and to ensure a stable growth process.
During the 57th Government period, two earthquake disasters and other natural disasters, which are among the biggest disasters of our time and whose social and economic costs are very high, caused the loss of many of our citizens, the injury of many others and the destruction of thousands of houses, workplaces and industrial facilities.
With the mobilization of all means as the state and the support of our nation, the earthquake was quickly recovered.
In order to meet the shelter needs of earthquake-stricken citizens, first temporary houses and then permanent houses were built.
The Law on Compulsory Earthquake Insurance and the Law on Building Inspection and the related regulation were enacted to ensure the safety of life and property in buildings.
In SSK, BağKur and Emekli Sandığı, basic issues such as retirement age, premium payment period and pension calculation principles have been regulated.
The Private Pension Savings and Investment System Law was enacted.
In expropriation procedures, it was stipulated that there should be sufficient funds to ensure that citizens are not victimized.
A new program has been put in place to exit the crisis environment
Two major earthquakes with very high socio-economic costs were experienced and the wounds were quickly healed
Temporary and permanent housing for earthquake victims
Earthquake insurance and building inspection system
Social security reform
Individualpension
Expropriation Transactions
Radical reforms were made in customs legislation.
Most of the hospital constructions that could not be completed for years have been completed and put into service.
Shift working system was introduced in large hospitals.
The practice of providing private health care services in hospitals outside working hours was introduced.
The Reform Program to Improve the Investment Climate in Turkey has been implemented.
The Law on Technology Development Zones and the Law on Industrial Zones have facilitated domestic and foreign investors.
Within the scope of the redefinition of agricultural policies, the direct income support system was introduced, enabling small farmers to benefit more from state support.
The Law was enacted to ensure that agricultural sales cooperatives and unions are autonomous and financially independent in an efficient and sustainable manner.
In order to compensate for the loss of income of those who become unemployed while working, "Unemployment Insurance" was established and the Law on Job Security was enacted.
A law on the sale of Treasury lands was enacted, allowing these lands to be designated as land for housing or industrial use free of charge.
Customs reform
HospitalConstructions
Shift system in hospitals
Improving the investment climate
Industrial zones
Direct income support to farmers
Autonomous structure for cooperatives and unions
Unemployment insurance and job security
Sale of Treasury lands
The Law on the Regulation of Public Finance and Debt Management was put into effect.
The Central Bank was made more autonomous to implement independent monetary policy.
The banking system was reorganized and the Banking Regulation and Supervision Agency was established in order to create the appropriate environment for banks to function in a healthy, efficient and globally competitive structure within market discipline and thus contribute to the long-term economic growth and stability of the country.
The joint board of directors established for state-owned banks was authorized to restructure and prepare them for privatization, and Emlak Bank was liquidated and transferred to Ziraat Bank.
The duty loss receivables of state-owned banks were liquidated and the principle of not assigning new duties that would create new losses was adopted.
In this framework, 97 decrees on duty losses were repealed.
Special consumption tax was introduced, 16 taxes, funds and fees were abolished, and second-hand purchases of motor vehicles were exempted from tax.
Arrangements have been made to eliminate different practices that lead to wage injustice in the public sector.
Debt management
Autonomous Central Bank
Bankingreform
Public bank reform
Liquidation of accumulated duty losses
Special consumption tax
Wage fairness
Closure of 69 funds
In order to ensure efficiency in public expenditures and increase transparency, all intra-budgetary funds (69 funds), excluding the Support and Price Stability Fund, were closed.
For the same purpose, the number of revolving funds is being reduced.
Organized crime and corruption were decisively tackled and numerous operations were carried out to uncover the illegal activities of many politicians, businessmen and bureaucrats who had gained undeserved prestige in the public opinion and had a say in the governance of the country, and these people were brought to justice.
The project on Increasing Transparency in Turkey and Ensuring Effective Management in the Public Sector was adopted The
recruitment and promotion of public officials was subject to objective rules.
Legal arrangements were made to allow civil servants and other public officials to unionize.
A new Public Procurement Law was enacted to ensure a more competitive, transparent and efficient procurement system in public institutions.
The process of prosecuting civil servants and other public officials has been accelerated.
Amnesty has been granted to students who have been disenrolled from preparatory, associate degree, undergraduate education programs of Higher Education Institutions and any class of higher education institutions for any reason whatsoever, or who have voluntarily left.
A law was enacted on the transition of vocational high school graduates to vocational higher education without examination.
Decisive fight against organized crime and corruption
Transparency and effective management
Preventing favoritism
OfficerSyndicate
Competitive and transparent tender system
Trial of civil servants
Right of attendance for previously deregistered students
Vocational high schools Modern
The Civil Code introduced comprehensive amendments in the field of family law, taking into account the equality of women and men.
Terrorist incidents, especially in the Eastern and South Eastern Anatolia regions, have been reduced to a great extent and an environment of peace and security has been established in the region.
By adopting the (F) type prison practice, prisons have been prevented from becoming training and management centers for terrorist organizations and terrorist acts have been prevented from being directed from prisons.
With the constitutional amendments, fundamental rights and freedoms such as the right to privacy and inviolability of private and family life, inviolability of residence, freedom of communication, freedom of movement and communication, freedom of expression, dissemination and publication of thought, right to information, right to receive and form opinions, right to form and be a member of associations, right to freedom of assembly, demonstration and march, right to a fair trial have been improved.
A constitutional and legal arrangement was made for civilian judges and prosecutors to replace military judges and prosecutors in the DGMs.
In addition, within the scope of democratization and human rights, severe penalties were introduced for those who try to force an admission of guilt through torture and cruel methods and for those who provide false documents to eliminate these issues, and it was made possible to establish presidencies and committees within the Prime Ministry to investigate human rights violations.
civilization
Peace and confidence in the country
Keeping prisons from becoming a hotbed of terrorism
Promotion of fundamental rights and freedoms
Civilian DGM
Fight against torture
In this period, developments were also achieved in the field of foreign policy and especially the relations between Turkey and the European Union, which have a 40-year history, reached an important stage.
Following the EU's adoption of the Accession Partnership Document, which sets out the principles for Turkey's membership, Turkey clearly declared its commitment to full membership to the EU and the international community with the adoption of the "National Program", which envisages undertaking the issues set out in this document.
The MHP has made significant contributions to the adoption of the "National Program" and to the realization of the legal and institutional arrangements envisaged in this program, and has been in an understanding that protects our national interests in making these arrangements.
However, the abolition of the death penalty, which is not among the short- and medium-term priorities and is largely in line with the expectations of separatist elements and imposed by the EU administration,
such as broadcasting and teaching in the mother tongue
As a requirement of our understanding of national responsibility, we did not support the latest harmonization package, which envisages regulations that threaten our national unity and integrity.
Our party, especially our Cyprus cause
and our relations with the EU,
It has maintained its basic perspective and stance in all international relations from the beginning and has determined its position in this framework beyond narrow political calculations, within the framework of a sensitivity required by our national interests.
3. Turkey's Honorable Future and Nationalist Movement
The Nationalist Movement Party has no concerns about Turkey's honorable future.
The strategic goal of our Party is to prepare all the necessary conditions to make our country a strong leader, a guarantor of peace and stability in the 21st century.
To this end, our Party is determined to take all necessary measures to meet political, social and economic expectations and needs and to finalize fundamental reform processes within its own dynamics.
Significant progress in relations with the European Union,
"Candidate country" status for our country
Short-term commitments in the National Program were fulfilled, but our Party did not support the issues imposed as preconditions
Our Party has preserved its ambition perspective and stance
Our party, our country
Elements that are indispensable for the Turkish Nation; our national culture,
our territorial integrity
and respect and commitment to our unitary state structure.
In this context, it is not only a political responsibility, but also a historical and national duty to approach all our international relations with the same understanding and sensitivity, especially the process of full membership to the European Union, which has taken a prominent place in the foreign policy agenda of our country in recent years.
For this reason, the respect shown by the countries of the European Union to our national sensitivities and their commitment to the partnership law will be one of the fundamental issues that will determine the future of our relations with these countries.
The Nationalist Movement Party is determined to build "Turkey's Honorable Future" in every field from social life to economy, from democratic structure to foreign policy.
It is with this determination and understanding that our Party enters the November 3 elections and aims for a single government.
The Nationalist Movement, in its sole power; 1 Democracy will be operated with all its institutions and rules;
where democratic political culture is entrenched,
fundamental rights and freedoms are guaranteed,
the establishment of a political and legal order in which the rule of law in the broadest sense is established and justice prevails in all areas, instead of legality,
is determined to take the necessary steps towards an honorable future
Our Party's sensitivity in international relations is based on our national culture,
and respect and commitment to our unitary state structure
Respect for our national sovereignty and partnership law
The goal is "power alone" to build the proud future of our country
The supremacy of law
2 Establishment of a stable and sustainable growth structure with an industrialization strategy that envisages directing investments, particularly public investments, to areas that require high technology and produce high value-added goods and services,
3 Based on competitive market economy and private enterprise,
rational use of resources,
adequate investment and production,
a fair distribution of income is established,
it is fair that we are among the top 10 economies in the world
and the establishment of a stable economic order,
4 Education,
the establishment of a social order worthy of human dignity and honor, in which basic needs such as health and social security are fully met,
5 Implementation of a foreign policy that directs political, social and economic policies on a global scale, rather than taking a stance according to determined policies, aiming to become a superpower in its region and a "Leader Country" in 2023,
6 Ensuring that our Turkish language, which has been shaped by the contributions of the thoughts and historical experiences of our ancestors for hundreds of generations, becomes a common language of culture and science that is used and understood throughout the Turkic World, based on the fact that it is one of the fundamental values that make us a nation, beyond being a symbol and a means of understanding,
7 Poverty by forming a harmonious triangle of political and economic stability together with social stability for the unity and vitality of our country,
unemployment
and launch a national mobilization to fight corruption,
8 In order to eliminate cultural and moral degeneration, implementation of policies nourished by national and spiritual values and strengthening our unity and integrity;
to create an education system in which knowledgeable and personalized generations will be raised,
9 To approach the efforts and responsibility required for the realization of the goal of political and economic integration with Europe and EU membership, which is of great importance in the light of the traditional political and economic orientations of our country, with a national and realistic perspective that transcends day-to-day political considerations, and to act decisively in fulfilling the requirements of this goal in the future as it has been until today,
10To enrich the economic, social, political and cultural cooperation with the countries of the Balkans, Caucasus, Central Asian Turkic Republics and the Middle East, with which our country has historical and cultural ties, by maximizing its relations with these countries, whose strategic importance is increasing day by day at the point where Europe and Asia meet,
11In order to provide services to our nation in universal norms, based on the understanding that "The State exists for the Nation", based on the service to the citizen and the trust of the citizen, e-Dev- let dominates, working effectively and efficiently,
the establishment of a "Smart State" with transparent institutions and rules
based social order
Establishing stable and sustainable growth
Market economy and
economic order based on fair income distribution
Social order worthy of human dignity
First a regional power, in 2023. "Leading Country"
Making our Turkish a common language in the Turkic world
Poverty and
national mobilization to fight corruption
Elimination of cultural and moral degeneration
Determination and national perspective in the realization of the EU goal
Relations and cooperation at the highest level with the countries of the region and Turkic States
Establishment of a "Smart State" based on service to citizens
We are confident that our goals will be realized
We firmly believe that these goals will be realized with our principled and clean political understanding, our trained staff, the vast common sense of the Great Turkish Nation and the help of Allah Almighty.
II OUR MAIN VIEWS AND OBJECTIVES
Our nationalism, inspired and encouraged by our deep attachment to and love for Turkey and the Turkish Nation, considers it a fundamental goal to give meaning to its existence and guarantee its future, and considers every effort necessary for this purpose.
Our Party considers the principle of "live and let live" as the spiritual basis of our understanding of nationalism and attaches vital importance to the institutionalization of this principle by continuously developing it in a line extending from tradition to the future.
The MHP interprets this principle to cover the entire human family and advocates a humanitarian dimension to the globalization process.
The Nationalist Movement Party envisages an understanding of morality that aims to preserve the high character of the Turkish Nation and pass it on to the future, and to establish love, tolerance and justice in human relations.
It advocates the necessity of a moral restructuring in which moral principles and standards will be put into practice, which will prevent the tendency of corruption spreading in every field in order to make this understanding dominant in every segment of society with all its institutions and rules.
In order to realize social transformation, the Nationalist Movement Party is committed to an "economic consensus" among all segments on the sacrifices to be made in solving economic problems,
"social consensus" that local and regional differences are the richness of Turkish culture,
"political reconciliation", which envisages that political parties should be able to act for the benefit of the nation without discriminating between the government and the opposition and that democratic culture should be taken as a basis,
It adopts the view of ensuring "social self-confidence and unity of purpose" in order for our country to have a say in the world economy and politics.
Nationalism
Total morality
Socialization
The Nationalist Movement Party supports democracy as the regime in which the nation is best represented in state administration;
the rule of law,
It sees it as a system that guarantees human rights and freedoms in the broadest sense and believes in the vital importance of its institutionalization.
Our Party considers the rule of law as recognizing, acknowledging and guaranteeing the supreme value of human beings, rather than a legality that ensures order within the democratic system.
Based on the fact that no person or institution can be above the law, it sees the law as the guarantee of the fundamental qualities of the republic.
The Nationalist Movement Party believes that every human being has fundamental rights and freedoms arising from his/her status as a human being, which are personal, inviolable, inalienable and indispensable;
believes in the sanctity of these rights and in the authority and freedom to exercise them on an equal basis with other human beings, and in the inalienability and indefeasibility of protecting, guaranteeing and operationalizing them from all forms of abuse.
With a belief and consciousness that considers the regional and traditional differences in our country as the richness of our national life, and with a tolerant attitude towards all social colors, as has been the case throughout history,
Justice
and freedom
considers mobilization to common goals in mutual understanding and cooperation as a guarantee of our national unity and integrity.
The culture of solidarity or Turkish socialism aims to achieve an equitable distribution of income between the different social strata of society,
to keep society's national sensitivities alive,
aims to glorify good qualities such as renunciation and sacrifice against selfishness and indifference
and to contribute to the consolidation of social peace by developing a culture of social solidarity.
The Nationalist Movement Party considers secularism, which has value and meaning to the extent that it ensures that citizens can live together in brotherhood without ignoring their beliefs, to be of national unity and integrity along with modernization.
and as a guarantee of freedom of religion and conscience.
Embedding a performance-based management culture for quality and results in government,
It is inevitable to realize a change in mentality that adopts a transparent, participatory, accountable, protective and coordinating approach based on public trust and continuous efficiency, and administrative methods that are geared towards these.
The Nationalist Movement Party advocates a stable, competitive and equitable market economic policy in which private enterprise is the basis, not state enterprise.
In addition, in order for Turkish entrepreneurs to have a say in the world economy, it is of strategic importance for Turkish companies and brands to gain competitiveness at the global level.
Democracy
Supremacy of law
Human rights and freedoms
National unity and integrity
Solidarity culture and social justice
Secularism
Open governance
Strong economy
The Nationalist Movement Party, which aims to rapidly build the infrastructure of the information society in our country, envisages the implementation of policies that will enable the production, use and export of information and technology and the development of social awareness in this direction.
It is based on ensuring that all members of the society have access to information quickly and at affordable prices and use it effectively in their economic and social activities.
Our Party advocates foreign policy on the basis of political equality, in line with the principle of reciprocity and the pursuit of national interests, with the understanding of an effective and respected state, and with the aim of enriching social, economic and political relations.
Our party is committed to making politics
and as a way of developing policies to ensure its well-being.
For this purpose, it envisages that state services should be provided in accordance with the expectations of citizens, and its institutions and rules should be shaped according to this understanding.
It believes in the socialization of quality through the development of system quality on the one hand and human quality on the other, with the participation and contribution of all segments of society.
Information society
Effective foreign policy
Total quality
III THE BASIC DYNAMICS OF THE PROBLEMS IN OUR COUNTRY AND OUR PERSPECTIVE
1. Basic Dynamics of the Problems
In the environment of instability experienced in recent years, basic policies that will shape the vision of our country in the 21st century could not be formulated, multifaceted strategies could not be developed at national, regional and global levels, and the understanding of turning corners that emerged at all levels negatively affected the will of our citizens, especially young people, to set goals and objectives in this direction.
An understanding that prioritizes individual or group interests and is far from the ethics of responsibility has prevailed in state organs, politics, civil society organizations and the media
, and rules have been shaped accordingly instead of national interests.
The inconsistent, misleading and manipulative attitudes and behaviors of the political institution, civil society organizations and the media, together with an understanding of governance in which citizens are not involved in decision-making mechanisms and cannot be held accountable, have led to a deep distrust of these institutions.
Failure to apply laws and administrative procedures to all citizens based on the principle of equality has undermined the state's ability to be fair.
The failure to establish a production and management approach based on citizen satisfaction in the delivery of public services and in the activities of civil society and the private sector has prevented the achievement of total quality in all areas, especially in system and human quality.
Aimlessness and aimlessness
Unprincipledness and irresponsibility
Insecurity
Injustice Poor
quality A
participatory, open, fair and accountable, people-oriented administration in which the governed are involved in the decision-making process has not been established, and public administration has become inadequate in terms of the effectiveness of its institutions and rules.
As a result of rent-seeking policies and practices, capital accumulation has been directed towards making easy and fast money instead of production-oriented investments.
this situation; production,
Employment
and negatively affected development.
The increasing distance from national and moral values has led to the
widespread spread of contamination such as irregularities, corruption and misconduct in the economic, political and social spheres, causing these concepts to become almost taken for granted and making a culture of corruption dominant in every field.
Management inefficiency
Non-productivity
Immorality and corruption
2. Our Party's Perspective
The Nationalist Movement Party will mobilize the socio-economic dynamics and potential riches of our country and ensure the peace and tranquility of the Turkish nation.
In this framework, it aims first to become an effective and respected "regional power" in its region and then a "leading country" in 2023;
It adopts national consciousness and moral norms as a principle in politics, economy and social life,
economic, social and political reconciliation and social peace;
With its principled, level-headed, consistent, honest, country-first perspective, it prioritizes public trust above all else;
Our Vision "Leading Country Turkey" in 2023
Social reconciliation and branch
It envisages making justice prevail in every field and establishing equality of opportunity and opportunity in the broadest sense;
Adopts socialization of quality based on citizen satisfaction in service delivery;
Its management is based on openness, participation and accountability;
It believes that the economy can be restored to a healthy structure by eliminating the public sector as an element of instability and by a new investment and production drive;
It is based on fighting corruption in the economic, social and political spheres and protecting moral norms.
My country first approach
Equality of opportunity and opportunity
Quality service
Open governance
Healthy structure in the economy
Fight against immorality
IV- ECONOMIC GOALS and POLICIES
A Medium Term Macroeconomic Objectives, Targets and Policies
1. Macroeconomic Framework
Unstable economic growth,
chronic high inflation,
deteriorating income distribution,
ever-increasing public deficits and
unsustainable public debt stock are the main problems facing the Turkish economy.
In order to overcome these chronic fundamental problems, the Nationalist Movement Party will implement a "four-year economic program".
This program is a new program consistent with the objectives and policies of the economic program implemented during the 57th Government, but strengthened with social support projects.
The main objectives of the medium-term economic program we will implement are to establish a sustainable growth environment in the economy
unemployment
and reduce poverty,
Bring inflation down to single digits permanently over a four-year period,
Reducing public deficits and public debt stock to a sustainable level.
The main reform areas of our program are; Developing a competitive market economy and strengthening its legal infrastructure,
Increasing the global efficiency of the economy.
Improving the investment climate,
strengthening the financial system and capital markets
and protecting small investors,
completing privatization in a sound and efficient manner,
revisiting the public financial management and financial control system.
A four-year economic program will be implemented
unemployment
and the fight against corruption,
single digit inflation,
sustainable public debt stock
Structural reforms and economic stability
The main instrument for creating a healthy and sustainable growth process in the economy and increasing total employment and total supply levels is to increase investment expenditures.
To this end, providing the necessary infrastructure to direct investments to areas that require high technology and produce high value-added goods and services,
policies and measures such as providing necessary tax, credit, incentive, etc. support to all investments, including research and development investments in this field, will be put into practice.
High inflation rates, on the one hand, make consumption expenditures more attractive and, on the other hand, lead to a shift of some savings away from the financial system and into alternative areas such as gold and foreign exchange.
In this framework, measures to increase domestic savings and deepen the financial sector will be emphasized.
Encouraging private investment is only possible by ensuring macroeconomic stability in the economy
and creating a structure in which economic agents can make sound investment decisions in the medium and long term.
In this context, real interest rates should be brought down,
the expectations for the future became clearer as a result of the establishment of an environment of confidence and stability in the economy
and solving the problems of the financial sector is of great importance.
In order for the economy to achieve a healthy and sustainable structure in the medium to long term, it is necessary to create an economic structure determined not only by domestic demand but also by external demand.
In this framework, policies other than the high exchange rate advantage that will drive the increase in exports will be prioritized.
The Ministry of Economy will be established to ensure coordinated work of institutions and organizations related to the economy and a more effective economic management.
continuity will be ensured
Healthy and sustainable growth
High value-added, technology-demanding investments will be encouraged
Domestic savings will be increased and the financial sector will be deepened
By ensuring confidence and stability in the economy,
2. Price Stability
In the last thirty years, the inflation rate has been persistently high and fluctuating, acquiring a chronic structure.
Until the second half of the 1990s, public deficits and the financing of these deficits, especially through domestic borrowing, constituted the most important source of inflation.
Other main causes of high inflation are exchange rate fluctuations leading to high depreciation of the Turkish lira and public sector price adjustments.
The Nationalist Movement Party aims to reduce inflation permanently and bring it down to 5 percent at the end of a four-year period.
In order to bring down inflation and ensure price stability, public deficits and public debt stock will be reduced and the weight of the public sector on financial markets will be eased.
In addition, stabilizing exchange rates and thus weakening the link between exchange rates and inflation,
maintaining fiscal discipline,
strengthening the banking system,
Completion of structural reforms to increase efficiency and productivity in the public sector,
Ensuring financial deepening,
breaking the habit of backward indexation in wage and price setting processes,
With the flexibility to be achieved in goods and factor markets, the problems that may arise in the relative price structure need to be overcome.
The weight of the public sector on financial markets will be eased by reducing the stock
Monetary and fiscal policies will support each other in the fight against inflation
Inflation will be brought down permanently
High growth and
low inflation will be achieved together
Maintaining a realistic fiscal policy and implementing the programmed structural reforms will, on the one hand, reduce the cost of disinflation,
On the other hand, it will support the effectiveness of monetary policy by reducing the divergence between inflation expectations and targets.
In order to be successful in the fight against inflation, monetary and fiscal policies need to be harmonized.
Moreover, the swift implementation of the envisaged structural reforms is crucial for bringing inflation down permanently, reducing inflationary expectations and thus eliminating inflationary rigidity.
The policies to be pursued to bring down inflation and the implementation of structural reforms will ensure price stability permanently while creating
On the other hand, it will make it possible to create the necessary environment for stable growth.
The fact that the growth dynamic in the Turkish economy is based on domestic demand has both destabilized growth and contributed to
the inflationary process.
Achieving price stability in order to ensure a sustainable growth trend in a healthy non-inflationary environment
and structural reforms need to be finalized.
Thus, a process in which high growth and low inflation can be achieved together will be possible.
The high inflationary process is usually associated with the agricultural sector.
caused a loss in real terms in the income of wage and salary earners
and creates unfair gains for some groups, making the distribution of income unfair.
Therefore, achieving price stability by bringing inflation down permanently will support a more equitable distribution of income.
The distorting effect of inflation on fair income distribution will be eliminated
3. Fiscal Policy
i. General Government Budget
The main objective of fiscal policy is to reduce public debt stock to a sustainable level by ensuring a permanent reduction in public deficits.
To this end, the revenues policy will be implemented in an efficient and forward-looking manner,
waste and inefficiency in expenditures will be prevented, and
tax revenues will be increased by spreading tax revenues across the tax base without increasing tax rates.
In order to provide a starting point for the establishment of an effective management and expenditure system in the public sector, public institutions will be ensured to prepare their budgets in a strategic planning approach.
Thanks to this new approach, which will strengthen the policy-making capacities of spending agencies and clearly identify the costs of the policies they will implement, public institutions will be able to determine their mission, vision, goals and objectives in a sound manner.
With the strategic planning approach, it will also be possible to monitor and evaluate the performance of organizations in delivering public services.
This will ensure more rational use of public resources and improve the quality of services provided to citizens.
Public debt sustainability will be ensured
Mission, vision, goals and objectives of public organizations
Within the scope of the reform efforts to ensure financial and administrative efficiency in Turkish public financial management, political and administrative powers and responsibilities will be clearly defined and clearly demarcated within the budget process,
The scope of the budget will be expanded to cover all budget-related activities,
Plan-program-budget relationship will be strengthened,
The duties and authorities of central institutions in budget preparation and implementation will be redefined,
The flexibility of spending agencies in resource utilization will be increased,
Financial risks will be accounted for in advance,
A financial reporting and accounting system will be established to make the system more transparent and accountable, as well as to increase administrative efficiency and strengthen the information flow system,
An effective internal and external control system will be established.
a strategic planning approach will be adopted in order for them to define their goals in a healthy way
Budget preparation, implementation, reporting and auditing process will be reorganized to ensure financial and administrative efficiency in public financial management
Excessive control over budget execution is insufficient to prevent waste and inefficiency.
The rigid internal financial control system, which emphasizes compliance with existing legislation, pushes organizations to seek off-budget financing, leading to further budgetary overruns.
Therefore, a new output-oriented audit system will be established rather than a pre-expenditure audit.
The outlined reforms in public financial management and auditing will ensure efficiency in public expenditures, prevent waste and irregularities, and produce more public services with fewer resources.
Thus, public deficits, which have reached unsustainable levels, will be brought down by reducing the pressure on public expenditures.
The economic program put forward by the Nationalist Movement Party is to reduce the ratio of public deficits to national income to below 3 percent after a period of four years.
Our Party aims to ensure that more of the resources generated in the economy are utilized by the private sector, and the fiscal policy it will implement aims to ensure that the Turkish economy remains on a stable growth path for a long period of time.
Real interest rates will be realized at a reasonable level in an environment of high and stable economic growth, while public deficits will be reduced.
In such an economic environment, where confidence is fully restored and uncertainties are removed, good debt management will bring down the public debt stock rapidly.
A new result-oriented audit system will be established in budget implementation
Waste and irregularities will be prevented by ensuring efficiency in public expenditures The
ratio of public deficits to national income will be reduced to below 3 percent by the end of four years
Public debt stock will be reduced rapidly
ii. Tax Policy
Despite the inefficiency of public expenditures, the lack of expenditure reform,
high tax rates
and the size of the informal economy lead to a debate on the legitimacy of taxation in the eyes of citizens.
In other words, there is a widespread belief in society that taxes are not being spent where they should be.
Our basic approach to taxation is to set our tax policy according to a tax strategy that is defined for the medium and long term.
In determining its tax strategy, the Nationalist Movement Party has taken into account the economic priorities of our country as well as international agreements and European Union legislation.
On the other hand, in the medium term, the limited capacity of the tax administration, the
predominantly bearer nature of economic activities in Turkey, the relatively
low level of monetization of the economy, the
necessity for Turkey to increase savings and investments, and the
high burdens on employment are other considerations.
The tax burden has reached a level that taxpayers and the economy can bear.
Regulations after this stage will not be aimed at increasing tax rates or imposing new taxes on the same transactions, but at ensuring efficiency and savings in public expenditures.
In tax regulations, in addition to the priorities related to public financing, the effects of tax on production and employment and its social aspect will be considered together.
Tax policy will be determined according to a tax strategy for the medium and long term
While determining the tax strategy, Turkey's economic priorities, international agreements and EU legislation will be taken into consideration
No increase in tax rates and no new taxes
The tax system is a dynamic
Tax laws will be completely revised to ensure simplicity and efficiency in implementation.
Tax-related provisions in other laws will be incorporated into tax laws.
The tax system will be restored to a dynamic structure that takes into account the economic, social and cultural structure of the country.
Tax expenditures such as exemptions and exceptions will be selective, taking into account mac ro objectives, economic and regional development policies.
Fiscal milad will be introduced following the two-year period required for the realization of the basic regulations on the tax system and the restructuring of the tax administration.
Our main objective is to establish a fair tax system where everyone pays taxes according to their financial ability.
It will be ensured that all expenditures documented by taxpayers related to their private or official affairs will be subject to expenditure.
Documents received in return for expenditures will facilitate the determination of the income of the taxpayers who issue these documents.
By minimizing the informal economy and reducing tax rates, the economy will be revitalized and it will be possible to broaden the tax base.
The first condition for preventing informality in the economy is the determination and resolve of the political will that governs the country.
By making the tax identification number widespread, great progress will be made in registering the economy.
will be prosecuted
Selectivity in exemptions and exceptions
Fiscal milestone to be postponed for two years
Tax according to financial power
All expenditures will be expensed
Tax base wow medicine
Fight against informality
Tax identification number
Withholding taxation will be abandoned and unitary taxation will be emphasized by taking into account the principles of individuality of income tax and taxation according to financial power.
Electronic commerce and new types of transactions brought about by globalization will be taxed in a way that does not hinder exchange, savings and capital movements.
In principle, all securities income (bonds, bills, deposits, repos, stocks, etc.) will be included in the annual declaration; however, in order to avoid unnecessary workload for both taxpayers and the tax administration, the minimum declaration limit will be raised and withholding tax will be the final taxation for securities income below this limit.
The general rate of value added tax will be gradually lowered and a single rate will be introduced in value added tax.
Rates of transaction taxes (BITT, stamp tax, fees, etc.) will be reduced to prevent them from encouraging the informal economy.
By gradually increasing the amount of special allowances over a three-year period, the tax burden on minimum wage earners will be zeroed out and a portion of all workers' income equal to the minimum wage will be excluded from tax.
A certain day of the month will be set as the deadline for the submission of all monthly declarations and the payment of the related taxes.
It will be ensured that tax declarations and payments can be made electronically.
Emphasis on unitary taxation
New types of transactions will be covered by the tax
Minimum threshold for securities income to be raised
VAT and transaction tax rates to be reduced
Minimum wage to be phased out gradually over three years
Tax transactions can be made electronically
Each tax amnesty creates expectations of a new amnesty.
This situation also leads to problems in the collection of accrued taxes.
Therefore, in parallel with the process of reducing tax rates to a realistic and fair level, measures will be taken to make tax amnesty, which penalizes taxpayers who pay their taxes on time and honestly, more difficult.
Sensitivity will be shown to social consensus in tax-related regulations.
The application and usage areas of the tax identification number will be expanded, and a number will be given to everyone together with other applications.
Bureaucratic procedures and obstacles that cause loss of time and jeopardization of public receivables will be removed.
An effective collection model will be developed and the reconciliation process will be made effective and simple.
In order to ensure tax awareness, taxpayers and citizens will be informed and tax courses will be taught in schools starting from basic education.
Tax consultation and complaint units will be established in centers where economic activities are intense.
The distinction between informal economic activities and activities aimed at obtaining black money will be clarified and a separate strategy will be determined in the fight against black money.
Central and provincial organizations of the revenue administration will be restructured and made functional.
Tax amnesty to be made harder
Taxes will ensure social reconciliation
An effective collection model will be developed
Tax awareness will be created
Tax complaints and ■ consultation
Fight against black money
New structure for revenue administration
Efficiency in tax audit will be ensured.
Tax audit units will be restructured in order to make audit plans, to conduct audits within the system and within the framework of determined criteria and to ensure the expected efficiency of audits.
Within the scope of restructuring, inadequacy of manpower and physical infrastructure as well as disorganization in the audit mechanism will be eliminated.
One of the most important instruments to strengthen the principle of decentralization in local governments is to increase the financial resources of local governments, particularly local taxes.
The taxation and enforcement powers of local governments in property tax and other local taxes will be increased.
iii. Debt Management Policy
As a result of the inability to solve the economic problems that have been accumulating for years, the Turkish economy has not been able to overcome the vicious circle of debt and interest, and the public debt stock has been rising continuously.
Real growth, real interest rates and budget balance are key to reducing the public debt stock.
It is not possible to be successful if only one of these is taken into account.
As a result of the economic program put forward by the Nationalist Movement Party, which will be implemented with great public support, the economy will show a high growth performance, and
as a result of the confidence to be given to domestic and foreign economic units, real borrowing costs will be realized at reasonable levels.
In such an economic environment, supported by strong fiscal policies, it will be possible to reduce public debt rapidly.
Efficiency in tax audit will be ensured
Local governments' taxation and enforcement authority will be enhanced
Real interest rates and budget balance will be taken into account together to overcome the debt-interest vicious circle
MHP program [confidence will be built in the domestic economy
In order to ensure effective debt management, it will be ensured that borrowing policies are carried out by a debt administration that will not be influenced by political authority and will be responsible for the consequences of its policies.
Debt management policy, like monetary and fiscal policy, will be considered as a separate policy used for stabilization purposes.
Efforts to reduce the cost of borrowing and extend the maturity structure will be supported by fiscal policies.
Computerized trading transactions will be made widespread in order to ensure fast, safe and inexpensive borrowing transactions and to simplify the transactions relatively.
Considering the exchange rate and interest rate risk in current borrowing policies, it is important for Turkey to develop alternative borrowing instruments.
Alternative borrowing methods and instruments will be used to extend the maturity of domestic debt, ensure its convertibility and reduce the debt burden.
For this purpose, as in some countries, new securities such as bonus or premium bonds, tiered bonds, etc. can be used, taking into account country conditions.
In addition, inflation and foreign currency indexed, convertible bonds with floating interest rates will be issued according to the conditions.
Long-term private bonds will be issued to the non-bank sector (insurance companies, private pension funds, savings funds, mutual funds, pension funds, etc.).
Debt management will be treated as a separate policy
Borrowing will become widespread in the electronic environment
Alternative borrowing methods and instruments will be developed
Long term Special long term bonds to be issued
In order to reduce the cost of borrowing, the auction system will be made competitive by reaching a wide range of investors.
This requires the existence of an effectively functioning and deep secondary market.
Therefore, in order to ensure high liquidity of debt securities, emphasis will be given to methods that allow the securities to be repaid before maturity, to be exchanged for other securities, and to be sold in parts.
Necessary measures will be taken to ensure that the maximum debt stock change amounts announced at the beginning of each fiscal year are not exceeded.
In this context, the possibility of off-budget expenditures will be eliminated and care will be taken not to exceed budget allocations.
In external borrowing, the foreign currency composition will be diversified in line with developments in international markets,
financial instruments will be utilized to reduce risk and cost, and different markets will be targeted.
iv. SEE and Privatization Policy
Since it is essential that the state be restored to its original functions, the state will eventually be removed from the SOE system through privatization or liquidation.
Privatizations through public offerings will contribute to the spread of capital
and the formation of competitive markets.
Market regulatory efforts to prevent the replacement of state monopolies by private sector monopolies will continue.
Auction system in borrowing will be made more competitive
No extra budget expenditures
Foreign currency composition of external debt to be diversified
SEEs to be privatized
Public offering method will be emphasized in privatization
The Privatization Administration, which is unable to direct privatization, will be restructured.
Profitable SOEs will be privatized without delay, keeping the market price as high as possible.
Necessary investments will be made in loss-making SEEs that can be rehabilitated, and
those that cannot be rehabilitated will be liquidated if they have been operating at a loss for at least five years.
The practice of abandoning state-owned enterprises that do not have a buyer to their employees at zero cost will be accelerated.
Part of the proceeds from the sale of KITs, which are the property of the whole society, will be used to finance social policies for citizens on low and fixed incomes.
A professional management approach will be adopted in SOEs, and a profit and tax-oriented SOE management approach will be adopted, moving away from a controlled management approach.
KITs will be given the autonomy necessary to make administrative decisions to keep pace with cyclical changes in the market.
In sectors such as railway services, where worldwide costs are high and profits can only be made with state support, state support will continue,
but privatization of the operation will be pursued instead of the state assuming the risks arising from the operation.
New structure for privatization
KITs that cannot be rehabilitated will be liquidated
KITs with no buyer to be transferred free of charge
The poor will receive a share of the sale proceeds
Professional management for SOEs
Autonomy to be granted to the dirt
Railway operations to be privatized
v. Public Investment Policy
The main objective in the realization of public investments, which have an important place in public expenditures, is to contribute to economic growth by ensuring efficiency in the planning and implementation of investments.
and, accordingly, to maximize its contribution to social welfare.
In doing so, it will be essential to direct public and private sector investments to rational and complementary investment areas.
In parallel with this policy, within the framework of the principle of effective and efficient use of the resources to be allocated to the public sector in the upcoming period by public institutions, justice in particular,
education,
Health,
The main principle will be to provide the urgent and priority services needed by the society as soon as possible by continuing to concentrate on economic and social infrastructure services that the country needs, including technology infrastructure.
On project basis, in addition to sectoral and regional priorities, priority will be given to projects that can be completed in a very short period of time and brought into the economy and projects that have achieved significant physical realization in their implementation, projects that need to be carried out and completed in connection with or simultaneously with other projects that have been started, and projects for the prevention of disasters and/or compensation of disaster damages.
Considering the limited public resources, it will be essential to form the investment program from the optimum number of projects with well-defined priorities, to allocate sufficient resources to priority projects at the appropriate time, to reduce costs by reducing the construction periods as much as possible, and to use the resources efficiently by obtaining the expected benefits of the project as planned at the beginning.
Public and private sectors will be directed to rational and complementary investment areas
Public resources will be allocated to economic and social infrastructure services necessary for the country according to established priorities
Prioritized public investment projects will be accelerated and added to the economy
The use of resourcefulness will be essential
Within the scope of public investment program rationalization activities, the average completion time of the project stock, which is currently 8.5 years, will be reduced to the level of world standards (approximately 5 years).
The inclusion of new projects in the investment program will be selective to the maximum extent, and resource allocation to projects for which standard quality feasibility studies have not been prepared and analyzed will be stopped.
Instead of borrowing without a specific strategy and implementing projects according to the source of financing provided, an understanding of providing external financing based on sectoral and project-based priorities will be established.
Within the framework of structural measures to be taken regarding the preparation, analysis, selection, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of public projects, the root causes of the existing problems in the project stock will be revealed and permanent measures will be taken to solve them.
Thus, an environment will be created to ensure that the efficient structure of the project stock does not deteriorate in the future.
Projects included in the investment program but whose feasibility studies are outdated will be identified, the studies of these projects will be updated for re-evaluation, and projects that are not evaluated positively as a result of the update will be removed from the program.
A rational public investment program will be established
Be selective in including new projects in the investment program
Efficient structure will be created in public project stock
Projects in the investment program will be updated
The main objective will be to manage the public project stock within the framework of the basic principles and principles adopted all over the world, to make legal arrangements that will constitute the basis for such management, and thus to establish an institutionalized and effective project management system that all public institutions will adopt and implement.
For this reason, a legal regulation that will ensure that public institutions act in accordance with a common principle by setting out the basic principles to be followed at each stage of "project cycle management", i.e. project identification, preparation, analysis, implementation, monitoring and evaluation, will bring a certain principle to the public project management process and prevent arbitrariness and disorganization in practice.
Departments of public institutions related to investment projects will be strengthened.
The person (project manager) and team directly responsible for the implementation of the project will be clearly identified, their authorities and responsibilities will be defined, and performance audits will be carried out in a targeted manner.
Master plans to be prepared for this purpose will be decisive in the planning and implementation of projects to be realized in important infrastructure sectors.
Projects that are not in line with the priorities in the master plans will not be brought forward.
In important projects (economic and social development projects) that concern large segments of the society, participation mechanisms will be established and developed to ensure public participation in project formation and decision-making processes.
Public project management process will be activated
Authorities and responsibilities of project managers will be clearly defined
Infrastructure projects will be realized in accordance with sectoral master plans
Public participation in project formation will be ensured
Information generation on possible investment areas needed by the public sector (inventory, opportunity studies, surveys, etc.) and sharing of this information will be supported.
The Public Investment Program will be divided into two different portfolios: large-scale development projects (between 500750 projects) that have significant physical targets, can directly contribute to economic and social development, are of interest to large masses of society, and have a large cost; and small-scale projects that can be evaluated locally and/or collectively.
4. Monetary, Exchange Rate and Financial System Policies
i. Monetary and Exchange Rate Policy
Within the framework of the medium-term program we will implement, by increasing tax revenues and reducing public deficits, the borrowing problem will be solved, the pressure on interest rates will be reduced
and an independent monetary policy will be easily implemented in an environment of falling real interest rates.
As a practice that will ensure confidence, with the reduction of inflation to single digits, zero will be removed from the Turkish currency and a strong new lira befitting our national dignity will be put into circulation, in order to facilitate the accounting system and taking into account its psychological impact.
The free exchange rate policy will continue to be implemented.
Exchange rates will be determined according to market conditions.
However, taking into account the shallowness of the market and our dependence on foreign exchange revenues, excessive fluctuations in exchange rates and speculative movements will be intervened in the short term.
Public investment needs will be determined
Public investment program will be handled in two different portfolios An
independent monetary policy will be implemented
When inflation drops to single digits, zero will be removed from the Turkish currency
Excessive fluctuations and speculation in exchange rates will be prevented
ii. Policies Regarding the Financial System
The deposit insurance system will be revised and a risk-based premium system that takes into account the risks of banks will be established, thus preventing banks from abusing the system and creating a competitive environment by enabling depositors to be more selective.
Public guarantee of deposits will be abolished and deposits will be insured by a private deposit insurance institution to be established with the participation of all banks.
The rehabilitation of the banks under the management of the Savings Deposit Insurance Fund will be completed as soon as possible and their sale will be realized in a transparent manner.
All banks will be effectively audited,
bank owners will be prevented from siphoning off bank resources,
resources previously transferred through corruption will be recovered wherever they are, and heavy penalties will be imposed on those who commit this crime.
It will be essential to strengthen banks without transferring them to the fund, and banks with ongoing problems will be liquidated.
Banks that cannot be sold will be liquidated as soon as possible before their losses reach excessive levels, and arrangements will be made to ensure the sale of banks included in the fund within one year in cases of necessity.
The restructuring process of Ziraat Bank and Halkbank will be completed and their transparent privatization will be ensured.
Priority will be given to professional organizations related to the sector in the sale of Halk Bank.
In this framework, the sale of Vakıfbank's Group B shares will be realized to ensure the withdrawal of the public sector from the banking sector.
A risk-based premium system will be established in banking, public guarantee on deposits will be abolished
Banks in the fund will be sold rapidly
Banks will be effectively audited and their siphoning will be prevented
Strengthening banks without transferring them to the fund will be essential
Public banks will be privatized The
Development Bank of Turkey will be restructured, run efficiently and its service area will be expanded to include agriculture and trades.
Companies will be encouraged to enter the stock exchange and
facilities will be introduced to encourage their institutionalization.
Those who manipulate and speculate in the stock market will be prevented.
Factors causing loss of confidence will be eliminated and relations with foreign exchanges will be increased.
A regulatory and supervisory board covering the banking, capital markets and other financial sectors will be established to ensure that all financial markets function in a healthier and more stable manner and contribute to balanced economic growth.
Mechanisms will be established to solve problems that may arise between the real sector and the banking sector, and measures will be taken to make the banking sector permanently lend.
5. Foreign Trade and Balance of Payments
Exporting high value-added, knowledge-intensive products;
to focus on markets with high purchasing power, young populations, dynamic and growing importance in world trade;
develop trade with neighboring countries;
strategies such as reaching the final consumer will be adopted.
Banking services for agriculture and artisans
Stock market entry will be encouraged
Speculation will be curbed
Single roof for financial sector regulatory and supervisory boards
Banking will support the real sector
New products and markets will be targeted in exports
In order to increase production capacity and productivity in the manufacturing industry, investments in technology and knowledge intensive sectors will be encouraged.
Policies will be adopted to develop and support fashion and brand-oriented textile and apparel industry, electrical and electronic machinery and devices industry, automotive main and sub-industry, machinery-making-lat industry, IT sector, iron-steel industry, food industry sectors.
Making the necessary efforts to create a "Made in Turkey and Turkish Brand Image" in foreign markets will contribute significantly to improving export performance in the long term.
In order to achieve these objectives, emphasis will be placed on promotional activities and global brand building.
Considering the importance of reducing input costs in terms of export performance, measures to reduce the cost of inputs, particularly energy, will be emphasized.
The export incentive system, particularly export commitment closure, will be restructured.
By enabling the tax administration to access the databases of other relevant public institutions, particularly the customs administration, tax refund requests will be finalized faster.
Due to the problems encountered in cash VAT refunds, the practice of refund by set-off will be expanded.
Within the scope of encouraging exports through credit, insurance and guarantee programs, Turk Eximbank will be strengthened by becoming more active in the financing of exports in the new period, bureaucratic procedures will be reduced and Eximbank credits will be used in a timely and expeditious manner.
Technology and knowledge intensive sectors
Industry for fashion and brand building will be developed. The
image of Turkish goods and brands will be created in foreign markets.
Input costs will be reduced.
Export incentive system will be reorganized, tax refund demands will be met rapidly.
through credit, insurance and guarantee programs.
Additional resources will be allocated to support overseas store chains to gain permanent market share in foreign markets
Promotion and participation in fairs will be increased;
fairs and business forums will be organized during international meetings hosted by Turkey, export products will be promoted especially during business council meetings in target countries and cooperation with Turkish businessmen residing abroad will be increased.
Emphasis will be given to rail and maritime transportation, which enables Turkey to export to distant markets.
Additional measures will be taken to make imports of consumption goods more difficult.
For this purpose, specialized customs will be operated more effectively,
imports of dumped and poor quality goods will be monitored more closely, and the
practices carried out within the framework of unfair competition, surveillance and standard control legislation will be continued meticulously.
The main consideration in policies aimed at increasing remittances to Turkey will be the stabilization of the economic structure.
In the process of the interconnection of markets and the increasing globalization of capital, the main attractive factor for capital is profitability.
In this respect, in addition to the sociocultural policies to be implemented for Turkish workers abroad, policies will be adopted to make the environment economically 'money-attractive'.
exports to be incentivized
Additional resources for overseas store chains
promotion and marketing mobilization will be launched in exports
Export to distant markets
Import of consumer goods to be made more difficult
A favorable economic environment will be created to increase remittances
The inflow and outflow of short-term capital will not be prevented, but measures will be taken to ensure a longer stay in the country.
Thus, short-term capital movements will no longer be a factor of economic instability.
6. Encouraging Foreign Direct Investment and Private Sector Investments
Increasing private sector investments is a very important issue for Turkey.
In Turkey, private investments are generally concentrated in the housing and transportation sectors.
However, encouraging private sector investments in tradable, goods-producing sectors is crucial to increase export potential and to ensure that we have an efficient and productive economy.
In this context, especially high-tech and/or productive investments will be encouraged.
While our country is rich in labor force, it is unable to fully exploit this potential as a result of inadequate channeling of resources to private investments.
The extent of the failure to utilize this potential is even more striking when one considers the high rates of unemployment, especially among the educated and skilled labor force.
The problem of brain drain, which plagues many developing countries, has become a serious threat to Turkey.
Full utilization of this power will only be possible by increasing private investment.
Private sector investments can only be financed if the public sector disciplines its consumption expenditures and withdraws from private sector savings.
Short-term capital
High-tech and productive investments will be encouraged
The need for public borrowing will be reduced and resources will be analyzed through private investment
Industrial zones, which simplify bureaucratic procedures and make it possible to resolve all transactions by applying to a single location, and which significantly eliminate problems such as site selection and infrastructure for foreign direct investments, will be used as an effective tool.
The Nationalist Movement Party recognizes the importance of foreign capital in terms of increasing the investment and employment potential of the country and the welfare of our citizens and supports it as one of its main policies.
To produce high value-added goods and services with international competitiveness,
realize the transfer of advanced technology,
provide employment growth,
to improve management capacity and workforce quality, while safeguarding our national interests;
the law
to the environment
and all kinds of facilities will be provided to foreign direct capital that respects human beings.
In order to attract foreign capital to Turkey, to bring together domestic and foreign investors, and to ensure effective promotion, a "Foreign Capital Board" will be established to represent the public and private sectors together.
Legislation to be established in order to make foreign direct capital operational will be freed from bureaucratic and political handicaps and put on an economic basis.
Adherence to international standards in investment and investor definitions in order to encourage foreign investments,
Moving from a permission and approval system to an information system for realization of investments,
applying the same rules to foreign investors as domestic investors,
free transfer of profits,
recourse to international arbitration institutions in disputes will be ensured.
Attracting foreign investment with industrial zones
The importance of foreign capital
All kinds of facilities will be provided to foreign direct capital
Foreign capital board to be established
Information on the request for permission and approval of foreign capital citizenship
Creating employment,
technology transfer within the country,
modern know-how, management skills, marketing
and creating export opportunities
and care will be taken to encourage long-term-minded capital formation.
7. Sectoral Targets and Policies
Within the framework of the law on the restructuring of debts owed to the financial sector, the resources envisaged to be provided by Ziraat and Halk banks should be made available rapidly, especially to SMEs, taking into account the improved financial situation of these banks.
In addition, the Economic and Social Council should be operationalized and committees should be established between the private sector and the economic administration to ensure a continuous dialogue with the real sector, to monitor developments more closely and to take decisions more quickly.
In order to boost domestic demand, the Resource Utilization Support Fund burden on consumer loans will be reduced from 10 percent to 5 percent for 2003.
Funds and similar deductions that increase the cost of inputs to be used by industry, especially electricity, will be abolished.
In the medium term, measures will be taken to give industry a competitive edge,
with growth and export potential,
Sectors such as food, textiles, clothing, leather goods, footwear, automotive, tourism and construction that have the capacity to create employment will be supported.
system will be switched to
Long-term capital will be encouraged
SMEs will be allocated sufficient resources
Continuous dialog between the private sector and the economic administration
Consumer loans to be increased
Cheap input to industry
Exports and employment
In the long term, the industry will be transformed from a labor- and raw material-intensive structure to a knowledge- and technology-intensive, high value-added structure;
Defense
and aerospace, machinery manufacturing, chemicals, electronics and software sectors will be supported.
In the electronics sector, there will be a transition to rapidly developing and high value-added telecommunications (new network technologies, satellite transit components) and Internet-based consumer devices (such as WEB TV).
To this end, support will be given to increasing the rate of intellectual property in the domestic contribution of the product and to research and development activities, trained manpower will be trained in this field and special zones will be allocated for companies operating in the sector.
Electronics and electrical machinery industries will be encouraged to develop new products through R&D support, strengthening university-industry cooperation and domestic equipment procurement policy.
Accelerating growth in the medium and long term
In addition to taking structural measures to increase employment, measures will also be taken to support the rapid realization of projects with incentive certificates for which investment decisions have been made by the private sector.
In this context, private sector investments that have received incentive certificates in recent years constitute the potential project package that will drive growth in the coming period.
In order to realize these projects, which will provide significant added value and employment opportunities to our economy, investment incentives of over 100 percent should be granted to selected large-scale projects,
Facilitating SSK premium payments
and projects will be closely monitored and accelerated by the public sector.
oriented sectors to be supported
Industry will be transformed into an information and technology intensive structure
Increasing the rate of intellectual property in the electronics sector
Development of new products will be encouraged
Investment discount of over 100 percent for large-scale investment projects I insurance premium
Projects related to gold, thorium and similar precious metals will be supported and necessary legislative arrangements will be made.
In order to increase the production and export of boron products, Etibank's existing investment projects will be completed, and new boron products with high added value will be developed by allocating resources for R&D.
Seydişehir aluminum plants will be modernized and will be made competitive.
The modernization and transformation of Iskenderun Iron and Steel facilities into flat product production will be supported.
In the leather sector, the transfer of hides processing facilities to newly established organized industrial zones will be encouraged.
Additional support will be given to the transition to high value-added products, fashion, brand creation and design in the textile-clothing sector.
Public opinion will be created to ensure that the nuclear energy program is put into effect as soon as possible and without interruption.
Hydroelectric energy production will be increased by utilizing the water potential, which is one of the clean energy resources, at maximum level.
ease of payment will be introduced
Aluminum and thoriumprojects
New boron products with high added value will be developed
large state-owned plants to be modernized
Leather sector
Support for fashion, brand and design
Public opinion on nuclear energy
Uidroel tric power generation to be increased
Research and development activities related to new and renewable energy resources, especially geothermal, solar and wind energy, will be encouraged and producers will be encouraged to make investments.
The proper billing and collection of the energy consumed in every region of the country will both prevent excessive consumption and contribute to the improvement of the financial structure.
TPAO's domestic and international oil and natural gas exploration and production activities will continue at an increasing pace.
A comprehensive, coherent and persuasive foreign policy will be pursued for the realization of international pipeline projects such as the Baku-Ceyhan crude oil pipeline, the Russian Black Sea-Turkey natural gas pipeline, and the Turkmenistan-Turkey-Europe natural gas pipeline.
It will be fast, safe, technologically innovative and competitive,
will drive industry,
will protect the national interest,
will support economic and social development, increase the welfare of citizens and ensure user satisfaction,
A widespread, fast, safe and cost-effective transportation system integrated with international transportation corridors will be established.
Taking into account the position of Turkey in international land transportation, infrastructure deficiencies in land transportation will be eliminated.
In addition to increasing the cost of road transportation in terms of service, increasing traffic load
and environmental pollution, freight and passenger transportation will be shifted to rail and maritime transportation.
New and renewable energy sources
Energy losses and leakages will be minimized
Oil and natural gas exploration and production
Realization of Clustararasi horu line projects
A widespread, fast, safe and low-cost transportation system will be established
hara transportation infrastructure will be completed
Railway and sea
The share of railways in freight and passenger transportation will be increased.
In this framework, while the standards of the existing railways will be rapidly upgraded and speed and quality will be improved, new railway lines will be constructed to connect industrial centers to ports and main lines.
The "Istanbul Tube Transit Project" and the "Kars Tbilisi Railway Project", which are of strategic importance in terms of integration with the East-West transportation corridor, will be implemented.
The State Railways Enterprise will be restructured to concentrate on infrastructure management and arrangements will be made to allow the private sector to operate the line operations.
Necessary measures will be taken to increase the capacity and efficiency of the maritime transportation fleet by reinforcing it with new vessels of the required age, type and tonnage.
Taking into account that maritime transportation has become a chain together with sub-transportation systems, the transportation system will be developed as a whole by eliminating inadequacies in port infrastructures, terminal facilities and main transportation artery connections.
In parallel with the developments in air transportation, it will be ensured that the authority related to civil aviation will be included in the Sectoral Regulation and Supervision Board, which will be established to fulfill its decision-making, implementation and supervision duties properly.
expanding transportation
Istanbul Tube Transit Project and Kars-Tbilisi Railway Project to be implemented
Possibility of railway line management by the private sector
Capacity and efficiency of the maritime transportation fleet will be increased
Civil aviation to be reorganized
Measures will be taken to ensure that air transportation can provide services in accordance with international standards,
Necessary support will be provided for the development of private airline companies, especially for tourism-oriented transportation.
Communication and communication have an important place in the globalizing world.
Communication has become even more important with developing computer technology and software.
In this framework, by completing the necessary infrastructure investments in data transfer, communication and communication, Turkey's external dependency in information and communication technology will be reduced and it will be ensured that Turkey will be among the countries producing and exporting this technology.
In our country, it is possible to carry out a wide range of tourism activities such as sea tourism, history and museum tourism, cave tourism, winter tourism, mountain tourism, river tourism, hunting tourism, health tourism, religious tourism, sports tourism, congress tourism.
In order to make good use of the potential provided by this diversity, promotion and marketing issues will be made more effective and a larger share of the world tourism revenues will be ensured.
By establishing "Free Health Zones", investment and employment opportunities will be provided and tourism revenues will be increased through health tourism.
For this purpose, public land and facilities, especially in tourism regions, will be allocated.
Direct foreign capital inflow and customer guarantee will also be ensured by making private health institutions abroad partners of the companies to be established in these regions.
Free health zones will also develop the pharmaceutical and chemical industries.
International standard for air transportation
Become a country that produces and exports information and communication technology
Effective promotion and ■ marketing will be done for tourism activities
Free Health Zones will be established and tourism revenues will be increased through health tourism
In addition to traditional markets, a long-term tourism policy will be implemented that includes opening up to new markets such as the Far East and the Middle East and creating a new image of Turkey.
Cooperation and coordination between the state, private sector and non-governmental organizations will be enhanced to formulate a sounder tourism policy.
Taking into account changing consumer preferences, tourism will be developed in regions that have not been adequately addressed to date.
The tourism policies to be implemented will be arranged in a way that will not negatively affect the artisans of the region.
With a comprehensive tourism planning and the related determination of tourism policy objectives and strategy, the four-season tourism potential of our country will be utilized, its revenues will be increased and made sustainable, and our dependence on external resources required for financing development will be reduced.
B SocioEconomic Objectives, Targets and Policies
1. Improving Income Distribution, Combating Unemployment and Poverty
By establishing a stable economic growth and a strong production economy; producing,
creating jobs
and our main objective is to create a social welfare order that ensures that every segment involved in this process receives a fair share of the value produced in proportion to its contribution.
A new image of Turkey will be created
Cooperation in tourism policies
New tourism areas
Policy appropriate for the regional fund
Four-season tourism will be developed and tourism revenues will be increased
The main objective is to improve the social welfare system
The basis of the fight against poverty will be the production economy.
For this purpose, small and medium-sized enterprises will be supported by creating a favorable investment climate in which private enterprise can make long-term investment decisions,
value added of foreign direct investment
and investments to create employment will be encouraged.
Public-private sector cooperation will be developed to eliminate regional development disparities and mobilize local production potential, and
the Small and Medium Industry Development Presidency will be ensured to provide effective service throughout the country.
The rent economy, which provides easy profits and does not provide employment, will be put an end to
and resources will be used in a way that encourages production.
The employment burden of the agricultural sector will be transferred to the industrial and services sectors in order to lift out of poverty those who are most affected by poverty: those with low levels of education, those engaged in agriculture and forestry, and those working as own account and casual workers.
A production economy that produces, creates added value and employment will be established, and economic and social policies will be implemented in harmony to support those on low and fixed incomes.
Available idle public land will be allocated to unemployed and poor citizens for agricultural production and employment purposes.
It will be ensured that veterans, families of martyrs, those who have been victims and disabled during the fight against terrorism, and the disabled are prioritized for job placement, contributing to production and reintegration into society.
Create a favorable investment climate for long-term investment
KOSGEB will be activated
Resources will be directed to production
Agriculture sector employment burden to be transferred to industry and services
Policies to support the poor will be implemented
Idle public lands to be allocated to the poor
Veterans, families of martyrs, invalids
The terrorism that has been going on in our country for 15 years has caused some of the people of the region, security forces and other public officials to lose their lives and others to suffer material and moral damages, and this situation has become a threat to social peace.
In order to "reinforce social solidarity and brotherhood", in addition to measures to eliminate regional development disparities, a certain portion of the Social Assistance and Solidarity Incentive Fund will be allocated to citizens who have suffered damages as a result of these incidents and will be used exclusively for this purpose.
To this end, the Fund's revenues will also be increased.
Social assistance and social service programs, which are currently carried out by different ministries and institutions for the needy, elderly, orphaned, powerless, disabled and citizens in need of special attention, will be restructured under a single roof as a modern and integrated system.
The new unit to be established will be associated with the Ministry of Labor and Social Security.
In-kind and cash aid will be provided to needy, weak and orphaned citizens, taking into account the poverty line.
Social protection will be provided to families by launching an "unemployment benefit" payment program for unemployed heads of households.
Basic needs
Education with
health and social services will be made accessible and available to the poor.
The burden of compulsory basic education expenditures on the family budget will be eased.
and jobs for the disabled
Financial support will be provided to citizens damaged by terrorism to reinforce social solidarity and brotherhood
Social assistance and services provided by different ministries and institutions will be gathered under a single roof
Assistance will be provided to the needy, weak and orphans
The share of education expenditures in the family budget
The tax base will be broadened, the tax burden of the poor will be eased, and transfer policies will be implemented to ensure that the poor and those at risk of impoverishment receive a larger share of national income.
Social assistance and social service programs to be implemented by local administrations, private sector and non-governmental organizations will be encouraged.
A social protection information system will be established and implementation will be monitored to ensure that those who will benefit from social assistance programs receive assistance and that no one is left hungry or in deficit.
2. Policies for Tradesmen and Craftsmen
Preventing monopolistic formations by protecting competition in the economy,
job creation,
redressing income inequalities,
bringing new entrepreneurs into the economy,
preservation of social peace,
SMEs will be supported in order to eliminate imbalances between regions.
SMEs will be ensured to play an active role in mobilizing local potential.
Our strategy of expanding industry in Anatolia and focusing on SMEs for this purpose will be maintained.
In small industrial sites, issues such as infrastructure, transportation, communication, health, education, storage, marketing will be organized with a new understanding, taking into account the environmental impact and hygienic conditions.
load will be reduced
Tax burden to be eased for the poor
Social assistance programs will be encouraged
A social protection information system will be established
SMEs to be supported
SMEs will play an active role in the industrialization of Anatolia
Small industrial sites will be reorganized
Guiding and encouraging measures will be taken to organize SMEs into unions, to develop their internal and external marketing functions and to provide state support to help them operate at high capacity.
The minimum investment limit for SMEs to benefit from investment incentives will be reduced to a reasonable level.
SMEs will be encouraged to come together to form "Domestic and Foreign Trade Companies".
By utilizing European Union resources, the banking system will be directed towards SME loans.
Project studies will be carried out for financing the production and exports of SMEs from Islamic Development Bank resources.
Credit guarantee fund facilities will be increased to ensure that SMEs can provide guarantees in credit utilization.
Considering the insufficiency of development in our border provinces, border trade will be developed in a controlled manner with a new regulation and its contribution to provincial economies will be ensured.
SMEs will be encouraged to produce goods and services for foreign markets as well as the domestic market by raising the general education and skill level of the workforce, supporting research and development activities, eliminating technology deficiency and providing consultancy services.
For this purpose, the establishment of standards in goods and services to be produced, improvement of quality and widespread use of information and communication technologies in access to the market will be ensured.
SMEs will be organized in unions
SME investment incentives to be increased
EU and Islamic Development Bank loans to SMEs
Guarantee for credit utilization
Border trade to be developed
SMEs will be encouraged to produce goods and services for foreign markets
Professional standards will be developed, artisans will be given specialized identity and a sense of belonging will be developed.
3. Policies for Agriculture
The agricultural sector will be transformed into a structure that is self-sufficient in agricultural production and able to compete in international markets by providing the Turkish society with sufficient, balanced and healthy nutrition.
Efforts to adapt the agricultural structure to modern changes and transformations in its physical, technological and social dimensions will be sustained.
In order to ensure that agricultural services meet the needs of the society in the most appropriate manner, a comprehensive "Agricultural Law" covering all aspects of the sector will be enacted.
By ensuring that the "Restructuring and Support Board in Agriculture" operates in accordance with the purpose of its establishment, multi-headedness, scattered authority and lack of coordination in agricultural public services will be eliminated.
The agricultural sector will be restored to a holistic structure with its production, processing and marketing dimensions.
The "Law on Producer Associations" will be prepared and put into effect as soon as possible, which will enable our farmers to gain a strong position at every stage from production to marketing by organizing on product and regional basis.
Some improvements will be made in the implementation of the direct income support system and additional measures will be taken.
In this context; Specialized identity for artisans
Competitive agricultural structure in line with modern changes and transformations
A comprehensive agricultural law will be enacted
Multi-headedness in agricultural public services will be eliminated A
law on Producer Unions will be enacted
Direct income support payments will also be used as a product planning tool, taking into account the supply and demand of products.
The premium system will continue for products with a supply deficit.
Direct income support payments will be made in September and March, when fall and summer planting is carried out, within a certain plan. no delay will be allowed.
The amount of direct income payment per decare for each year will be increased in line with inflation.
Regarding the infrastructure of direct income support implementation, the definition of farmer and the concepts of small, medium and large scale enterprises on product basis will be determined and farmer registration system and land registry system will be completed.
With the "contractual production model", on the one hand, farmers will be able to pay for their products at their real value, and on the other hand, industrialists, traders and exporters will be provided with a continuous, high quality, standard, appropriate quality and price raw material supply.
The objective of sustainable agricultural development in harmony with the environment will be taken into account at every stage of agricultural operations.
Agriculture will be transformed from inefficient family farming to farming that operates according to modern principles, and our farmers will be ensured to receive their rightful share of social welfare and modern living conditions.
Direct income support will be increased every year and paid in September and March without delay
Direct income support will be used as a crop planning tool
Farmer registration system to be completed
Contract production model will be put into practice
Environmental agriculture compliance
Transformation to modern business
The "Sectoral Regulation and Supervision Board" to be established will regulate and supervise the sustainability of the production of agricultural products and inputs used in production under market conditions.
In order to harmonize agricultural input prices with world prices, the level of information and technology utilization will be increased.
Input pricing mechanisms will be established to prevent the terms of trade from working against the sector.
In line with their service functions, efforts to open public agricultural enterprises to the projected cooperation of the private sector will be accelerated.
Supports within the scope of the alternative product project, which contributes to agricultural product planning, will be expanded.
"Agricultural Cities", rural attraction units where agriculture-industry integration is ensured, will be established to direct investment and technology to rural areas by establishing a basic agricultural structuring based on diversification of agricultural products, increasing yield and quality, on-site processing and valorization, on-site employment and value added and marketing as a brand.
Land use, soil and water conservation will be regulated legally, the misuse and fragmentation of agricultural lands and the pollution of soil and water resources will be prevented, and our pastures will be rehabilitated and put into the service of agriculture.
Regulating and supervising the agricultural sector
Input prices in line with world prices
Product input pricing
Public agricultural enterprises Private sector
Alternative crop project support
Agriculture-industry integration will be ensured with the "Agricultural Cities" project
Preventing the misuse of agricultural land
Agricultural database and multidimensional agricultural inventory will be completed and renewed every year.
KITs involved in the purchase of agricultural subsidies will be privatized and rational operation of Agricultural Sales Cooperatives Unions will be ensured in line with the principles of modern management.
Projects for the development and support of animal husbandry will be implemented in order to support fodder crops production, domestic certified breeding animals, artificial insemination and fattening and to apply incentive premium for milk.
Genetic engineering, biotechnology, irrigation and mechanization technologies will be effectively utilized.
Seeds, seedlings, saplings and breeding animal material that can be adapted to the country's conditions will be developed more widely and made available to farmers, and smuggling of animals, various agricultural products and food will be prevented.
The production of fodder crops, the most important input of livestock, will be encouraged, and the production of vegetable crude oil and oilseed crops will be supported.
In our country, efforts to bring "food safety and reliability" to modern norms, to ensure that consumers consume healthy products, to protect consumers and to raise consumer awareness will be emphasized sensitively.
Organic agricultural production activities will be made widespread throughout the country and producers will be made aware of the use of pesticides and chemicals.
Agriculturalinventory
Agricultural SOEs to be privatized
Livestock will be developed and supported
Biotechnology will be used
Smuggling of animals, agricultural products and food will be prevented
Support for fodder and oilseed crop production
Food safety will be ensured in modern norms
Organic agriculture will become widespread
Agricultural products and finished goods will be analyzed in "accredited laboratories" to protect consumer health.
"Commodity Futures Exchanges" will be expanded.
Extension organizations in which farmers will participate in management will be established and the private sector will be encouraged for agricultural extension and research activities.
Importance and priority will be given to infrastructure projects for the irrigation of areas that can be technically and economically opened for irrigation to the maximum extent.
Development of forest villagers and extension of protection services will be ensured.
By combining the forest cadastre with the general cadastre, it will be ensured that property disputes are resolved and the forest villagers will be saved from litigation with the state.
In order to support forestry, private forestry will be developed by allocating land free of charge to forest villagers and real and legal persons who request it, under certain conditions and for certain periods.
By realizing all the works initiated in all sub-sectors of agriculture and forestry and by realizing the issues mentioned above, it will be ensured that production in every field will be increased, products will be processed and valued and marketed both domestically and internationally, Turkey will be reshaped and the standard of living of our farmers will be raised.
Accredited agricultural laboratories
Futures exchanges
Agricultural extension and research will be encouraged
Forest villagers will be developed
Private forestry will be developed The
standard of living of our farmers will be raised
4. Reducing Interregional Development Differences
Although regional development plans have been prepared and implemented to a certain extent in our country, the real potential of our regions has not been identified and the existing potential has not been mobilized.
Therefore, the level of welfare has not been raised sufficiently,
Agriculture
The desired level of development in the industrial and industrial sectors could not be achieved and as a result, the development differences between regions could not be eliminated.
Regional plans and provincial development plans will be prepared throughout the country to identify the characteristics, differences, development levels, main problems and potentials of regions, provinces and districts.
Target sectors will be identified for each province and district.
Based on the principle of "one province/district one sector", especially for small-scale provinces and districts, target areas will be concretely identified on a sub-sector basis in cooperation with the State and Nation.
An action plan will be drawn up to address the problems of provinces, districts and villages and the timeframe and financing of public institutions and organizations will be determined.
Regional Development Agencies will be established in provinces with industrial potential in order to strengthen the private sector and develop entrepreneurship and competitive spirit.
A risk capital and credit guarantee fund system will be developed for less developed regions in order to mobilize local potential.
Investments to be made will be graded according to their priorities and second priority investments will not be made until the first priority investments are completed.
Development gaps between regions will be eliminated
Regional and provincial development plans will be prepared
Target sectors will be identified for each province and district
Action plan for the problems of provinces, districts and villages
Regional development agencies to be established
Regional investment priorities
Medium-sized provinces with potential in the fields of industry and services will be identified, the infrastructure needs of these centers will be rapidly met and a favorable investment climate will be created for the private sector.
These centers of attraction, which can also be called functional regional centers, are primarily intended to direct the migration tendency from rural areas to metropolitan areas to these centers by rapidly eliminating problems related to drinking water, sewerage, housing and transportation, without causing unplanned urbanization.
The villages with high development tendency will be identified and the infrastructure of these villages will be completed rapidly and these activities will be realized within the framework of State-Nation cooperation.
People living in small villages and hamlets around these functional villages will be encouraged to move towards functional villages while maintaining their own land-based activities.
For the population remaining in agricultural areas, agricultural extension activities will be emphasized, volunteer farmers will be selected and modern and exemplary agricultural practices will be realized.
In order to increase productivity in agriculture, necessary legal and institutional arrangements will be made to prevent the division of agricultural areas and to determine optimum enterprise sizes.
Universities will be specialized in a specific field according to the characteristics of the regions.
Following the creation of the necessary infrastructure to strengthen entrepreneur-university cooperation in the region, the level of entrepreneur-university relationship will be taken as a criterion in resource allocation to the university.
to be determined
Economic and social infrastructure of provinces with regional development potential will be completed rapidly
Infrastructure of villages with high development tendency will be completed rapidly
Modern and exemplary agricultural practices with volunteer farmers
Entrepreneurial university in regional development
For key positions in underdeveloped regions, financial rights will be provided to encourage qualified personnel to work in the region.
C Long-term Economic Development Strategy
Ensuring that our country maximizes the benefits of the opportunities offered by the profound economic and social changes taking place in the world requires a long-term strategy.
Aiming for 2023, the main objective of our long-term strategy is to elevate Turkey to the position of a "leading country" with modern values, global influence and a larger share of the world's GDP.
produces at world standards,
shares its income fairly,
secures human rights and freedoms.
The main target areas of the long-term strategy are to become a globally influential world state that
Ensuring transformation into an information society,
improving the quality of life of the society, and
having an effective voice in regional and global decisions are also the objectives of the long-term development strategy.
To achieve these objectives, the state should be restructured and made more efficient,
community education
and raising the level of health,
correction of income distribution,
strengthening science, technology and innovation capability and developing new technologies,
Increasing efficiency in infrastructure services
It is of great importance to realize transformation in the economic and social structure by protecting the environment.
Young population,
consciousness of national development,
entrepreneurial spirit,
an institutionalized market economy,
industrial structure open to international competition,
transcontinental transportation networks,
natural resources,
Its historical and touristic values will contribute to Turkey's social transformation as it enters the 21st century.
cooperation to be strengthened
Qualified Personnel
Target; "Leader Country Turkey" in 2023
Become a globally influential world state
Economic and social transformation will be achieved for transition to an information society
A production structure that uses advanced technology, has high added value, complies with international standards and mobilizes domestic resources is targeted.
Turkey's full membership of the European Union will help Turkey realize its true potential and share its know-how with the world.
The Eurasian region offers significant opportunities for Turkey to realize its true economic growth potential and become more effective.
It is important to transform the network of relations with the countries of the region into close and lasting ties, to undertake new economic and political initiatives in the region and to reach advanced stages in the cooperation realized so far in the region.
With the establishment of an efficient transportation infrastructure to transport crude oil and natural gas produced in the countries of the region to the world, our country will become one of the world's important energy distribution centers.
We aim for Turkey to achieve an average annual growth rate of around 7 percent by 2023, to increase its per capita income to around 20 thousand dollars by 2023, and to be among the world's top ten economies by the end of the period.
It will be essential that markets and the state play complementary roles in achieving social goals.
In this framework, the state's functions of regulation, supervision and inspection will be enhanced,
local administrations will be strengthened
and civil society organizations will be supported in line with national priorities.
Production structure using technology
Full membership to the European Union
Our country will become a strong and effective position in the Eurasian region
Our country will become an energy distribution center
2023 will be among the top ten economies with an income of 20 thousand dollars per capita
Local governments and
non-governmental organizations will be strengthened
V SOCIAL AND CULTURAL POLICIES
1. Education and Human Resources Development
Have the pride and consciousness of belonging to the Turkish Nation and have internalized our spiritual and cultural values,
developed thinking, perception and problem solving skills,
open to new developments, high sense of responsibility and social sensitivity,
prone to science and technology production,
entrepreneur,
Democrat
cultured
and faithful generations is the main objective of our education policy.
The education system will be restructured to ensure the training of a technologically advanced workforce equipped with the knowledge and skills required by the information society and capable of international competition.
In this framework, educational spaces, curricula, educational technologies and manpower opportunities will be raised to the standards required by the information society in terms of quality and quantity.
Internet access will be made easy and cheap for all educational institutions and libraries from kindergarten to university.
Production and use of information technologies for educational purposes will be encouraged.
Equality of opportunity and opportunity shall be ensured in education and training, and it
shall be essential that all members of society are educated in line with their interests, tendencies and abilities.
Pre-primary education will be made widespread
, and uniformity will be ensured to eliminate disparities between institutions.
Developing awareness of national integrity through programs to be implemented at this level,
A basis for strengthening moral and spiritual values will be created.
Embraced national and spiritual values,
democrat and
entrepreneurs will be trained
An education system that will train the manpower needed by the information society will be established
Easy and cheap internet access will be provided in schools
Equality of opportunity and opportunity in education will be ensured
Pre-school education is widespread
Compulsory basic education will be increased to 12 years.
For this purpose, the necessary educational human resources will be trained and investments in physical infrastructure and educational technologies will be prioritized.
Class sizes in primary schools will be reduced to the ideal number of students.
Dershanes will be prevented from assuming the functions of primary and secondary education institutions.
Religious education, which we believe contributes significantly to national unity and integrity, to the rapprochement between the people and the state and to the elimination of various prejudices, will continue to be provided by the state in schools.
We embrace the view of Atatürk, the founder of our Republic, and believe that religion should be taught by everyone, in the right way, in schools.
For this purpose, measures will be taken to support Religious Culture and Moral Knowledge courses, in short, religious education in all primary and secondary education, starting from kindergarten.
To this end, elective courses will be built into the curriculum from the sixth grade onwards.
Courses such as Qur'an Reading and Meaning, Catechism, and the Life of the Prophet will be among the elective courses.
In primary education, techniques to recognize students through computer-assisted "guidance" will be developed and effective guidance will be provided through skill-based assessment methods, and elective courses will be emphasized from the sixth and seventh grades onwards in order to help reveal talents and guide students towards a profession.
will be made
Compulsory basic education will be increased to twelve years
Classroom with ideal number of students
Classrooms
Religious education
Qur'an and catechism courses will be included as elective courses from the sixth grade of primary school
Students in the sixth grade of primary education
Gifted and talented students will be provided with special education opportunities.
It will be ensured that high achieving secondary school students continue their university education without exams and with state scholarships according to their interests, wishes and abilities.
Emphasis will be placed on teaching Turkish well in kindergarten and primary education.
By putting an end to foreign language education at all levels of education, the
infrastructure for teaching at least one foreign language to students will be created.
Secondary education will be based on program type instead of school type.
Emphasis will be given to formal and non-formal vocational-technical education and skill-building education, and education programs will be reorganized based on occupational standards.
Program integrity will be ensured between vocational and technical secondary education institutions and vocational high schools.
Emphasis will be given to the realization of relationship, communication and interaction between business life and vocational and technical education.
Educational opportunities provided for Turkish children abroad to preserve and develop their national identity will be increased.
will be directed to a profession from the first grade
Gifted and talented students will receive special education
Foreign language teaching instead of foreign language education
Formal and non-formal vocational-technical education will be emphasized
Program integrity in vocational and technical education
Preserving national identity
Universities will be transformed into educational institutions that train the manpower needed by our country, conduct research, lead social development, find solutions to problems with scientific methods, offer cooperation opportunities to tradesmen-artisans and industrialists in the light of science and compete with world universities.
Universities will be made competitive with world universities
We need to make the higher education system more democratic and
will be restored to a productive structure;
Arrangements will be made to increase cooperation and harmony among students, institutions and academic staff.
Harmonization between students, schools and academic staff The
technical equipment of the newly established universities will be completed rapidly, and the faculty members of these universities will be provided with the opportunity to be trained in advanced Turkish universities.
The equipment of new universities will be completed, the
number of universities will be increased and the establishment of private universities will be encouraged for this purpose.
Number of universities to be increased
The university entrance exam will be abolished.
Instead, based on an effective orientation in primary and secondary education, based on the success of secondary education and the "maturation exam" to be held at the end of secondary education
and an equal opportunity university transition system will be put into practice.
Entrance to university without exams to be ensured
Teachers and faculty members equipped with the knowledge of the age will be trained and these professions will be made attractive in terms of working conditions, personal and social rights.
Necessary research infrastructure and employment opportunities will be created in order to make our universities attractive for the academic staff who are abroad for postgraduate studies or academic membership.
Working conditions, personal and social rights of teachers and lecturers will be improved.
Within the framework of lifelong learning approach, all kinds of non-formal education opportunities will be developed, activities to provide skills and vocational training for young people will be increased, local administrations, voluntary organizations and private sector will be supported in this regard.
Non-formal education opportunities will be improved
2. Youth and Sports
We see the investment in youth as the most important investment in Turkey's future.
Youth education,
Health,
employment,
social security
and problems related to the utilization of their free time will be solved.
Problems of Youth will be solved
We consider the implementation of a national sports policy to improve the physical and mental health of every member of Turkish society, especially the youth, as a necessity of the social state understanding.
National sports policy will be implemented
Our approach to youth problems will be holistic in terms of economic, social, cultural and psychological aspects, and sociologists, psychologists and social workers will be utilized in addition to various professional staff at the research, planning and implementation stages.
Youth Problems will be approached scientifically
The level of education will be increased by ensuring that young people benefit from education opportunities within the framework of equal opportunities
and special attention will be paid to ensuring that the education they receive prepares them for the new conditions of the age.
It will be ensured that young people who complete secondary education have a profession, have a good command of foreign languages and use computers.
Young people will have equal opportunities in education
Youth centers will be established where young people can spend their free time, discover their personal talents, benefit from various social and cultural opportunities and guidance services carried out with a scientific understanding.
Election age to be lowered to twenty-five
and the participation of young people in the activities of civil society organizations will be encouraged.
The voting age will be lowered to 25.
Young people will be given the opportunity to continue their higher education in the department of their choice within the framework of guidance at the primary and secondary education levels and to the extent of their abilities.
Higher education according to the talents of young people
Scholarship, loan and accommodation needs of young people studying in secondary and higher education will be met.
Dormitories, libraries and reading rooms will be transformed into cultural centers and modern spaces where computer and internet use and social activities can be carried out.
In secondary and higher education, students will be provided with the necessary opportunities to utilize their free time.
Scholarship, loan and dormitory opportunities for young people will be improved.
Apprenticeship Training Centers will be restructured and their number will be increased in order to overcome the knowledge and skill deficiencies of the working youth, and it will be ensured that the technical workforce needed by the industry will be supplied from these centers by making them efficient and effective.
The working conditions of young people will be organized in a way that will also allow for their education and social activities, and they will be reconciled with the society.
Apprenticeship training centers will be made effective and efficient. The
reasons that push young people to crime will be eliminated, rehabilitation centers and vocational training courses will be opened in order to reintegrate young people who have committed crimes and have been convicted into society by removing them from being potential criminals.
Youth who have committed crimes will be reintegrated into society
Measures will be taken to protect and raise awareness of young people against smoking, alcohol and all kinds of drugs, gambling and similar habits, prostitution, anarchy and terrorism.
Young people will be protected from bad habits
Strengthening the family institution in order to prevent young people from committing crimes and bad habits,
Emphasis will be placed on creating social and cultural grounds where young people can express themselves, and opportunities for sports and social activities will be improved.
Social and cultural grounds will be created for the youth.
The youth will be raised equipped with national values in order to fight against the views that aim to eliminate the indivisible integrity of the state with its country and nation.
Youth will be raised equipped with national values
Cultural programs that blend our national and spiritual values with modern and democratic elements will be prioritized.
Priority for cultural programs
By preventing people who are prone to making easy money, who are unqualified, have no experience, and lack virtue from setting an example for the youth,
Through popular media such as cinema and television, hardworking, determined, patriotic, visionary and moral people will be presented as an ideal, and arrangements will be made to encourage and incentivize them in this way.
Determined, patriotic, horizon-oriented and moral youth will be raised.
Research and promotion activities aimed at getting to know youth problems and youth more closely will be accelerated and the high potential power of youth will be directed to useful fields.
Youth research and promotion activities
Education-employment relations will be restored to a dynamic structure, unemployment with a diploma will be prevented by making a manpower planning in accordance with the needs and finding a job will not be left to coincidence.
Diploma unemployment to be prevented
The Turkish sports organization will be reorganized in accordance with the needs of our country and the requirements of the age.
Contemporary Turkish sports organization
Multi-purpose and local characteristics will be taken into consideration in the establishment of sports fields and facilities, and existing facilities will be utilized to their full capacity.
Sports fields and facilities according to the characteristics of the region.
Emphasis will be given to training the necessary manpower in line with our national sports policy, existing education and training institutions will be improved, those with sufficient facilities and teaching staff will be transformed into 'Faculty of Sports Sciences', research and development activities will be accelerated.
Faculties of Sports Sciences will be established.
Sports medicine majors will be expanded in faculties of medicine by approaching athlete health from a scientific perspective.
Athlete health will be prioritized
Necessary measures will be taken for the development and popularization of traditional sports along with modern sports branches, and oil wrestling and javelin will be internationalized.
Traditional sports
Young people will be developed socially, spiritually and mentally
In sports activities in schools, not only physical development will be targeted, but also social, spiritual, mental and moral qualities will be acquired and developed in students.
Athletes will be provided with social security,
amateur sports will be encouraged, successful athletes will be supported financially and morally as our source of pride and pride.
Athletes will be brought under the social security umbrella.
In order to contribute to the cohesion and rapprochement of the Turkic world, 'Turkic World Sports Festivals' will be organized.
Turkish World Sports Festivals will be organized
Necessary investments will be made and activities in this field will be supported in order to organize major international sports organizations and Olympic Games in every branch in our country.
Investments will be made for international organizations
Qualified and sufficient areas for sports will be established in cities.
Sports opportunities for cities
Amateur sports activities of local administrations and voluntary organizations will be supported.
Support will be given to amateur sports
3. Family, Women and Children
in the protection and development of national and spiritual values and in strengthening national unity and solidarity.
The institution of the family is of great importance
The institution of family will be strengthened and policies to protect the cohesion between family members and family integrity will be developed.
Family institution will be strengthened
Preventing factors that weaken the family and its social functions,
we believe that women and their rights should be protected and have a respected place in society
Women and their rights will be protected
Employment opportunities will be improved to ensure that every family has an adequate and continuous income.
Sufficient income for every family
Women's literacy and labor force participation rates are low.
Women's level of education will be increased and their social position will be strengthened by ensuring that they play a greater role in the development process, business life and decision-making mechanisms.
Women's position in society will be elevated
Children's quality of life will be improved and their future will be secured,
develop a sense of responsibility towards their families, society and the state;
prevent them from being pushed into crime, street and working life, and substance abuse
Improving children's quality of life
Children with disabilities and children in need of protection will be protected and raised primarily by their families and social support will be provided to families in need.
Disabled children will be protected
Programs will be prepared to encourage children to engage in activities that promote culture, arts, sports, folklore, reading and research habits.
Children will be directed towards social activities
Children will be protected from harmful broadcasts; broadcasts and programs that include violence, sexuality and abuse, and that encourage substance abuse and smoking will be prevented from being broadcast during children's television viewing hours.
Children will be protected from harmful publications
Child labor and all forms of child abuse will be prevented.
Child abuse will be prevented
4. Culture and Art
Turkish, which is one of the indispensable basic elements of our national identity, will be taught and used correctly at all levels of education, care will be taken to ensure that it is used correctly by the media, and importance will be attached to people's use of living Turkish in their daily lives.
Turkish language will be taught and used correctly.
Scientific studies will be emphasized in order to prevent negativities such as cultural degeneration, cultural conflict and alienation.
Turkish language research will be emphasized and efforts will be made to use Turkish as a language of science, art, trade and tele-communication at the international level.
Cultural degeneration will be prevented
Research will be carried out to reveal the history of Turkish science, culture and thought in all its richness.
Turkish culture will be studied and
relations with Turkic states and communities will be based on the principle of "unity in language, thought and work".
As a fundamental element of developing economic and cultural cooperation, importance will be given to language and cultural research in Turkish-speaking countries and communities, and conditions will be created to make Turkish understandable and usable in all its dialects.
In relations with Turkic states and communities, "unity in language, thought and work" will be the basis.
Turkish Cultural Centers will be opened abroad, especially in Turkic Republics and EU countries, in order to teach Turkish and promote Turkish culture.
Turkish Cultural Centers will be opened. In the
face of different cultures, it will be ensured that national cultural values will be introduced and adopted to the nation in order to produce quality and responsive literary works that will prevent new generations from suffering from culture shock and identity crisis.
Our national cultural values will be introduced to the nation.
Practices that result in the erosion of our national cultural values and cause confusion of cultural values will be prevented.
Our historical and cultural values will be protected.
International cultural cooperation programs will be developed to ensure that Turkish culture becomes a center of attraction for surrounding cultures.
A center of attraction for surrounding cultures
Based on the idea that an understanding that is alienated from its own national art and despises it cannot be contemporary, art will be ensured to guide society towards the right values.
Artists will be protected in every era and age by placing them under the umbrella of social security
Artists will be provided with social security In
order to protect our arts and crafts, to provide social and economic benefits and to reflect our cultural values in the goods and services produced, cultural values will be transferred to designs.
In this way, forgotten cultural values will be kept alive and transmitted to future generations.
A "National Culture Industry" will be established in the sense of creating and developing the basic institutions and mechanisms for the survival of Turkish culture and art.
Turkish culture and arts will be kept alive by reflecting them in designs
Traditional Turkish arts and folklore will be protected, developed and promoted.
Maintenance, repair and preservation of heirloom monuments, protection and development of Turkish architecture, music, theater, cinema and literature will be made a state policy.
Traditional arts and folklore will be preserved and developed. The destruction of
written works, which have been the fundamental artifacts of our national culture for centuries, will be prevented, and these works will be brought to our society in today's written and spoken language, and will be made available to our libraries, schools and the market.
The State Ottoman Archive will be classified, organized and brought into today's literature.
Written works, which are the basic works of our culture, will be preserved.
Emphasis will be given to the production of children's books, cartoons, comics enriched with national motifs, and works that educate and develop such as environment and environmentalism.
In terms of the formation of children's personalities and the assimilation of cultural values, a "national cartoon industry" will be developed and our culture will be promoted through the export of the films to be produced.
A national cartoon industry will be developed.
Our cultural works in the major libraries and archives of the Turkic world and other states will be identified and classified according to their subjects and put into service in various centers.
Our cultural artifacts will be classified
By preserving our national cultural values and protecting the identity of our citizens abroad,
However, it will be ensured that the state and voluntary organizations develop and implement joint projects so that they can live without falling into conflict with the society they live in.
To this end, care will be taken to ensure that the broadcasts of national television channels are available for viewing, especially in countries with a high concentration of Turkish citizens.
It will be ensured that citizens abroad protect our national cultural values and identities
. Mass media will be ensured to broadcast in a socially responsible manner in living and sustaining our cultural values.
Media Responsibility
5. Working Life and Social Security
In order for citizens to be sure of their future and to live a high standard life, a social insurance system in modern norms, which operates on the basis of blessing and burden, will be expanded to cover the entire population.
The social insurance system will be
The social insurance system will be restructured on the basis of risks and a system that is "feasible" in terms of its legal dimension, "acceptable" to the relevant parties and "sustainable" in terms of its financial dimension will be established.
In this framework, pension insurance will be separated from health insurance and the social insurance system will be restructured as "Pension Insurance Institution" and "Health Insurance Institution".
Health and pension insurance will be structured separately. The
Pension Insurance Institution will be managed in an effective and autonomous structure within an actuarial balance, fund management will be activated,
pensions will be paid to everyone in proportion to their contribution to the system
and pensioners will be ensured to share in the increasing prosperity.
Pensions for everyone according to their contribution to the system
The number of active insured will be increased by preventing uninsured work and employment
and in this way, the sustainability of pension insurance will be ensured,
and victimization of the insured will be prevented.
Uninsured work and
flexible working methods will be put into practice and necessary arrangements will be made in the field of working life and social insurance.
Flexible working methods will be implemented
Working life will be supported by a sustainable social security system that meets economic and social needs.
Labor laws will be redrafted in the light of policies that take into account the protection of work as well as the balanced protection of workers' and employers' rights.
The rights of the worker and the employer as well as the work will be protected.
Trade union rights will be brought in line with contemporary norms.
It will be ensured that the concept of civil servant is redefined and that employees outside a narrowed concept of civil servant are provided with modern trade union rights.
Trade union rights in contemporary norms will be ensured. The
Economic and Social Council, which is an important institution of social reconciliation in solving problems in working life and establishing labor peace, will be operated effectively.
The Economic and Social Council will operate effectively.
Participation will be ensured by strengthening multiple consultation mechanisms.
Participation will be ensured
A wage system that will eliminate the wage imbalance among employees, that is based on merit and success, and that establishes a relationship between objectives and results according to performance will be established.
Performance-based wage system
Instead of only engaging in wage unionism, trade unions will be encouraged to concentrate on training and research activities, to focus on skill acquisition programs to adapt to changes in the business environment and technology, and to contribute to labor peace.
Trade unions will be directed towards training and research activities
"Occupational Standards Examination and Certification System" will be established which will directly affect the quality of education and the skill level of the labor force and ensure coordination between education and the labor market
Occupational standards certification system
6. Health
The main objective will be to establish a health system that makes life meaningful and valuable, improves the quality of life and the joy of living, prolongs human life, and is based on the satisfaction of citizens and service providers.
Health system based on citizen satisfaction
Preventive and primary health services will be provided free of charge by the state in accordance with the principles of equality and equity, in an easily accessible and usable manner.
Primary health care services will be provided free of charge
Primary health care units will be strengthened and "Family Medicine" will be introduced, especially in urban areas.
In rural areas, equipped health teams will be deployed to provide mobile services.
Family Medicine and mobile health services will become widespread
Technological infrastructure and manpower capabilities of hospitals will be improved, and management capacity will be enhanced.
Instead of chief physicians becoming hospital administrators, professional management will be introduced.
Professional hospital management will be implemented
In hospitals, appointments for examinations, laboratory services and surgeries will be computerized and interference by health personnel in the appointment system will be strictly prevented.
Appointments in hospitals will be computerized
"full day - full capacity work" will be ensured to better utilize the patient bed equipment and manpower capacity of hospitals.
For this purpose, improvements will be made in the personal rights of health personnel, and
payments under various names that are not included in the fee schedule will not be allowed to be made directly to the service providers or to foundations and foundations.
Hospitals will work full-time and at full capacity
All citizens will be covered by health insurance.
Premium-based health insurance will also cover poor citizens, whose insurance premiums will be covered by the state.
With the implementation of these arrangements, the "Green Card" will be terminated.
Everyone will be covered by health insurance. With the
expansion of health insurance to the entire population, the exchange of money between citizens and hospitals and health personnel will be ended.
All payments on behalf of the citizen will be made by the health insurance.
Citizens will no longer have to pay at the hospital
Advertising and promotional activities of pharmaceutical companies targeting pharmacies and physicians, which affect the behavior of health personnel, lead to drug waste and increase drug prices, will be restricted and professional corruption will be prevented.
medicine waste
Hospitals belonging to different public institutions and organizations will be restructured to serve everyone, not just their own members.
The Health Insurance Agency will be able to purchase services from all public and private hospitals through a protocol.
All hospitals will be made open to everyone
Citizens will have the "right to choose hospitals and physicians".
However, the exercise of this right shall not be contrary to the "Health Referral Chain", the principles of which will be determined by the health insurance administration and the Ministry of Health.
Citizens will be given the right to choose hospitals and physicians.
Medical education will be carried out according to modern standards, and health personnel will be assigned to places where they are needed after serving for a certain period of time in well-equipped health facilities in order to prepare them for the profession.
Medical education will be provided at contemporary standards.
In order to provide emergency aid services in an additional, fast and high quality manner, manpower, physical equipment and equipment facilities will be improved.
Efficient, fast and high quality emergency aid service
VI- EFFECTIVE PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION
Within the framework of the principles of the democratic rule of law
equity,
The main objective of public administration is to establish a management structure and functioning that considers efficiency and new developments together, and to establish a flexible and fast functioning structure in the administration according to the needs, and to establish an understanding of quality service delivery and effective methods for this.
Citizen-centered public administration
Public administration will be restructured with a modern understanding in order to fulfill the common demands of the nation with all its institutions and rules, including the legislative, executive and judiciary, and to establish citizen satisfaction.
Public administration will be restructured
In order to ensure the peace and welfare of the society and the effective and continuous utilization of basic services by citizens, strategies in accordance with the principles of public administration will be developed first.
Efficiency in services will be ensured.
By determining the functions of the State, duties will be distributed among central, provincial and local administrations, and the
organizational structure will be reorganized in line with the services to be carried out by the State.
Transfers of duties between institutions will be prevented, unity in service will be ensured and waste of resources will be eliminated.
An organizational structure in line with services will be established
Although four new ministries will be established, the number of executive ministries will be reduced to 17 and the number of state ministries to 2 by merging some ministries, and a Deputy Prime Minister's Office will also be created.
Thus, the number of ministries, including the Prime Ministry, will be reduced from 38 to 21.
The number of ministries, including the Prime Ministry, will be reduced to 21
. The Prime Ministry will be structured in a way to effectively fulfill its duties of regulation, monitoring, supervision and coordination, and the number of affiliated and related institutions will be reduced from 54 to 9, while the others will be transferred to the relevant ministries.
Prime Ministry will be the regulator and coordinator
In order to improve public administration, the quality of the system with all its institutions and rules will be improved together with the quality of the manpower that will realize and sustain the transformation.
The quality of systems and people will be improved.
Policy-making capacity in public administration will be improved and alignment of public policies will be ensured.
Administrative development will be made continuous and will be tied to forms and procedures that will not be affected by changes in government.
Institutions will be provided with a dynamic structure and functioning capable of continuous and systematic self-development.
A continuous and systematic dynamic structure will be established in public administration. The
role of the public sector in direct service provision will be reduced and it will be ensured that it performs its regulatory and supervisory duties better; alternative policies will be produced by continuously evaluating whether the policies are effective or not; citizens will be enabled to exercise their right to information and accountability rights on how services are provided, those responsible and their quality.
Citizens will be given the right to information and accountability
Openness in public administration,
Participation
fairness
and accountability principles will be realized, ensuring quality of service and citizen satisfaction.
Quality in service and citizen satisfaction
Citizen oversight in public services will be ensured through the establishment of boards with the participation of service beneficiaries.
Citizen participation The
audit system, which is limited to legal audit, will be replaced by performance audit based on efficiency, effectiveness and savings, and the
function of improving the administration through audit will be made effective.
Public officials will be held accountable for their actions as well as their omissions.
Public officials will be held accountable.
Positions will be transformed from places of influence and power to places of service, and corruption and favoritism will be prevented.
Favoritism will be prevented
Performance standards will be set for each institution,
will be held accountable according to set performance criteria,
The continuation of managers in their positions will be evaluated according to their performance.
Performance-based management
Arrangements to ensure the recruitment of qualified personnel, which take into account objectivity and equal opportunity in the entry to public office, will be developed and maintained.
Regional imbalance in employment will be eliminated and employment of public officials in sufficient quantity and quality will be ensured in all parts of the country.
Employment of qualified personnel will be ensured
Civil servants and other public servants will be defined and union rights in line with international norms will be provided to personnel other than civil servants who perform the essential and continuous services of the state.
Trade union rights in international norms
The need for manpower in the public sector will be determined through job analysis and manpower planning, and personnel will be recruited as needed and according to the job.
Personnel according to need and work
The personnel regime will be based on merit and performance will be evaluated.
Compensation to consist of a basic salary and a performance fee,
equal pay for work of equal value will be ensured.
The pension will be based on the average premium paid throughout the civil service and the distortion in the system will be eliminated
Equal pay for work of equal value
Flexible forms of employment will be put into practice and necessary arrangements will be made in the relevant laws, particularly in social security legislation.
Flexible employment will be implemented
Progression and promotion will be based on objective rules, and different models will be applied according to the nature of the service in order to make the system functional.
Different model for job advancement
Local government reform will be initiated by defining the relationship between the central administration and local governments, and the exact boundaries of authority, duties and responsibilities, and will be implemented as part of the public administration reform.
Local government reform
Regulations on local governments will be made by taking into account the needs of local governments instead of regulations based on the needs and criteria of the central administration.
Tailor-made organization
Local governments will be provided with strong sources of revenue in parallel with their duties, powers and responsibilities that will be redefined.
Strong revenue sources
In order to ensure efficiency in local services and prevent waste of resources, the principles regarding the establishment of municipalities will be reorganized.
New principles for the establishment of municipalities
A public administration in which citizens are satisfied and happy with the services they receive from public institutions, are able to control administrative actions and transactions, and ultimately have absolute trust will be established.
Trusted public administration will be established
VII- FIGHT AGAINST MORAL DEGENERATION AND CORRUPTION
Weakening of our understanding of social solidarity and cooperation
and especially the destruction of our national and spiritual values,
years of high inflation,
unemployment
and major socio-economic problems, such as income inequality, have a decisive impact on this thought-provoking picture.
It is imperative to increase the resilience of our social and political structure in the face of such adversities.
Increasing the resilience of our social and political structure against adversity
The Nationalist Movement Party considers the fight against immorality and corruption as a matter of national politics due to the destruction of social life, democratic regime and moral values.
Fight against corruption is a national political issue
Social peace
and reaching dimensions that threaten the very existence of the democratic system,
shaking confidence in state institutions
"clean politics-clean governance" will be rapidly established by decisively and effectively combating moral pollution and corruption that cause social destruction.
Clean politics - clean governance will be established
It is imperative to put an end to the understanding of corruption that feeds negativities such as the greed of getting rich in a short time, corner-cutting and laziness in society and to establish a "culture of honesty" as a lifestyle.
In order to ensure this transformation of mentality, a total awareness-raising campaign will be launched, and virtues such as honesty, cleanliness and responsibility will be instilled in our people in the family environment, at school, in religious neighborhoods, in business life, in bureaucracy, in the media and in the military.
A culture of honesty will be created
An autonomous "Anti-Corruption Board" will be established to prevent corruption, to develop effective and permanent policies in the fight against corruption and to ensure coordination among relevant institutions.
Anti-Corruption Board to be established
The audit system will be structurally and functionally reorganized to ensure effectiveness in preventing corruption.
Efficiency in supervision will be ensured
All public institutions and organizations will be included in the scope of audit
and performance auditing will be ensured in addition to an effective audit of compliance with the law.
Performance audit will be conducted
In order to prevent the cover-up of audit findings, conclusions and recommendations, necessary legal arrangements will be made to ensure that the principle of independence prevails in the audit system, in the sense of providing appropriate guarantees.
Audit independence
It is imperative to follow up the results of audit reports, to set national audit standards, and to ensure communication and coordination between audit units.
Coordination will be ensured in inspection
A comprehensive arrangement will be made to reward those who help expose the abuse of public resources and all kinds of corruption and irregularities and to protect whistleblowers.
Rewarding those who protect public resources A
code of ethical and administrative conduct that encourages integrity will be established.
The jobs that cannot be held by those who leave public office will be redefined to prevent interest relations that will lead to the loss of public resources.
A code of conduct will be established
Cooperation between the State, private sector and non-governmental organizations will be ensured to combat corruption and strengthen moral values in society.
Cooperation in the fight against corruption
Acceptance of gifts by public officials that will affect their attitudes and behaviors towards work and business owners and that will lead to privileges and priorities will be prevented by effective legal sanctions.
Gift ban to be introduced in public sector
In order to confiscate the profits obtained from corruption and to deprive the criminals of these profits, legal arrangements will be made to enable the confiscation of the wealth of persons found guilty of corruption, wherever they are located and in whose name they are registered.
Corrupt officials will be charged for the damage they caused to the state
Administrative and legal arrangements will be put in place to minimize bureaucratic procedures such as unnecessary permits and registrations that hinder business life and opportunities that increase bribery and corruption such as mandatory donations and heavy taxes.
Fighting bribery
Training and appropriate tools will be provided to increase the expertise of persons and institutions responsible for combating corruption and equip them with the knowledge and skills necessary to carry out their tasks.
Increase the expertise of officials
A system of openness and accountability will be established in public administration.
Accountability
Achieving success in the fight against moral pollution and corruption,
to establish our nation's trust in the state
and an "Ombudsman" system will be established to ensure the formation of public awareness.
An Ombudsman's Office will be established
Morality laws will be enacted to prevent corruption in all areas, covering public administration, civil society organizations and private enterprise.
Morality laws will be enacted
In the curriculum programs for the education of our children, who are the guarantee of our future; fundamental rights and freedoms,
their responsibilities before the law,
actions and behaviors that do not harm society,
value public property at least as much as their own property
and human relations will be included.
In addition to
imposing severe penalties on corrupt public officials, those who cheat consumers and those who do not pay their taxes, it will be ensured that these are publicized.
Heavy penalties will be imposed on corruption
Total quality management will be implemented in state administration in order to eliminate the poor quality of public services provided to citizens.
Total quality management will be established Establishing
a principled, level-headed and clean management approach in Turkish political and bureaucratic life is one of the approaches that our Party places special value on.
Principled, level-headed, clean governance
VIII - JUSTICE
Justice, fundamental rights
and the guarantee of freedoms
and we see it as the foundation of the State.
For this reason, the judiciary should express a structure that people can trust without hesitation, where the sense of "justice" is riveted in minds and hearts.
The training of judges and prosecutors as conscientious and knowledgeable and the establishment of "justice of opinion" will be the guarantee of trust in the judiciary.
Establishing the justice of conviction
The legal system will be completely overhauled and the legislation regarding our domestic law will be renewed in a way that will not harm national unity and integrity, and universal democratic norms will be transferred to our law with the same principles.
A legal system in line with universal norms
Amendments to ensure that legislation and the administrative and judicial system comply with the obligations imposed by the conventions to which Turkey is a party will be made, where necessary, through referendums allowing direct public participation.
Referendums will be held on necessary issues.
Regulations will be realized based on the rule of law in the broadest sense, not on the rule of law, taking into account universal norms.
Rule of law, not the rule of law
Citizens' rule of law
and an understanding of justice in which people trust and believe that the freedom to seek justice is implemented with all its institutions and rules will be made dominant.
Freedom to seek and obtain information
The legal aid institution will be effectively restructured in order to ensure that those who do not have the necessary financial means can fully exercise their constitutional right to seek justice.
Legal aid institution to be improved
Specialization of judges and public prosecutors in some specific areas such as organized crime, unfair competition, foreign exchange transactions, insurance, money laundering and capital market crimes will be ensured.
Specialization in special fields will be ensured.
Crimes will be redefined and some acts will be punished only administratively, and a fair balance will be established between crime and punishment.
Justice will be established between crime and punishment. The
election of members of the High Council of Judges and Prosecutors will be reorganized in accordance with democratic procedures and in a way that does not harm the independence of the judiciary.
Judicial independence will be ensured
Obstacles to the jurisprudence-making function of the higher judiciary will be removed, and the workload of the higher judiciary will be reduced through the use of computer technology in judicial services and legal arrangements.
Judicial workload will be reduced
In order to increase the efficiency of execution services, the necessary physical and technical infrastructure deficiencies will be eliminated and the organizational and personnel structure will be strengthened.
Prisoners and convicts shall be housed, fed, treated, transferred and transferred, educated and rehabilitated in penal execution institutions in a dignified and secure manner.
Modern execution services will be provided The
restructuring of the judicial organization in accordance with social needs and the requirements of the age will be ensured.
New structure in judicial organization
Specialized courts will be established in big cities without disrupting the overall integrity of the judiciary.
Specialized courts
Public prosecutor's offices and law enforcement agencies will be strengthened in terms of tools, equipment and laboratory facilities in order to collect and preserve the evidence of crime by using advanced technology and modem methods without distortion and alteration.
Healthy collection of evidence will be ensured
Computer programs to be developed according to crime types will support courts, public prosecutors' offices and law enforcement agencies and prevent procedural errors.
Procedural errors will be prevented
By establishing a computer network between law enforcement agencies, public prosecutor's offices, courts and high courts, the General Directorate of Prisons and Detention Houses and the General Directorate of Judicial Registry, it will be ensured that justice is administered quickly and accurately, free from procedural and material errors, from the moment the crime is committed until the conclusion of the trial, the execution of the sentence and its deletion from the judicial registry.
The computer system will be strengthened by establishing a connection with the computer systems of all institutions closely related to the judicial process such as population, land registry, tax, etc.
Judicial process will be accelerated, technological judicial system will be established
The need for judges, prosecutors and auxiliary personnel will be met and necessary improvements will be made in their financial and social rights and other personal rights, thus making the profession of judge and prosecutor more attractive.
Personal rights of judicial personnel
In order to eliminate the tendency to commit crime, opportunities will be created to utilize the services of psychologists, pedagogues and sociologists to monitor ex-convicts in their social life.
Prevent recidivism
Law enforcement forces providing forensic services will be restructured administratively, will be subjected to in-service training in order to increase their professional knowledge on modem evidence collection methods and techniques, and will be supported with tools, equipment and computer systems,
Thus, while eliminating allegations of human rights violations on the one hand,
on the other hand, acquittal of perpetrators of crimes due to lack of evidence will be prevented
Acquittal of perpetrators of crimes due to lack of evidence will be prevented
Care will be taken to protect and strengthen the autonomous structure of the Forensic Medicine Institution within the understanding of judicial independence, and regulations and audits will be activated to ensure that the institution makes impartial decisions free from external influences.
Effective and autonomous forensic medicine The
The legal system will be completely overhauled and the legislation regarding our domestic law will be renewed in a way that will not harm national unity and integrity, and universal democratic norms and European Union norms will be incorporated into our law with the same principles.
Legislation on our domestic law will be renewed
IX - URBANIZATION, HOUSING AND ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY
1. Urbanization and Housing
In parallel with industrialization
We believe that the implementation of a correct urbanization policy is as important and prioritized as industrialization,
The Ministry sees these two elements as complementary to each other with the right plans to be made in line with the basic principle of living in a healthy environment.
Urbanization policy parallel to industrialization
Land registry and cadastre works will be completed at the national level;
Housing,
industry,
tourism,
Agriculture
and other areas will be eliminated through the completion of upper-scale plans,
orderly urbanization
and the infrastructure for industrialization will be created.
Upper scale plans will be completed
In order to establish urbanization and industrialization together in a healthy and livable environment, industrial, technological and organized industrial zones, financial and commercial centers with adequate infrastructure will be established together with residential areas.
Urbanization and industrialization in a livable environment
In order to prevent agglomeration and unplanned construction in cities due to industrialization and migration, land production will be increased by establishing a relationship between urbanization rate and land supply.
Land production will be increased
Within the framework of the fundamental determinism of national culture to prevent degeneration in the urban fabric
city and urban culture will be created.
In addition to leaving a healthy environment and city infrastructure for future generations
cultural
and urban plans will be realized for settlements in accordance with the natural structure.
A culture of self will be created
With the rehabilitation of slum areas, it is possible to connect these areas with urban centers socially.
and economic integration will be ensured.
Slum areas will be rehabilitated
Technology and standard materials based on earthquake resistance will be used in the production of housing and all kinds of buildings, emphasis will be given to the production of healthy, safe, quality and affordable housing, and effective supervision will be carried out from the ground survey stage to the stage of occupancy license.
Earthquake-resistant materials will be used in building production
Urban planning and urban management information system will be established
City management information system
The real estate inventory of our country will be prepared and existing buildings will be defined in terms of quality and quantity, and urbanization and housing policies will be guided accordingly.
Real estate inventory to be prepared
Land speculation will be prevented by converting state-owned land into land, thereby reducing housing costs.
Land speculation will be prevented
In order to enable low and middle-income citizens to acquire healthy housing, land production with infrastructure will be expanded and land will be converted into housing through revenue sharing.
The houses produced in this way will be sold to low and middle income citizens with long-term affordable installments.
To this end, long-term housing loan mechanisms will be developed.
In addition, social housing for the needy and orphans will also be produced in this way.
Low- and middle-income citizens will be made homeowners with favorable conditions
In order to minimize the damages of earthquakes and other natural disasters, the necessary legal arrangements, training and organizational works will be finalized rapidly before the disaster strikes.
Natural disaster will be minimized
All kinds of settlements will be established in safe areas with completed geographical and geological surveys, while existing settlements will be evaluated in terms of geological surveys, environmental layout plans and quality, and transformation projects for healthy, safe and orderly urbanization and housing will be implemented.
Healthy, safe and orderly urbanization
Arrangements will be made to prevent construction in risky areas by determining areas according to risk priority in land use and zoning plans.
Construction will be prevented in risky areas
Arbitrary practices in zoning planning and changes that cause victimization of citizens will be eliminated, and building inspection and insurance system will be expanded.
Building supervision and insurance system
Institutional multi-headedness in this field will be eliminated through an administrative structure that will include zoning-planning, land registry, cadastre, urbanization, environment, natural disasters and housing.
Eliminating institutional multi-headedness
2. Environment
The environment to prevent the pollution, destruction and loss of our natural, historical and cultural resources;
based on science and reason,
will be approached from a perspective that does not conflict with our history, culture, beliefs and national interests
A science-based approach to the environment
The right to live in a clean environment is one of the fundamental rights of every human being.
With this understanding, we will overcome environmental problems with a sustainable development model that we will prepare within a rational protection, use and development program instead of the development-environmental protection dilemma,
protecting natural and historical richness and providing clean, livable natural environment for future generations
and the transfer of an environment with preserved cultural values will be ensured.
Environmental problem will be overcome with sustainable development model
In the formulation of the national environmental policy, in addition to evaluating the cost-benefit and risk factors of each project in terms of economy, health and environment
national and regional priorities will also be taken into account,
Environmental sensitivity will be given due importance during the site selection phase of the facilities.
Evaluate the cost-benefit and risk aspects of each project
In order to ensure a healthy structure for tourism, industry, agriculture and urbanization, environmental plans will be completed throughout the country.
Environmental Plans
Environmental problems will be addressed as an element of the general development plan within the framework of predetermined criteria, rather than as problems to be solved after the occurrence of pollution
Addressing the environmental problem before pollution
Investments for wastewater treatment and recycling of solid wastes as an economic value will be given importance and priority and industrial enterprises and municipalities will be encouraged for this purpose.
Investments in wastewater treatment and solid waste recycling
Integrated environmental policies that take into account water, air, soil and sea together will be developed.
Integrated environmental policies
Environmental police and specialized environmental courts will be established to ensure effectiveness in environmental control.
Environmental police will be established
Information system
Environmental information system will be established
Environmental pollution measurement stations
Meteorological measurement stations will be developed in such a way that they can also perform measurements related to environmental pollution, and the database to be created will be made available during the project design phase of new facilities.
Harmonization of economic policy, environmental policy
Economic and social policies and environmental policy will be harmonized,
human health while development is taking place,
ecological balance
cultural, historical and aesthetic values will be protected.
Fertile land will be protected
Fertile agricultural land will be protected and misuse and erosion will be prevented.
The use of environmentally friendly technology in investments will be encouraged.
Environmentally friendly technology
In order to strengthen the sense of social ownership of our natural wealth, environmental awareness will be developed, the media will be encouraged and educational curricula will be enriched.
Training for environmental awareness
X - SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY POLICY
Today, as in every field, there is a rapid change in science and technology.
In the 21st century, labor-intensive technologies are expected to be replaced by knowledge-intensive technologies.
In this process of change, countries that do not lag behind developments in the field of technology and science, which is the source of contemporary technology, will gain an edge in international competition.
Ultimately, superiority in science and technology will be decisive in redistributing the world's wealth and increasing social welfare.
Superiority in science and technology will be decisive in increasing social welfare
The main goal of the Nationalist Movement Party is to close the gap with developed countries in science and technology and to ensure the transition to an information society.
Our science and technology policy is based on a holistic approach that takes into account the interaction between science-technology-innovation-production-tim.
Policy based on the interaction between science, technology, innovation and production The
Ministry of Science, Technology and Communication will be established in order to ensure transition to an information society and to ensure the effective conduct and coordination of scientific and technological research and development.
Ministry of Science, Technology and Communication
The e-Turkey project will be realized rapidly in cooperation with the private sector, non-governmental organizations and research institutions in order to establish the infrastructure of the information society, to provide faster, cheaper and more secure internet access, to regulate the legislation on information security, electronic commerce and personal rights in accordance with the virtual environment, to establish the necessary communication infrastructure and to ensure integration with the world, especially Europe, in the electronic environment.
With the e-Turkey project, the transition to an information society is rapidly
Public services will be provided in electronic environment.
In this way, fast and quality services will be provided, and many practices that cause corruption and irregularities will be eliminated.
Services will be provided electronically.
Everyone will be given a virtual identity card containing all kinds of information such as population, education, health, social security and tax.
Every citizen will receive an electronic mail address and electronic signature along with his/her identity card at birth.
Everyone will have a virtual identity.
Emphasis will be placed on preparing the society for the information age by extending the use of computers and the latest communication technologies in public institutions and organizations, training centers and industry.
All schools, libraries, municipalities and mukhtars' offices will be provided with at least one computer and internet access
The use of computers and the latest communication technology will be widespread
Virtual stock exchanges will be established for agricultural and industrial enterprises, and trading transactions will be encouraged from these centers.
Virtual exchanges will be established
The Nationalist Movement Party is committed to making Turkey advanced in science and technology production;
have gained the ability to rapidly transform the science and technology produced into economic and social benefits;
and to become a country that has established the National Innovation System necessary for this.
National Innovation System to be established
Following the establishment of the National Innovation System, sectoral and local innovation systems will be established and the system will be structured according to regional characteristics.
Sectoral and local innovation systems
Scientific and technological research will be transformed into production and social benefit through innovations and patents.
In this framework, support will be provided for R&D activities necessary for technological innovations and renewal of technological products
Research will be transformed into production
More public resources will be allocated to R&D investments.
In addition, private sector investments in R&D and technology production will be supported.
Within this framework, the Nationalist Movement Party aims to increase the share of R&D expenditures in GDP from 0.5% to 2.5% within five years.
In case a marketable product emerges as a result of R&D activities, additional support will be provided for follow-up studies.
More resources will be allocated to R&D investments
An effective university-industry cooperation will be realized to provide manpower and financial resources, which are the most important elements in the production and use of technology.
In this context, the number of university-industry joint research centers and researchers will be increased.
University-industry cooperation and joint research centers The procurement
policies of all public institutions, especially those for the national defense industry, will be based on R&D and will be used to improve our science, technology and innovation capability.
Procurement policy to be developed based on R&D
In order to make maximum use of the European Union Sixth Framework Program, which constitutes an important resource for scientific and technological research projects, universities, research institutions and the private sector will be encouraged to develop joint projects with international organizations.
Making maximum use of the EU Sixth Framework Program
Nuclear technology will be utilized to meet energy needs.
In addition, technological research will be prioritized to utilize alternative energy sources such as fusion energy, solar energy, wind energy, biomass energy and geothermal energy.
Research on alternative energy sources will be prioritized.
Importance will be given to the transfer, production and use of microelectronics-based information technologies.
In this framework, the production of the latest technologies such as satellite and fiber optic communications and computer hardware and software will be encouraged.
Re-use of information technologies in production
The state will spare no sacrifice for the development of the aviation and space industry, which is a strategic sector.
Likewise, importance and priority will be given to the production of new materials (nanotechnology) and biotechnology, which are among the strategic technologies of today and the future.
Aviation and space industry and biotechnology will be developed.
Ecology and environmental protection technologies will be developed to protect our natural wealth and the environment.
Ecology and environmental technologies
In order to train superior brain power, a new organization will be introduced in education and foreign education opportunities will be utilized.
Employment of manpower trained in strategic issues under favorable conditions will be ensured.
Conditions will be created for cultivating superior brainpower
With the completion of the establishment of the "Ankara Basic Research Center", which will also assume the title of the first Science City of the Turkic World, our country will make a leap in scientific and technological development with its own dynamics and will have the mission of the scientific cooperation center of the Turkic World.
Moreover, ATAM will be one of the cornerstones of achieving the ideal of "Leading Country Turkey" in the 100th anniversary of our Republic.
A science city will be established under the name "Ankara Basic Research Center"
XI - DEVELOPMENT AND INSTITUTIONALIZATION OF DEMOCRACY
Our party is committed to the rule of law,
as a guarantee of human honor and dignity, freedom of opinion, enterprise, religion and conscience,
It believes that democracy, which is not only a political regime but also a way of life, must be practiced with all its institutions and rules in social and political relations.
All institutions and rules of democracy will be implemented
Our Constitution is based on freedom rather than on general limitation provisions,
We envisage its renewal with as broad a consensus as possible in order to make it a true "Social Contract Document" that includes general protection provisions.
Constitution as a social contract document
The protection and development of the inviolable, inalienable and inalienable fundamental rights and freedoms of human beings, especially the right to life, is one of the primary duties of the State, and the recognition of these rights and freedoms is the basis of justice and peace.
Protection and development of fundamental rights and freedoms
Our Party, which regards the human being as a supreme being, is strongly opposed to all forms of torture, inhuman and degrading behaviors and practices, and
believes that the security and life of every individual must be ensured.
Guaranteeing human life
Legal provisions will be strengthened to support the fight against torture and training of practitioners on human rights issues will be intensified
. Anti-torture and human rights
Administrative and legal obstacles that undermine the right to freedom of association, assembly and demonstration will be reviewed and the exercise of these rights in accordance with their essence will be ensured, provided that they are not contrary to the fundamental characteristics of the Republic.
Right to freedom of association, assembly and demonstration
All forms of de facto and de jure discrimination against women will be abolished, and
children will be protected against all violations of their rights, including from their families.
Protection of Women and Children In
accordance with the principle of equality before the law and the open judicial remedy against all actions and transactions of the administration,
everyone will have the right to information and the freedom to seek rights.
Freedom to seek rights for all In addition to
legal arrangements to ensure that the media, which is an indispensable element of democracy, acts in accordance with moral principles and standards, it will be ensured that the media attaches importance to self-regulation.
Media responsibility
Each political party will be given the right to determine its organizational structure and functioning, provided that it remains within the framework of the fundamental principles enshrined in the Constitution.
Right for parties to determine organizational structure
In cases of violation of mandatory provisions other than the prohibitions listed in the Constitution as grounds for the dissolution of a political party, arrangements will be made to impose sanctions other than dissolution, such as suspension from activity for a certain period of time, exclusion from certain elections or elections, deprivation of treasury aid, etc., depending on the nature and gravity of the act, instead of the system of denunciatory dissolution in the current regulation.
Non-closure sanctions on political parties
Political party membership will be secured with strong guarantees.
In the elections of the party's lower level organs, members registered at least three months before the congress date will be allowed to vote, and arbitrary registration and deletion of members by party administrations will be prevented.
Party membership will be guaranteed The
right to become a member of political parties will be introduced for public servants other than those carrying out certain special duties.
Party membership for public officials
Parliamentary and local elections will be held every four years.
Elections will be held every four years
The age of eligibility for parliamentary election will be lowered to 25.
Election age
Legal and administrative arrangements will be made to enable Turkish citizens living abroad to vote in parliamentary elections.
Citizens abroad can vote
At least 10 percent of state aid to parties will be obliged to be used for research and development expenditures.
Parties will be directed to ER-Ge
The upper limit for donations to political parties will be raised, but donations above a certain amount will be made public.
Transparency in donations to parties The
chairpersons and members of the central, provincial and district organizations of political parties will be included in the scope of asset declaration.
Property declaration of party officials
Legislation will be enacted to ensure public disclosure of pre- and post-incumbency asset declarations of MPs, mayors and senior public officials.
It will be
ensured that the Constitutional Court's reports on the audits to be conducted on political parties through the Court of Accounts, budget and final account reports, and election expenditures of parties and candidates will be made public.
Transparency in party accounts and election expenditures
Effective legal arrangements will be made to prevent parliamentarians from taking other positions.
Parliamentarians will be
It will be ensured that MPs will be prosecuted like other citizens if they commit crimes for any reason whatsoever outside of their legislative activities.
Parliamentary immunity will be limited and a
constitutional amendment will be introduced to allow for the judicial investigation of corruption allegations against the Prime Minister and ministers by the Chief Public Prosecutor's Office of the Supreme Court of Appeals.
It will be ensured that the duty of the Supreme Court will be fulfilled by a board consisting of the Presidents of the Criminal Chambers of the Court of Cassation.
Judicial investigation into allegations against ministers
XII - FOREIGN POLICY
1. Factors Shaping Our Foreign Policy Strategy
As a part of the human family, our country, in the new century, has to live in the Eurasian geopolitics, which is expressed as a strategic and challenging triangle covering the Balkans, the Caucasus and the Middle East regions with their painful historical pasts and today's problematic structures, which are once again the center of attention of international strategies.
Our country is in a region that is once again the center of attention of international strategies
In addition to having a long-standing state tradition and a modem political regime, Turkey has a privileged geo-economic and geo-political position in its region.
Located on the production-market routes of resources such as oil, water and natural gas, which will continue to be strategic raw materials in the foreseeable future, Turkey is a natural bridge between the "East", the producer of these resources, and the "West", the consumer.
Our country is on the production-market routes of strategic raw materials such as oil, water and natural gas.
Our historical, religious and humanitarian characteristics also give us a unique place on the world map of meaning.
This human quality is complemented by the fact that we are located in a magnificent spot that hosts the meeting of civilizations, cultures and religions.
This situation, on the one hand, weighs heavily on the burden and responsibilities of the Turkish State, but on the other hand, it points to significant opportunities, privileges and a great future.
The region we live in and our human qualities point to a great future for our country.
As the heir to a great empire, a significant part of the problems Turkey faces are the result of its historical past and its position at the center of a challenging geography with a high potential for crisis and conflict.
The historical animosities against Turkey, the problems that have been carried over from the past to the present and the dynamics of the region in which Turkey is located in the center, make it necessary for Turkey to pursue a multifaceted, dynamic and realistic foreign policy.
A significant part of our problems are the result of our location in a problematic geography with a high potential for crisis and conflict
On the other hand, the new balances in our world of rapid developments and the problems and developments arising from globalization have led to increasing interdependence between countries and shaping international relations around new developments and values.
In this environment, pursuing a multifaceted foreign policy and opening up to the outside world in every field while preserving Turkey's national identity and culture has gained special importance.
International relations are shaped around new developments and values
It is the strategic goal of the Nationalist Movement Party to prepare all the necessary conditions for our country to become a strong "Leader Country" in the 21st century, which guarantees peace and stability in its region and has a voice and reputation in international relations.
Turkey's national interests are protected and developed in every field
and peace, friendship and
an effective foreign policy approach targeting cooperation,
It constitutes a very important dimension of the MHP's vision of "Leading Country Turkey".
Become a "Leading Country" that guarantees peace and stability in its region and has a voice and reputation in international relations
Turkey's sensitive geopolitical position; its historical experience; the common history and cultural values we share with the countries in the Caucasus, Central Asia, the Balkans and the Middle East; and the vision it has developed around common values with the West over the course of history are very important elements that enable Turkey to pursue a multifaceted and effective foreign policy.
It is of great importance to make the best use of these opportunities.
A multifaceted and effective foreign policy will be pursued
2. Main Objectives of Foreign Policy
Our party's main goals in foreign policy;
Creating a belt of peace, stability and security around Turkey;
to find fair and lasting solutions to existing problems with its neighbors in line with Turkey's interests and in accordance with international law,
Creating a belt of peace, stability and security around us
To develop our relations and cooperation with all countries, especially our neighbors and countries in the region, on the basis of equality, mutual respect and mutual benefit,
Relationship based on equality, mutual respect and mutual benefit
To play an active role in solving regional and international problems affecting Turkey and to make concrete contributions to this end,
Concrete contribution to solving problems
Turkey becoming a model country that is respected and trusted in its region, the Turkic World and the Islamic World;
economic
and to ensure that it gains the position of a cultural center,
To be a model country for the Turkic world and the Islamic world
To add a strategic economic dimension to Turkey's strategic geographical position;
to be a global bridge and corridor in the fields of air, sea and land transportation and communication on the East-West and North-South axes;
In this framework, to ensure that the Central-Asian and Caspian basin energy resources are positioned as an energy bridge and terminal for transportation to foreign markets,
To be an energy bridge and terminal for the transportation of Central Asian oil and natural gas to foreign markets
To ensure that our citizens abroad enjoy all rights and freedoms and opportunities without being subjected to discrimination in the countries where they live; to resolutely protect and defend the rights and freedoms of our citizens,
Protecting the law of citizens abroad
To prepare the conditions that will enable the cognates and kin communities outside Turkey to live in peace, tranquility and prosperity in their countries of origin and to develop their national culture and identity freely.
Peace and welfare of our compatriots outside Turkey
3. Conduct of Foreign Policy
It is important that a strong institutional structure necessary for the effective and decisive implementation of the foreign policy strategy in line with the main objectives is reshaped based on this understanding.
To this end, necessary arrangements will be made rapidly to restructure the institutions responsible for determining and implementing foreign policy principles, particularly the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and TIKA, and technical assistance organizations, and to establish new principles for inter-agency coordination and cooperation.
In order to implement our foreign policy strategy in line with the main objectives, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and TİK A will be restructured. The
establishment and development of research and investigation institutions that will operate on international issues related to foreign policy will be encouraged and supported.
Necessary theoretical and practical arrangements will be put in place for these theories to actively contribute to political decision-making mechanisms and processes in foreign policy.
Research and analysis institutions will be established for foreign policy
4. Relations with the Turkic World
Cyprus, the Caucasus, the Central-Asian Turkic Republics and the Balkans have always had a privileged place and importance in our foreign policy.
Likewise, our cognates and Turkmen brothers and sisters living in these regions and in the Middle East are among the issues to which we pay special attention and sensitivity
The Turkic world has a priority place and importance in our foreign policy
Cyprus is a national cause of vital importance for Turkey.
MHP believes that a just and lasting solution to the Cyprus problem can only be found on the basis of political equality and a new partnership between the two sovereign peoples and states on the island.
It is also of great importance that the solution to be found does not negatively affect Turkey's effective and de facto guarantee.
A just and lasting solution for Cyprus
Under the current circumstances, the biggest obstacle to a political settlement is the approach of the European Union and the uncompromising attitude of the Greek Cypriot side in the expectation that Cyprus will become a member of the EU anyway.
Cyprus' EU membership can only be envisaged within the framework of and as part of a comprehensive political settlement.
It is also indispensable to preserve the balance between Turkey and Greece in all its elements.
The obstacle to a political solution is the EU's approach and the intransigent attitude of the Greek Cypriot side.
Turkey will continue to support the honorable struggle of the Turkish People and Republic of Northern Cyprus, which has been waged with great patience and renunciation for many years, under all circumstances.
The forced admission of Cyprus to the EU before a political settlement would have very serious consequences.
Turkey cannot be expected to remain silent in the face of such coercion.
Likewise, Turkey will under no circumstances sacrifice the Turkish Cypriot people and its independent state, the TRNC, for the apparent preservation of its EU membership perspective
The forced admission of Cyprus to the EU would have very serious consequences
After the collapse of the Soviet Union, the fact that the new republics in the Caucasus and Central Asia, with which we share a unity of language, culture, ethnicity and history, have taken their rightful place on the stage of history as independent states, has made the reality of the Turkic world a very important element in world balances.
The reality of the Turkic world has emerged as a very important element in world balances
Maintaining peace and stability in this region,
further strengthening our relations with the countries of the region in all areas and elevating them to the level of strategic partnership,
consolidating the sovereignty and independence of these countries,
the protection of their territorial integrity,
Increasing economic and social welfare levels,
democracy
and to provide them with all possible support for the successful completion of their transition to a market economy in all aspects, are Turkey's prioritized foreign policy objectives.
Providing all kinds of support to the Turkic world is one of Turkey's prioritized foreign policy objectives.
It is not possible to say that the work carried out in these areas to date is at a sufficient level.
There are a number of reasons for this.
In this respect, it is important that our foreign policy towards the countries of the region is based on a new strategic foundation with well-defined principles and objectives, and that it is consistently implemented within the framework of an action plan.
Relations with the Turkic world will be established on a new strategic basis and an action plan will be determined and implemented
In this framework, our main objective is to develop our relations with the Turkic Republics on the basis of sovereign equality, common interest and mutual benefit in all fields and to give strategic depth to the relations.
In this regard, no sacrifice will be spared to the extent of our means.
Strategic depth will be added to our relations with the Turkic world
There is a clear need for a new institutional structure to ensure the effectiveness and coordination of the multifaceted work to be carried out in these areas and the activities of public, private and voluntary organizations in Turkey towards the region.
For this purpose, it is among the prioritized goals of the MHP to carry out the Turkic World-Eurasian Cooperation policies under the new "Ministry of Turkic World".
Ministry of Turkic World
Close cooperation will be ensured with the Independent Turkic Republics and Turkic communities in the energy sector as well as in other sectors, national energy agencies based on mutual interest relations and a "Turkic World Energy Council" will be established between our countries.
Turkic World Energy Council to be established
The Center for Scientific and Technological Cooperation of the Turkic World will be supported in all aspects and its effective operation will be ensured.
Thus, our historical, cultural and economic relations with the Turkic world will be developed in the field of science and technology, and a Turkic World Science and Technology Database will be established.
Turkic world science and technology database will be established
5. Relations with the European Union
The MHP supports Turkey's membership of the European Union as one of its main political goals.
Turkey will become a member of the European Union at the end of an honorable and fair process.
It is an indispensable political responsibility and a requirement of partnership ethics for the EU to show the necessary care and sensitivity for our country to become a member.
Turkey will become a member of the European Union at the end of an honorable and equitable process. In
this respect, it is of great importance to abandon discriminatory approaches and prejudiced assessments that seek to portray Turkey as a "handicapped candidate country" and render its equal status with other candidates meaningless in practice.
Only on such a basis can an honorable and realistic negotiation process aiming at the conclusion of Association relations with full membership be pursued.
Approaches that seek to portray Turkey as a "handicapped candidate" should be abandoned.
Turkey will become a member of the European Union with its religious and cultural identity, while preserving its national and spiritual values.
It is a fundamental obligation to demonstrate in practice that the EU does not have a political philosophy based on discrimination on the basis of religious and cultural differences, and to avoid behaviors that could lead to justified doubts in this regard.
Turkey will be a member of the European Union with its national, religious and cultural identity.
Likewise, Turkey's EU membership will be finalized by protecting our legitimate interests and our rights under international law and treaties on vital issues such as Cyprus and the Aegean.
Our rights on Cyprus and the Aegean The
fundamental question here lies in whether the European Union sees Turkey as part of Europe's common future.
Because it is also vital that European public opinion and the EU leadership stand in solidarity with the Turkish community and are ready for Turkey's accession.
If the European Union adopts such an approach, Turkey will take its rightful place as a European Union country in the common "House of Europe".
As a European Union country, Turkey will take its rightful place in the common "House of Europe"
6. Foreign Policy
Opportunities Ahead for Turkey
In the light of the new dynamics dominating international relations, Turkey should define a comprehensive strategy and develop a new strategic perspective to pursue a multifaceted and multidimensional foreign policy.
The main foreign policy objectives within this framework should be the following: The transformation of our relations with the United States into a truly strong strategic partnership in areas where we have a common interest, and the politicalization of strategic relations for this purpose,
security and defense dimensions
efforts should be made to complement it with an economic dimension.
In this framework, it is important to raise our economic and trade relations to the level required by the strategic alliance between our two countries.
Develop a new strategic perspective
Relations with the United States will be transformed into a strong strategic partnership in areas of mutual interest
Improving our relations with Japan, the Russian Federation and the People's Republic of China in all areas has an important place among our priorities.
Relations with Japan, Russia and China will be improved.
It would be appropriate to establish close relations with the Balkan and Middle Eastern countries aiming at peace, stability and regional cooperation and to consider the possibilities of developing joint projects in the economic field with a rational and long-term approach.
Regional cooperation with Balkan and Middle Eastern countries
Initiatives will be taken to establish the "Eastern Mediterranean Union", which will include Turkey, Jordan, Israel, Egypt, Syria, Saudi Arabia, Lebanon and Palestine.
Eastern Mediterranean Union will be established
In order to maximize economic relations and cooperation between the Caucasus and Central Asian Turkic Republics, Turkey's eastern and southern neighbors, and the countries of the Eastern Mediterranean and Gulf basin, an expanded "Eurasian Union" project will be realized.
Eurasian Union Project will be realized
XIII - NATIONAL SECURITY AND THE FIGHT AGAINST TERRORISM
A strong and adequate defense system
Turkey's geostrategic position, its obligations arising from its historical and cultural heritage, and its contribution to regional and world peace make it essential to establish and maintain a strong and adequate defense system.
The fight against terrorism will continue with rule of law methods
We reject the understanding that adopts terrorism and violence as a method and considers them legitimate to achieve its goal, regardless of the thought and purpose.
During the fight against terrorism, the basic rule is to distinguish the right from the wrong, the guilty from the innocent, and to continue the fight with the methods of the rule of law in a decisive manner.
The fight against terrorism cannot be neglected under any circumstances
Terror and anarchy, security of life and property of our people,
our national unity,
our democracy
and recognizes it as one of the greatest threats to our economic development,
It considers the fight against terrorism as a national policy that should not be neglected under any circumstances.
The fight against terrorism cannot be neglected under any circumstances
Ensuring peace and security in society,
that public authority is felt in every corner of the country and without discrimination between individuals;
the state to use its legal authority in a caring and compassionate manner
and the establishment of an environment that will ensure that citizens feel safe in every aspect of their lives constitutes the basis of our understanding of security.
A security approach that will make citizens feel safe
In order to ensure that the Turkish Armed Forces can fulfill its mission successfully and in accordance with the conditions of the age, a military modernization program will be initiated and it will be ensured that it will be raised to the level of the most advanced armies of the world in terms of weapons and equipment.
Military modernization program to be launched
The mobility of the Turkish Armed Forces will be increased by expanding the employment of personnel specialized and expert in the use of advanced technology.
Employment of specialized personnel will become widespread
The psychological and sociological causes of terrorist acts, which are one of the biggest obstacles to Turkey's economic and democratic development, will be correctly diagnosed and the fight against terrorism will be conducted in parallel.
The fight against terrorism
A country like Turkey, which aims to develop rapidly and take an active place in the world community of nations as a global power in economic, political and social spheres, is obliged to find alternative solutions to its problems.
For this purpose, a "Strategic Research Institution" will be established at a high level and composed of experts in their fields.
Strategic Research Institution to be established
By redefining the authorities and responsibilities of the institutions operating in the field of internal security, the service will be provided in harmony and will be made to operate with modern methods.
New structure for internal security
Strengthening the intelligence network
Since the counter-terrorism policy has a decisive, continuous, systematic and multi-dimensional character, technological developments will be utilized and the intelligence network will be strengthened
Political support for the fight against terrorism
The necessary political support will be given decisively to the security forces and the judiciary in the fight against terrorism and illegal elements.
Traffic terrorism will be prevented
In order to prevent traffic terrorism, which causes great loss of life and property, it will be ensured that highways will be brought up to international standards, vehicle safety and standards will be ensured, training activities on the prevention of driver errors will be made widespread, traffic inspections and penalties will be made more effective and the self-control system will be improved.
