Home and World Events
M.H.P.
Nationalist Movement Party
1969 ELECTION NOTICE
October 12, 1969 parliamentary elections will be an important day in the life and destiny of our Nation and State.
You are in a day of great decision and judgment!
Prosperity to our beloved homeland with peace and accuracy in its will, decision and vote,
can bring happiness and peace.
We wish that God will help you in the moment of decision and that the outcome will be auspicious for our great nation and our beloved homeland.
HOMETOWN EVENTS
A review of the developments that took place during the four years of the Justice Party's rule reveals serious signs that threaten the future of the Turkish nation.
Since the Justice Party's loyalty to its program and statements before the nation was very lax, the events should be evaluated by taking into account the government's actions rather than its statements.
In the 1965 elections, our nation brought the Justice Party to power.
It is possible to list the factors that led to this result as follows.
1 - The fact that, within a period of time after its foundation, the AP developed towards an identity in line with the basic feelings and thoughts of the Turkish Nation in an atmosphere favorable to democratic order.
2 - Especially until the 1964 congress, the party leaders courageously resisted all kinds of pressure, rape and threats,
their insistence and determination to respect the nation's sense of justice and order, their respect for democratic procedures within the party, and their unifying nature.
3 - The emergence of the need for the majority of the nation to gather in one place against a political force that brought the tyranny of ideas and actions to power as a rival to the May 27 movement, which was distracted from its goal.
GREAT AND CHERISHED TURKISH NATION
Unfortunately, AP could not take advantage of this favorable situation, which was a blessing for every government until a certain period.
The incompetence and desperation of the government in this regard can be seen in the important developments of the last four years.
The preparation and implementation of the plans, which are considered as the basic documents of economic development, were far from reflecting the view advocated by the AP.
The AP government implemented the 1st Five Year Plan, which had been prepared by the artificial government of the CHP, with full loyalty.
The Second Five-Year Plan was a bold continuation of the first plan.
The measures to encourage private enterprise taken in this plan have also shown serious tendencies to increase profiteering.
Although there are more serious procedures to be used in the preparation and implementation of plans, the ruling party, which does not have the time to pay attention to them because it is overwhelmed by daily politics, has been far from many achievable goals.
The initial, well-defined objectives of reducing the share of agriculture in national income in favor of industry and keeping other sectors stable have not been achieved.
While the share of agriculture in national income decreased by 6% in this period,
the share of industry could only be increased by 3%, and the
increase in sectors such as services, housing construction, transportation, etc. could not be prevented.
Changes in the overall value of the economy have also been unsatisfactory due to laxity in the plan and especially in its implementation.
While private consumption expenditures increased by 4%,
government expenditures rose by around 10%.
When expensive state expenditures were added to the already high level of private consumption, investments did not reach the desired level and remained around 16% at constant prices.
It is obvious that this level of investment will not provide the desired growth rate in national income.
A.P. IN THE HANDS OF VESTED INTERESTS
The deficits in the balance of payments continue to worsen.
Expensive monetary policy, which favors trade rather than industry, feeds these deficits a little more every day.
Non-national capital and its shareholders benefit from the bureaucratic wheel of state finance, which is getting heavier and heavier every day, while national capital remains unclaimed and idle.
The government publicly and outrageously interfered with the Union of Chambers, the true representative of private enterprise, and became a loyal supporter of non-national capital.
The Turkish economy is already threatened by the dangerous developments that this policy will create.
Let us take a brief look at the political reality underlying all these developments: AP, which was prepared for power by an idealist cadre, fell into the hands of opportunism as soon as it came to power.
Thus, individual, family and group interests began to dominate political choices.
Foreign elements, who know how to easily infiltrate such circles, have begun to gather their agents around the ever more centralized authority of the government, without even bothering to observe the secrecy they had previously respected.
The goal of this activity: To dissolve or neutralize the cadre within the party that represents the true feelings and ideas of the Turkish nation.
In the 1969 elections, if the AP comes to power with its current administrative staff, it will have achieved this negative goal.
It can be easily assumed that an AP that will remain in power as it was in 1964 will be able to render serious service to Turkish democracy.
Today's ruling party has lost the merit of such a hypothetical.
The recent unfortunate developments in our political scene have shown that the AP will easily surrender to the suggestions coming from the circles that it presents as a decisive pressure factor or that actually exist.
In such a conjuncture, the chances of democratic order to survive are extremely doubtful.
There can be no talk of democracy when the idea that the constitution cannot be changed by the procedures laid down in the constitution is registered as an unquestionable axiom.
To do otherwise would mean that the wound would bleed.
This is why the AP seems to cling to the development slogans of the 1950-60 period.
It is an obvious fact that a party that has spent the chance of becoming the people's power so generously in such a short time, even if it retains power, will be deprived of the air of security and no one will be able to eat it.
The artificial efforts of the government in the electoral platform can only be attributed to an effort to sustain economic and, to some extent, political interests that are under the control of non-national forces.
The incompetence of the government in this field and the slipperiness that arises from this incompetence is not without reason.
In fact, this problem is general.
Today, science and technology, the work of western civilization, are developing rapidly and creating turmoil in western thought.
The worldview that feeds the ethical and belief system of the West is being shaken, and the possibilities of ensuring human happiness with the established values of Western civilization are shrinking.
As such, one would expect the shaking to be more severe in societies that aspire to western civilization, and it is.
Whether they are the heirs of an ancient civilization or have only a primitive culture, lack of knowledge is the hallmark of backward societies.
The survival of the changes that will take place in the standards of living as well as in the value judgments of societies depends on knowing the resources that those societies possess and correctly orienting towards the development that these resources can provide.
Such an outcome can only be achieved by governments guided by the light emanating from the University, the main center of science.
Despite all the efforts made in our country for years, we have not been able to find such a university and such a government.
The nation/majority can only follow the measures of Turkish-Islamic civilization,
with its family structure.
These values have been passed down through each link in the family chain.
There is not enough work on uncovering the pure forms of values.
Existing study results are also not sufficiently disseminated.
On the other hand, an intelligentsia has emerged that has been indoctrinated by an education system that imports the values of western civilization in the form of shallow patterns.
The false values they cling to and the institutionalized interests created by the privilege of being employed by the state have become institutionalized as an element of oppression.
Despite all its privileges and majesty, this element of pressure is not effective.
On the other hand, the nation's demand for the means of civilization that lead to economic prosperity and its strict adherence to the measures of the culture and civilization it inherited, albeit in the form of distorted motifs, constituted a second element of pressure.
The part of the AP cadre that was committed to these values in the beginning lost its effectiveness in power and was replaced by an insincere group.
For this reason, it was not possible for the government to create an education system and a science policy in line with the world view of the nation.
It is necessary to conclude that further developments will follow the opposite direction.
Our opposition to the current government is based on this fact.
THE MAIN REASON THAT GAVE BIRTH TO THE NATIONALIST MOVEMENT WAS THE ABSENCE OF A NATIONAL CULTURAL POLICY.
WORLD EVENTS
Since the 1965 elections, the realization that our world is changing times has become more widespread than ever before.
man's landing on the moon is a serious sign not only of the great strides made in science and technology, but also of the vast horizons opening up before human power.
We consider the victory of those who believe in God and in the supremacy of human dignity as a reliable guarantee for the prosperity and well-being of humanity in this final stage of the Feza competition.
Some of the events on the world political scene have been promising for the future of humanity, while others have been disappointing.
The rivalry between political blocs persists despite all attempts at détente.
The possession by both sides of weapons capable of destroying one or even both of them seems to make the possibility of total war less and less likely, while the possibilities and capabilities of positional warfare are increasing.
The Middle East crisis is a typical example of the emergence of these potentials for positional warfare.
Despite all good intentions, the constructive and conciliatory power of the United Nations Organization has failed to prevail against tyranny.
The fact that the structure of the organization was very susceptible to diplomatic manipulation and the insincerity of the states leading the blocs played a major role in this.
The changes of power in the free world bloc seem to have increased efforts to soften inter-bloc relations rather than new developments to tighten intra-bloc relations.
It can be said that the idea of integration in Europe has made some progress, albeit not significant.
The fact that ideological conflicts within the Iron Curtain led to territorial disputes between Soviet Russia and continental China is a case worthy of study.
The dispute over territories that do not belong to any of the parties has shown that communist ideology, despite all its claims of internationalism, is subject to the reality of nationalism.
The important aspect of the incident for the free world and especially for Turkey is that these lands belonged to captive Turks.
We note with concern for the future of humanity that the free world has remained quite indifferent to the clash of the inhuman imperialist ambitions of Slavic and yellow race chauvinism on the lands of captive nations.
The world economic conjuncture has seen some fluctuations due to inter-currency competition.
In the aftermath of these events between developed and saturated economies, the pound sterling and the franc have been able to rehabilitate with the help of the mark and the dollar, despite some tendencies that are likely to persist for years to come.
The widening gap between underdeveloped economies and developed ones continued in this period.
It cannot be said that international measures to ensure that negotiations between the haves and the have-nots take place in favor of the more distressed and with a better understanding of them are functioning properly.
In order to promote and protect the ideal of liberty from an economic point of view, NATO, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, the European Economic Community, the Bank for Settlements, the European Parliamentary Union, etc. should give more weight to long-term and permanent measures.
We would like to assume that the events in Czechoslovakia have taught serious lessons to the free world.
We are convinced that NATO's general strategy, which is based on the assumption of detente between the blocs and expressed in the form of flexible response and intervention, needs to be seriously revised and that behind the frontline economic and political structure relations should be tightened.
OUR BASIC BELIEFS
1 - For us, the unity, integrity, happiness and prosperity of Turkey and the Turkish Nation are above all considerations.
We are against all kinds of behavior that divides, separates and sows discord in society.
The history of Turkey and the Turkish homeland is the common work of our ancestors and all of us.
We will protect it together, with thoughts of peace and brotherhood.
2 - The security of the democratic regime is among our most important issues.
If the regime is shaken, we will all go down together.
He will work for the perfection of the regime.
We will protect freedoms and demand the rule of law and the Constitution.
3 - For economic prosperity and social peace "Legal, political,
economic and social justice".
The reorganization of the state and the nation is necessary in order to quickly rescue Turkey from its backward economic structure, from the vices of poverty and impossibility, and we will realize this.
4 - We will establish not a state of restraint, but a state of service and welfare that smiles and makes people smile.
Today's state organization, which operates at great expense, oppresses its officials, wearies the people, and has become an instrument of oppression, will be organized through administrative reforms.
We will ensure the fusion of the people and the state, and that the services of the administration reach the people adequately, easily, quickly and without burden.
We will ensure the absolute impartiality of the administration in public service against political influences and preferences.
5 - The state cannot be a bystander, indifferent to the nutritional conditions and impossibilities of the people.
It will be the duty of the state to examine and correct the nutritional conditions and food regime of the entire Turkish nation.
A food and nutrition regime and standard will be established for the whole nation, taking into account regional and climatic conditions.
It will increase the production of foodstuffs and agricultural products all over the country,
Measures will be taken to improve their quality.
The state, which has a duty to find jobs, open up workplaces and provide livelihoods for all,
will prevent the food regime of the citizen from falling below the established standards.
High levels of production and consumption of meat, fat, milk, vegetables, fruit and vegetables is a preliminary goal that we value highly.
In our term of service. Turkey will cease to be a country of hungry freemen and full captives.
Meat, fat, sugar, fruits and vegetables will no longer be luxury foods, but will enter every home.
6 - It is our constant aim to ensure that every family in the village and in the city has a beautiful, sound, healthy home.
We will build new neighborhoods, towns, cities, modern cities and villages with brand new dwellings, block apartment buildings with gardens.
As families are resettled in new dwellings, we will liquidate slum squalor, shacks and caves.
7 - People's health cannot be traded.
We will put health services, medicine and pharmacy at the service of our nation.
It will be the duty of the state to provide free health care, treatment and medicines to the entire population.
We will ensure adequate and balanced distribution of health services throughout the country.
We will seriously develop the fight against diseases and preventive medicine.
8 - We will insure all citizens through a state insurance institution under the Ministry of Social Affairs.
We will ensure that every citizen, women over 55 years of age and men over 65 years of age, in short, every citizen will have the right to a pension.
9 - We will reorganize the National Education service throughout the country.
Through educational reform and mobilization, we will provide every citizen with the highest educational and training opportunities appropriate to his or her abilities.
We will swiftly correct the injustice in the utilization of education services.
We will reorganize education and training in accordance with national development plans and objectives.
10 - In order to ensure Turkey's rapid development, it is our duty to utilize and mobilize the labor force.
11 - Agriculture,
soil
and industrial reform are among our fundamental efforts.
12 - Among citizens, blessings and burdens should be distributed fairly on the basis of ability, knowledge, work and merit.
13 - Every citizen must enjoy the benefits of the regime and the social order in equality of opportunity.
Favoritism and bribery must be eradicated.
14 - We will revive the economic and social facilities that have examples in our history and establish modern cooperation facilities among citizens.
15 - We will protect and develop the middle class, the backbone of Turkish society.
16 - Peasants and peasants, who constitute the majority of our population
We will address the fundamental issues of working people with realistic and social methods.
17 - The labor of workers will be evaluated according to Turkey's economic and social realities and goals.
18 - We will fully secure legitimate and national-interest capital against communism, which exploits social currents.
19 - We will protect and support the art life and artists in order to make Turkish art strong, active and useful in the development of Turkish society.
20 - We will protect, develop and raise the spiritual and moral values of Turkish society.
21 - We will utilize Turkish oil and minerals for the benefit of the Turkish Nation.
22 - The MHP recognizes that every Turk has an important place and duty in Turkey and Turkey has an important place and duty in the world.
In the light of this principle, we are in favor of the peaceful settlement of conflicts all over the world.
23 - In the face of attitudes and behaviors that may disturb the honor and dignity of Turkey's place, an energetic and decisive intervention required by the LAW OF STATES must be resorted to with a personal and national foreign policy.
We have the same decision and will on Cyprus.
Our negotiations for a prosperous and strong turkey are our goal and objective
Our goal is to promote human rights and freedoms in Turkey.
well-being of the individual and society
and peace of mind,
To rapidly establish a state order and administration, with all its institutions, that will realize and guarantee social security.
Our Party is committed to the ideal of a national state and freedom,
nationality,
morality,
Science,
socialism
Development,
populism
peasantry
and sincerely believes in the principles of industrialization.
EDUCATION AND YOUTH
The aim of national education is the development of ideas, character, art, body and spirit.
This basic education is essential for sound decision-making.
The national character of education is the foundation of our ideal.
Achieving unity of feeling and thought,
establishing and ensuring unity of ideals and culture
are the prerequisites for making further strides.
To get rid of the disgrace of backwardness,
to create a future worthy of our past,
The attainment of social and economic goals can only be achieved through science, wisdom and knowledge,
morality
and a cadre of intellectuals who embrace the consciousness of order.
The goal of national education should not be to raise a cadre of intellectuals who are consumptive, but rather to raise generations of idealists who are capable of being productive, who are forward-thinking and have a sense of sacrifice and renunciation.
One of the main goals of national education should be to train scholars at a high level.
The mobilization for work and competition can begin and be carried out with a cadre with these high qualities, who know national realities and have adopted the national spirit and consciousness.
This is one of the main goals of the Nationalist Movement.
Today our national education community is in a state of anarchy and our education system is not characterized by national character.
A materialistic education system has corrupted the spirit of generations and created gaps between generations.
The strife and bickering among teachers is heartbreaking.
The relations between administration and teachers, teachers and students are shameful.
Respect is gone and feelings of compassion are shaken.
It is absolutely necessary to think of a remedy for this situation.
This situation in secondary education has materialized in higher education and universities have become hotbeds of anarchy.
To remedy this situation,
to raise patriotic youth,
to believe in the guidance of knowledge,
To prepare for further steps forward in the unity of ideals and culture,
Our main goal is to prepare an army of intellectuals equipped with a sense of sacrifice and renunciation.
To free schools from the need for equipment and supplies,
prevent major crises that may arise in the future, it is necessary to transfer a large part of the youth to the technical field.
Our century is a century in which those who work and compete have the right to live.
Therefore, it is necessary to take all necessary measures and, above all, to solve the problem of education.
It is a shame that while people are going to the moon, we remain on foot.
We have to close the distance between us and the modern states, and the only way to do this is to deal with national education and training by taking into account national realities.
The first of our fundamental reforms is the reform of national education and solving this problem is a prerequisite for all other reforms.
We want young generations raised with a national upbringing and the ideal of a Greater Turkey to assume the honorable responsibility of rebuilding Turkey and to take up positions of service.
Our Party considers it necessary to educate the youth in this sense.
OUR UNDERSTANDING OF JUSTICE AND AMNESTY
MHP justice is political,
economic,
social
as an indivisible ideal in all its legal and juridical aspects.
It recognizes it as an unshakable and unshakeable will to give everyone his or her due.
For the MHP, truth is not only a moral goal, an element of faith, but also a practical, practical result to be realized.
We believe in right and justice
and we consider justice as the foundation of property.
MHP calls for a general amnesty to restore peace in the country,
It considers it essential and a condition for internal peace that our citizens who have been convicted should be reintegrated into society.
OUR VIEW OF RELIGION
The MHP considers freedom of religion and conscience as an inseparable root of human freedoms.
We are against religion, religious feelings and religiously sacred objects being despised and attacked.
We consider it essential that the spiritual foundations are considered together with the material foundations.
In this respect, we aspire to an ethical system based on love, respect and duty.
we believe that man is a moral being.
We want this spirit to prevail in society, in political life, in all institutions of service and education.
Therefore, we will ensure that religious education institutions serve at a level and quality appropriate to the needs.
We will ensure that our clergy are trained in modern science and have the material means to perform their duties comfortably.
Faculty of Theology. We will develop the Higher Islamic Institute.
We see Imam-Hatip schools as vocational high schools, and our aim is to expand them.
We will also employ graduates as teachers in schools.
At the same time, we will abolish the records that prevent graduates of such vocational high schools from attending universities and colleges.
We will ensure that religion and ethics classes are included in all grades in primary and secondary education and taught by qualified teachers.
NATIONALISM
We recognize Turkish nationalism as the ideal of love, loyalty and service to the Turkish nation, culture and state.
In this respect, we are determined to support and develop all nationalist associations.
We see the revival of national ideals and national culture as the greatest challenge to be addressed.
We consider the welfare and happiness of the Turkish Nation above the interests of individuals, groups, classes and parties.
FAMILY
Our party, which considers family unity as a high spiritual value and the foundation of the Turkish Nation, will take measures to protect and strengthen this unity.
It will promote women's rights and recognize her as a person and a saint in Turkish society, far from imitation.
MHP will prioritize the service owed by the state and the nation to children who grow up without compassion, care and education due to the poverty of their families and the inadequacies and impossibilities of their environment.
It will establish the necessary organizations for the protection of orphans, orphans and poor children.
Our party is opposed to state-mandated birth control and will work to provide adequate assistance to families with many children.
SOCIAL JUSTICE
We believe that all citizens should share in the national income according to the principles of social justice, in proportion to their labor, enterprise, ability, effort, service and achievements.
We consider it a matter of social justice to give priority to the development of backward regions of the country.
We will organize tax, investment and expenditure policy according to the principles of social justice.
PRIVATE ENTITLEMENT
We believe in the necessity of protecting, developing and supporting the spirit of initiative and creativity in the national economy.
LABOR AND WORKER ISSUES
UNEMPLOYMENT
Today, there is a huge unemployment problem that even the government acknowledges.
In the 1969 program of the Second Five-Year Plan period, an estimated 13,395,000 people are reported to be employed.
Of these, 9,251,000 are active in the agricultural sector.
There are also around 6 million hidden unemployed in the agricultural sector.
In addition to this gravity in the agricultural sector, the total number of workers in non-agricultural industry, construction, trade, transportation and services is 4,144,000.
Only 1,585,000 people work in the industrial sector.
Since the sectors that create the most employment are non-agricultural areas and the industrial sector in particular, there is a need to work quickly and cost-effectively in this direction.
It is obvious that the industrial sector must find jobs for the unemployed and even attract them to its structure in order to compensate for the hidden unemployment in the agricultural sector.
Unemployment in Turkey can only be compensated in this way.
It is clear that relying on foreign countries will not yield the right results.
Therefore, the non-agricultural sectors, and especially the industrial sector, should be programmed in such a way as to take into account the unemployment that will occur if traditional business methods are abandoned in order to increase productivity in the agricultural sector through the application of modern business methods.
According to the current plan, the growth rate of the non-agricultural sectors, which create the most employment, is not at a level that will solve the problem.
FEES
The very low level of individual national product in Turkey, at 3,300 TL, cannot be attributed solely to unemployment or hidden unemployment.
Almost all of our workers and civil servants work for very low wages.
The hardworking Turkish worker is struggling to make ends meet with wages that do not increase in line with rising prices.
This situation demoralizes our employees, weakens their belief in joint work, and erodes their internal and external relations among themselves.
Thus, our workers fall into not only material but also spiritual poverty.
INSURANCE AND COOPERATIVIZATION
Although the S.S.K. endeavors to address workers' social issues such as accidents, sickness, maternity and retirement, not all workplaces are insured.
As is the case in a few provinces of Turkey where the spouses and children of the workers are covered by insurance, this practice should be applied in all provinces of Turkey so that the Turkish worker is included in the scope of compulsory insurance coverage without exception.
At the same time, work will be initiated on the issue of behe- mahal unemployment insurance and it will be put into practice as soon as possible so that the Turkish worker can look to the future with confidence.
In particular, necessary measures will be taken to protect small artisans, craftsmen and workers, and the state will lead the establishment of housing, production, consumption and credit cooperatives.
OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND TRAINING
In addition to economic insecurity, our workers are also deprived of job security.
The infrequent and theoretical seminars organized by the trade unions are not enough, and the rate of occupational accidents has not decreased.
On-the-job training will be at the forefront.
A rigorous training program will be prepared for the adequate training of supervisors, foremen and specialists in charge of this work, and efforts will be made by the state in this direction.
ECONOMIC STATUS
I - SAVINGS AND INVESTMENT DESTINATIONS
1 - GENERAL CHARACTER OF TURKISH ECONOMY
Turkey, like other underdeveloped countries, has an agricultural structure.
In developed countries, between 10 and 25 percent of the population is employed in agriculture, while in less developed countries this rate is between 55 and 85 percent.
In our country, this rate is 75 percent. / (1965)
In terms of average gross domestic income per capita and living standards, the situation is as follows: Gross domestic income per capita is 15.790 TL in France, 16.980 TL in England, 10.320 TL in Italy, 30.020 TL in the USA, whereas in Turkey it is 3.300 TL.
Low individual national income in Turkey,
primitive (traditional) business methods in agriculture
and the fact that we have not solved the problem of industrialization.
Industrialization is shown as a solution for rapid development, as it will put the idle labor force in the agricultural sector into an active form.
The over 6 million hidden unemployed in the agricultural sector is the most important issue our country needs to address.
This can be addressed through industrialization.
2 - OUR INDUSTRIALIZATION CANNOT BE REALIZED WITH TODAY'S PROGRAM:
In order to achieve the industrial revolution, it is necessary to investigate the release and supply markets before establishing industrial facilities in Turkey, as is the case everywhere,
It is necessary to train the staff who will choose the place of establishment and who are equipped with the knowledge of industrial organization and who can carry out modem studies in order to meet the needs.
The A.P. Government, on the other hand, has not been able to develop a serious program, even partially, nor has it shown any effort in its actions so far.
However, the Nationalist Movement Party considers it necessary to establish research and development centers and to increase industrial investments rapidly in order to ensure that our industrial enterprises can keep pace with the technical developments of countries with advanced industries.
Our domestic industry and assembly industry are uncontrolled, closed to competition, operate as monopolies and supply the goods they manufacture to the domestic market at the price they want.
This causes the cost of living.
Based on the theory of in'ikâs in economics, the high prices of industrial goods cause agricultural products to become more expensive, especially in big cities, and increase the livelihood difficulties of our citizens.
This kind of protection of domestic industry is against the interests of the country.
In order to get out of the current economic crisis and build a prosperous and strong Turkey, domestic savings must be increased rapidly and these savings must be allocated to the most productive investment areas.
In order to utilize domestic savings in productive areas, we see great benefits in the establishment of holding companies of people's companies.
The Capital Market Organization Law, which has been pending in the Parliament for a long time, will be passed by the Parliament as soon as possible and it will be beneficial to control and encourage the companies to be established with public participation.
In our opinion, it is not sufficient to set the target of increasing the savings rate in the Gross National Product from 17.9 percent in 1967 to 22.6 percent by 1972, as envisaged by the Second Five-Year Development Plan.
How can we reach the levels of advanced countries with this savings growth of not even one percent a year?
3 - WE SEE THE FOLLOWING PATHS AS ESSENTIAL FOR ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
In this situation, it cannot be said that the A.P., which is the protector of the interests of certain groups, can draw a course and give a direction to the national interests.
The Nationalist Movement Party, on the other hand, considers it essential to implement the following policies in order to mobilize savings to investments and to accelerate economic development.
a) Maintaining price stability in order to increase voluntary savings,
to stop inflationary trends
And we will ensure that tax and price policy is used as an effective instrument to increase public savings.
b) Taxes should be lower on essential goods and higher on luxury goods.
We will realize this principle and put an end to ostentatious consumption and waste.
c) We will take the necessary measures for the development of insurance and trade unionism and ensure that the funds collected within these organizations are directed to investment areas that accelerate economic development.
ç) The current expenditures of the state must be limited,
unnecessary expenses must be avoided and
state money must not be spent for political propaganda and personal interests.
Unfortunately, the practice to date has been full of wasteful spending from the state coffers.
The popular saying "state money is the sea, the pig that does not eat it" is a truth that shows that wastefulness does not go unnoticed by the nation.
No one has the right to eat the people's money earned through hard work.
We will definitely put an end to these wastes.
d) We will definitely take measures to reduce the current expenditures of economic state enterprises as much as possible, to prevent inefficiency in their operations and to reduce the prices of their products.
Our general view in the operation of State enterprises will be the principle of "minimum cost, maximum benefit".
e) Instead of shifting private savings to areas that do not make a major contribution to our national economy, we will foresee the encouragement of private savings to the main investment areas that increase the National Income.
For this, fiscal and economic policies should be given a more national character.
In the long term, an incentive tax policy should be applied to entrepreneurs oriented towards productive areas and underdeveloped regions.
f) We will protect the small tradesmen and artisans in the effort to transition to a modern industrial order, we will not crush the craftsmen and artisans, the apple of the nation's eye, and we will ensure that they are raised to the necessary social level.
g) Our banks give priority to current transactions and prefer to work with large companies that they consider sound.
This attitude is not very useful in Turkey, which is in the process of development.
It is an inevitable necessity that our banks do not restrict the professional activities of tradesmen and small artisans with frozen loans and that savings are directed to investments instead of current transactions.
As the Nationalist Movement Party, we will definitely realize this.
We will do the necessary work to ensure that our banks serve our national interests.
ğ) Those who do not make efforts to develop our foreign trade and exports,
who adulterate our export goods with foreign substances so that we can no longer find customers,
We will not outsource our import and export business to organizations, most of which are non-national and do not consider our national interests.
No one has the right to degrade Turkish goods in the world markets and to show Turkish merchants as dishonorable.
As a result of the calculations made, 229 out of 250 of those conducting our foreign trade are engaged in non-national behavior.
Some of them, in agreement with the counterparty, overstate the import price by an appropriate amount and keep the difference in foreign banks.
Smugglers of foreign currency, who keep the country's income out of the country through many other despicable means, cause a decrease in our foreign exchange income and lower our reputation against foreign countries.
The tax rebate premium paid on export goods, workers' remittances and tourist remittances has brought the value and equivalent of 1 dollar to 12-14 liras.
This situation proves the existence of a de facto devaluation in Turkey.
The ruling government gives 1 US dollar, which costs 12 to 14 liras, to importers at 9 liras, thus causing a loss of nearly 4 billion liras a year to the state treasury.
Every year this money is being burdened on the backs of our poor people by increasing taxes on vehicles.
No country in the world, except the communist bloc, has a foreign trade regime that operates in this manner.
Governments have so far left the door open for importers to smuggle foreign currency.
The foreign exchange equivalent of the above 4 billion Turkish liras, which is paid from the State Treasury every year, is collected by importers in Swiss and other foreign banks.
On the other hand, every year, the ruling party borrows 150 to 200 million dollars from foreign countries.
The amount of interest paid to foreign countries every year has reached fifty-five percent of the borrowed money; future generations have been burdened with debts that they will not be able to overcome.
In these conditions, the government is rejoicing that we are borrowing from foreign countries.
As long as the doors of deception and profiteering in foreign trade are not closed, our country will not have to borrow from foreign countries to obtain foreign currency.
The AP government, which did not enact the personnel, workers' pension and university laws despite its promises due to budgetary constraints, would have enacted these laws and brought Social Justice and peace to the country if it had not paid 4 billion liras every year from the state coffers to the importers unjustly and uselessly.
As MHP, our goal will be to take adequate measures and make the necessary reforms in this regard.
We, as the Nationalist Movement Party, want to give our foreign trade a national character,
protection of our exporters who work honorably,
We believe that foreign companies should have confidence and trust in our exports and we will do what is necessary to realize this.
We are in favor of equipping the necessary control institutions with the necessary authority and responsibility.
Immediate action must be taken and our foreign trade legislation must be corrected.
h) We will establish a standard of living maintenance organization to ensure that the prices of goods and purchasing power are maintained in a balanced manner in order to protect the interests of our low-income citizens, especially in the face of rising price levels.
4 - SALVATION IS NOT IN IMPORTED ECONOMIC SYSTEMS BUT IN A NATIONALIST ECONOMIC SYSTEM SUITABLE FOR OUR STRUCTURE
It is important to note that the economic measures we want to implement have been found as measures against the failures in our national structure.
This shows that the economic crisis Turkey is going through is completely unique and has emerged as a result of its own structure.
Therefore, economic development cannot be solved by importing economic systems from abroad.
Our country, which has a special economic and social structure, needs a nationalist economic order in line with the national character.
The one with an internationalist character,
who have threatened the very existence of nations,
tyranny instead of freedom,
bringing misery instead of prosperity,
that creates a country of people whose faces are full of misery and who have no capital but misery.
Religious,
morality,
nationality
ownership
who want to destroy customs and traditions
We will never forgive those who advocate socialist systems and communism.
We reject capitalism, which is the system of the greedy Christian West, which suits their interests and the interests of the members of Zionism.
Turkey, the last bastion of Turkishness, is being turned into a
It wants to be turned into a satellite of socialist and capitalist countries serving foreign ideologies.
Those who lack the consciousness of protecting the Turkish national economy are knowingly or unknowingly doing a disservice to our Nation.
If they bothered to think a little, they would realize that social justice and social security are essential for national stability and peace;
the customs and traditions of our nation,
They will find that it has been considered to the greatest extent in the principles, ancestral sayings, spiritual beliefs and practices of the past.
Then they will realize the futility of foreign doctrines.
But neither the socialist nor the capitalist mentality can be expected to have this effort and understanding.
Because they do not have the spirit and mindset of the Turkish nation.
They have become alienated from our nation by melting into the cultures of other nations.
Therefore, it is wrong to expect a national economic doctrine from such imitative politicians.
The practices of other nations can only be a helpful resource for us.
It cannot be fundamental, sadly they still have not understood this.
"WE WILL SAVE OUR TURKEY FROM BEING A COUNTRY OF HUNGRY FREEMEN OR FULL CAPTIVES"
As the Nationalist Movement Party, we find salvation in solving our economic problems with a system that is in line with our national character, not in adhering to this or that doctrine.
With this national economic system, Turkey will be saved from being a country of "hungry freemen or full captives".
II - BALANCED REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT
Ensure equal conditions and opportunities to benefit from state support and opportunities,
State facilities will be allocated to underdeveloped regions to ensure balanced regional development
Industrial Zones with roads, water and electricity will be established to facilitate industrialization and development in these areas.
Land will be provided by the State, roads will be built by the State, electricity, water, gas will be brought by the State.
When these zones are completed, they will be handed over to those who will establish industrial facilities within the plan and program
, and the use of modern technologies that enable exports will be ensured in the enterprises.
III - TRADE
A.FOREIGN TRADE:
Our imports will not be administratively restricted.
Import of investment goods will be facilitated and import of luxury goods will not be encouraged.
Our first target in foreign trade is one billion dollars worth of exports.
In order to achieve this goal, investments will be supported with all incentive measures,
other hand, a marketing organization will be created to ensure that the produced materials and products are recognized and established in foreign markets and that their sales increase further.
Credit policy will be organized according to the principles of investment development and export promotion.
Export insurance and an export bank will be established, and export credit facilities will be further developed.
Our Foreign Trade will be reconsidered as a whole and the institutions that have no function other than increasing formalities and making exports difficult will be abolished, organized according to the needs of the day, and given a new direction and movement.
B. DOMESTIC TRADE
The domestic market will be rescued from its present state of chaos, devoid of state protection.
The flow of goods from the production regions to the consumption regions will be ensured by creating new organizations that will protect the interests of producers and consumers in a fair manner.
Public markets established by public joint stock companies will be established.
IV - FISCAL POLICY
A. TAX:
We will soon realize the tax reform that has been promised for years but has never been realized.
In this way, it will be ensured that every citizen will be subject to taxation in proportion to his/her benefit from the blessings of the country and the state.
Taxation will be
clear, precise and definite.
The payment procedure will be simplified, as will the determination of the amount of the tax.
Taxes will be collected in the most convenient time and manner for taxpayers.
It will be ensured that taxation and taxation will be in a manner that will not harm economic life and especially in a manner that will increase production and productivity.
Taxes will be organized in such a way that they can be used as a tool for social and economic reforms.
B. MONEY:
The Turkish currency will be rescued from its current state of devaluation and loss of function due to incompetent administrators, and its appreciation will be ensured.
Money cannot be issued without the creation of value.
Money will be prevented from being idle, invested in productive areas and money security will be ensured.
Money will be transformed from its current state of increasing prices, lowering the level of life and causing hardship to citizens, to a means of creating value.
It will become a sought-after commodity in world markets, not a despised one.
C.CREDIT:
The credit system will be reviewed and reorganized.
Credit resources that have not been fully mobilized despite all the bluster will be fully mobilized.
It will be ensured that every entrepreneur will benefit from the credit facilities, which are not subject to a fair distribution, under equal conditions, by reviewing the maturity, interest, amount and grace periods,
will support investments
and will be redetermined in a way to encourage exports.
V - FOREIGN CAPITAL :
If, because Turkey needs foreign capital, we do not pay due attention to the inflow of foreign capital and to the follow-up of foreign capital that has received and will receive entry permits, the so-called capitulation privileges may once again plague this country.
In this respect, control must be very strict and in very safe hands, and our national interests must not be given away to foreigners.
We, as the M.H.P., will always be against foreign capital that will enter and operate randomly, and we will not let our national interests be sold to foreigners.
Citizens have confidence in us in this regard.
Because the M.H.P. is the only party that represents Islamic morality and virtue, Turkish pride and consciousness, and protects our national interests.
1 - Turkey's economic development will only be possible through industrialization.
Industrialization requires a high level of investment.
However, our country has a structure dominated by activities based on agriculture.
In this respect, in order to realize our development move, it is necessary to adapt the agricultural sector to the requirements of the modern age while giving due importance to the industrial sector.
In agriculture, primitive business methods will be replaced by modern business methods.
2 - The share of the industrial sector in Turkey's national income is around 19 percent.
(18.6) Increasing this ratio to higher levels means putting the idle labor force in our country into an active form.
However, our industrialization drive requires not only labor but also
capital, entrepreneurs,
technical know-how and organization.
In our country, as in other underdeveloped countries, there is a lack of capital stock,
inadequate technical knowledge and organization, and a shortage of people equipped with adequate knowledge and experience.
For this, the import of foreign capital is essential.
However, there are various opinions and debates about the import of foreign capital.
3 - As the Nationalist Movement Party, we accept that foreign capital can have some benefits.
We can list them as follows.
a) In our country, as in other underdeveloped countries, the inadequacy of capital in the face of idle labor is well known.
Foreign capital should be imported in order to eliminate such labor-capital mismatch.
b) Industrial enterprises require the employment of high quality technical staff, skilled workers and manual workers.
It is a fact that companies with foreign capital play an important role in their training.
c) The mutual relations of local entrepreneurs with foreigners and their joint business life through the partnerships they establish increase the knowledge, experience and administrative capabilities of our local entrepreneurs.
ç) Technical knowledge cannot always be obtained by paying a price, sometimes it is brought to the country through foreign capital.
4 - Underdeveloped countries, which need technology for their economic growth, do not have a strong bargaining power in terms of what they will give in return.
Therefore, the country that gives foreign capital establishes economic and political dominance over the recipient country and exploits it.
Today in our country there are debates on the blessings and burdens of foreign capital.
These debates are more influenced by political and ideological struggles.
However, technology imports are a necessity for Turkey, as for every developing country.
Therefore, the work to be done is to observe our national interests to the maximum extent, to make fair and most appropriate agreements with foreign capitalists and to act very carefully in these agreements.
5 - The inflow of foreign capital has legal, economic and social consequences in practice.
A good calculation of the consequences of these influences
and a good control of foreign capital outflows is a necessity for our national economy.
Foreign capital, which takes away several times more than it brings in and hinders the development of domestic industry, will not be given the opportunity.
Unfortunately, a good practice has not been carried out in Turkey until today.
Thus, in the assembly, pharmaceutical and food industries, there is a complete lack of control and looseness.
The M.H.P. will use Foreign Capital according to our national interests, in accordance with the principle of the Nationalist Movement to prioritize national interests above all else.
AGRICULTURE - VILLAGE AND PEASANT ISSUES
I - LEGAL ORDER
The first condition for agricultural activities is the establishment of a social and legal order that guarantees the fruits of peasant and farmer labor and mobilizes them to the fullest extent.
In this regard, the first things that the M.H.P. will deal with in relation to peasants and farmers are the following.
1 - VILLAGE BOUNDARIES i
Village boundaries will be determined rapidly according to reasonable and fair principles and border disputes that collectively violate social peace in villages will be put an end to.
For this purpose, modern systems will be established instead of the primitive procedures envisaged in the village law.
2 - RANGES
The principles of village and family level utilization of pastures that are offered for the benefit of various villages or a single village will be determined. On the one hand, pasture disputes that disrupt peace and tranquility between villages will be prevented, and on the other hand, a more equitable order will be adopted in the utilization of pastures by families.
The opening of pastures will be put an end to once and for all, and this will be left to the responsibility of a unit in the central administration.
In order to prevent the destruction of pastures as a result of overgrazing, the number of animals will be adjusted according to a ratio that our pastures can handle within a reasonable period of time, and more efficiency will be obtained from less animals.
Pasture yields will be increased by developing a system based on scientific methods such as alternation in the use of pastures.
Destroyed pastures will be reconstructed and restored in a short time with the cooperation of the people and the government.
3 - WATERS
The use of water will be subject to new principles based on economic and fair considerations,
on the one hand, and maximizing extraction on the other,
on the one hand, and the realization of social justice, on the other.
The portion of the water that is not consumed in the land from which it originates will be nationalized.
The system where individuals sell water will be ended.
4 - FORESTS
Necessary legislative amendments will be made in order to finalize the delimitation of forests in a short time
, and public-forest relations will be reorganized on the basis of mutual benefit instead of mutual destruction.
In the light of the Constitution and forest legislation, opportunities will be explored for people to engage in afforestation activities in areas that are inherently forest land, and
new systems will be developed for the benefit of forest villagers from olive groves, pistachio groves and carob groves in forest areas, provided that the state retains the right of ownership and supervision.
5 - CADASTRAL AND LAND REGISTRIES
The cadastre of the country's territory will be completed within a maximum of five years and border disputes will be put an end to by giving security and clarity to human relations with the land.
6 - LAND USE
Scientific methods will be used to determine which crops are more suitable for which soils, and the cultivation areas will be limited according to domestic consumption and export possibilities, so that neither crop scarcity nor crop waste due to lack of utilization will be avoided.
In cases where a citizen has to plant low-income crops instead of high-income crops, the difference will be paid by the state.
The fallow and cultivated areas will be gathered in certain parts of the village and the fallow areas will be utilized for animal grazing, but the cultivated areas will not be destroyed.
7 - AGRICULTURAL LAW AND ORDER AND PROTECTION OF FARMERS' PROPERTY
The conservation difficulties that prevent the establishment of orchards and vegetable gardens to a large extent will be eliminated, and
the organization for the protection of farmers' property will be strengthened and saved from its disorganized and unattended state.
8 - TENANCY, SHARECROPPING AND AGRICULTURAL LABOR
The situation of tenants, sharecroppers and agricultural workers will be regulated according to fair principles and the exploitation of the manual labor of this group of citizens will not be allowed.
As soon as possible, an Agricultural Labor Law suitable for the conditions of the country will be enacted and the miserable situation of agricultural workers will be ameliorated.
9 - CROP INSURANCE
An Agricultural Insurance covering all crops, starting with the most widespread and most endangered ones, will be established and the labor of Turkish farmers will be secured.
10 - CREDIT SCHEME
In particular, a system will be developed to ensure that poor farmers are provided with timely and adequate credit, and the
activities of the murabahahs, which charge more than 100% interest despite the clear prohibition of the law, will be put an end to.
The guarantee system will be reorganized in such a way that poor farmers will also be able to benefit.
11 - PRODUCTION AND MARKETING
Agricultural Sales and Agricultural Credit Cooperatives will be reconsidered and reformed according to the conditions of the day,
a proper distribution of crops throughout the country will be ensured,
exorbitant price differences and horrible intermediary profits will be put an end to.
II - INVESTMENTS RELATED TO AGRICULTURE
1 - GENERAL PRINCIPLES
In the distribution of investmentsa) Orientation towards maximum production,
b) The elimination of the differences between classes and regions will be based on two basic principles and will be carried out in the direction determined by these two.
If investments are allocated to productive but high standard of living areas, a reasonable portion of the proceeds will be shifted to low standard of living areas on a payback and tax basis.
Provided that the amount of work to be done in a long time remains the same, the principle of starting less work and finishing it in a short time will be adopted instead of starting a lot of work and finishing it in a long time, and investments will be prevented from remaining idle for a long time and will be transferred to production in a short time.
Participation of beneficiaries in investments will be essential, but exemptions will be granted to small farmers.
2 - IRRIGATION INVESTMENTS
Irrigation investments will be shifted to areas where new high-yielding crops can be rapidly substituted and all services will be provided to these areas together in order to make irrigation investments more efficient.
Necessary efforts will be made to mobilize the energy of the people in increasing the irrigation areas and the regulatory and guiding activities of the State will be extended to all villages.
The leveling of soils in irrigation areas will be accelerated to a large extent and small and simple irrigation and leveling equipment will be manufactured and distributed domestically.
3 - FLOOD PROTECTION, EROSION INVESTMENTS
Forestry and irrigation investments will be handled together and in a complementary and complementary order. By adopting the principle of afforestation and establishment of biological cover instead of construction structures, on the one hand, protection efforts will be realized and on
the other hand, the purpose of production will be realized automatically.
4 - FORESTRY ACTIVITIES
Taking into account the grave erosion problems that the country is facing, on the one hand, state afforestation, which has been very slow, is accelerated,
participation of the public in afforestation activities will be encouraged to a large extent, and
new systems will be developed to facilitate the cultivation of fruitful and non-fruitful trees by the public, whose place and style of cultivation do not contradict the principles of forestry, and to enable the public to benefit from them.
5 - INVESTMENTS IN FERTILIZERS AND AGRICULTURAL PESTICIDES
On the one hand, the production and production of fertilizers and pesticides in sufficient quantities to meet the needs of the whole country and the development of a distribution system that ensures their easy transfer to the farmers, on the
other hand, a unit responsible for fuel affairs will be established under the central administration, and citizens will be provided with cheap liquid gas-lin fuel and firewood, thus preventing the burning of farm manure and ensuring its transfer to the field.
III - FORESTRY, ANIMAL HUSBANDRY AND FIELD AGRICULTURE
A balance will be struck between the three sub-sectors of agriculture - field agriculture, animal husbandry and forestry - so that these elements, which are currently destroying each other, will become mutually reinforcing.
The lands will be classified by scientific methods and allocated to the most appropriate sectors and all efforts will be made to develop them in these directions.
It will not be possible for animals driven out of pastures to climb into forests and destroy them, or for rubble from deforested mountains to render farmland inaccessible.
IV - DEVELOPMENT OF AGRICULTURAL TECHNOLOGY:
1 - CROPS TO BE GROWN AND IN-COUNTRY DISTRIBUTION
Soils of the country will be surveyed to determine where and which crops can be grown in line with climatic conditions and consumption possibilities.
2 - AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH
A large agricultural research center will be established and its branches will be opened throughout the country, the problems encountered by the practitioners will be transferred to these centers, the results will be transferred to the practitioners and the conditions for a rapid agricultural development will be prepared.
3 - AGRICULTURAL EDUCATION
- a) Vocational Training -Vocational training and formation will be reorganized according to the conditions and needs of Turkey, and the distribution of professional staff at various levels will be adapted to the conditions of the country.
b) Mass Education - In this way, the Radio and Television will be utilized in the widest way, and the de- manstration activities to be carried out by making use of films will be delivered to the remotest corners, and all efforts will be made to ensure that professional personnel work in the fields instead of in big cities.
4 - MECHANIZATION
Special projects will be developed in order to give a wide place to Mechanization in Agriculture and to ensure the domestic production of all agricultural vehicles. Instead of the slogan of first automobile and then tractor, the slogan of first tractor and construction machinery and then automobile will be substituted.
5 - The target will be to increase agricultural productivity by 100% within 15 years.
V - AGRICULTURE AND LAND REFORM
The population engaged in agriculture is extremely high compared to our land holdings.
As long as this population is maintained in the agricultural sector, there is no possibility and probability of reforming our agricultural structure.
In this respect, industrialization is not only a necessity but also a minimum condition for the development of agricultural structure and production.
The overwhelming majority of agricultural holdings are not self-sufficient.
Some of these enterprises will be transferred to the industrial sector
and the land left by these enterprises will be transferred to other enterprises in a planned and programmed manner, and all enterprises will be made sufficient.
Small fields will be consolidated.
Expropriation of large enterprises will be resorted to in exceptional cases, and barren and unproductive lands and areas of maquis and heathland over 40,000,000 acres will be rehabilitated and transferred to forest villagers.
In accordance with the mandate of the Constitution, it will not be possible for the use of property to be contrary to the public interest.
As explained above, the use of pastures and waters will be regulated in a manner oriented towards maximum production and in accordance with the principles of social justice;
credit, equipment and all kinds of technical assistance will be made available to the villagers to an adequate extent; the
State will organize production, supply, marketing and investment cooperatives in order to complement the efforts and to develop unity of work and heart and the old spirit of cooperation.
For all crops - on the model of the Sugar Company - organizations will be established to assist the peasants from planting to sale.
VI - AGRO-INDUSTRY AND MARKETING
One of the two major factors limiting the growth of agricultural production is the lack of agro-industry, which prevents the distribution of crops over time, and
the other is the lack of marketing activities, which prevents the distribution of crops over space.
Therefore, in our country, where it is possible to eat cheap tomatoes for ten months of the year, tomatoes can only be eaten for three months of the year, in one part of the country they are left to rot in the fields due to low prices, while in the other they are sold at exorbitant prices.
This is the same for other crops.
Under the M.H.P. government, a large agricultural industry will be established in the country, all kinds of canned food and fruit juices, tomato paste, molasses and other products will be supplied in abundant and cheap quantities,
wholesale markets that are a source of misery for the producers and consumers will be rehabilitated,
markets will be opened in all consumption centers through cooperatives to be established, and the amount and profit of middlemen will be minimized.
Forest industry will be developed and forest villagers will be employed primarily in this sector.
VII - SOCIAL ORDER
1 - VILLAGE INTEGRITY
The duality of the school and the mosque, which disrupts village integrity, will be abolished,
Every effort will be made to help mosques become centers of development enthusiasm,
The power of faith will be widely utilized in development.
By ensuring that qualified and enlightened imams who are graduates of the Imam Hatip School are appointed to teach in the villages, the duality between schools and mosques will be eliminated
and great savings will be achieved.
2 - K O N U T
Zoning services will be extended to the villages and type projects will be prepared for village houses, including needs such as haystacks, corrals and barns and warehouses, and the housing conditions of our villagers will be improved by giving importance to the prefabricated house industry,
clean drinking water and electricity will be provided to every village.
3 - HEALTH SERVICES:
Mobile medical teams will be established, a doctor will be delivered to every village at least once a month, a
midwife will be assigned to every village in a short time,
health insurance will be established for all citizens, examination and treatment will be provided by the state.
4 - I S K A N:
Mountain villagers who cannot be developed in their regions will be transferred to the industrial sector, and
some of these villages will be relocated to reclaimed wasteland, swamp, heath and maquis areas.
The establishment of agricultural and industrial towns by merging villages with similar social conditions and occupations will be encouraged.
