LABOR, DEMOCRACY and FREEDOM BLOCK
1. Democratization 2. Economy, Education, Health 3. Environment, Nature and Ecology 4. Youth 5. Urban 6. Disabled 7. Foreign Policy
1. DEMOCRATIZATION
Democracy is not just about elections every four years, but about the right of the people and all individuals to have a say about themselves and others in every second of their lives,
direct participation in governance,
accountability, supervision
And we have to show the AKP that we want to live in peace with all its values.
AUTONOMIST DEMOCRATIC CONSTITUTION
At a time when the September 12 coup constitution no longer has any legitimacy, we will build a libertarian, democratic, egalitarian and pro-people constitution together.
Not imposing any ideology,
does not define the nation and citizenship on ethnic grounds,
limiting the powers of the state,
based on individual-collective rights,
in favor of labor,
gender liberation,
that equates respect for nature with respect for human beings,
Together we will make a new constitution that protects all the different cultures, beliefs and values of Turkey.
Instead of leaving the constitution-making to the parliament, we will make our demands visible through a long-lasting popular struggle in the form of a constitutional movement,
and we will build the constitution together with the people.
DEMOCRATIC SOLUTION TO THE CURD PROBLEM AND PEACE
The Kurdish Question, for which no one desires anything other than a democratic, peaceful solution, must be resolved in this period.
To make an accounting of the past years by consulting our consciences
and stopping the bloodshed over the Kurdish Question is no longer a promise, it is a duty.
While the people are so eager and hopeful for peace, we will not allow the war to start again for the sake of AKP's votes and interests.
On the one hand, the conflict feeds
on the other hand, we will expose both faces of the AKP, which declares everyone except itself to be pro-war
and we will take the initiative for lasting peace.
We will ensure lasting peace with our projects and practices to solve the problem on the grounds of democratic politics.
None of us has any interest in another 30 years of war,
a single life to be lost,
He could no longer tolerate the loss of wealth.
We will force the AKP government to account before history, like all governments that insist on the lack of a solution, that condemn the society of Turkey to war, turmoil, pain and tears for their political and economic rents instead of the peoples living together in peace and brotherhood, and we will
bring about the solution not by seeking help from the government, but with our own power and determination.
TRUTH INVESTIGATION AND JUSTICE COMMISSION
Exposing those responsible for all social suffering, insan rights violations, massacres, deportations, military coups, torture, unsolved murders, village burnings and disappearances that have been covered up despite having occurred in the past and recently,
to hold the perpetrators to account within the law,
In order to eliminate victimization and social trauma, a Truth and Justice Commission will be established to confront the past.
Dersim, Ağrı, Zilan, MaraĢ, Çorum, Sivas massacres will also be investigated by this commission and all the facts will be revealed.
Such a commission, established and operating according to international standards, is a democracy.
and an absolute necessity for peace.
POLITICAL PARTIES LAW AND ELECTION THRESHOLD
Leader sultanate in political parties will definitely be put an end to,
the grassroots, voters, members are effective in party governance
and participate directly in decisions.
Women and youth organizations in political parties will be organized as autonomous assemblies
and will be directly influential in party policies.
The electoral threshold will be abolished altogether.
Positive discrimination will be made until equality is achieved in representation levels in the administration through gender quotas.
Co-presidency system will be legalized.
Treasury aid to political parties shall be distributed equally to all parties qualified to stand for elections.
DEMOCRATIC AUTONOMOUS GOVERNMENTS WILL BE ESTABLISHED
Our proposed solution for the democratization of the administrative structure is democratic autonomy, which we define as regional administrations.
We see Democratic Autonomy, which means democratic self-government, as a reinforcement of the essential qualities of the democratic republic.
Not division and fragmentation, as claimed, but democratic unity,
Democratic Autonomy, which will be the guarantee of the direct and participatory democracy model, can be realized için together with the work on the new constitution.
a fundamental reform of the political and administrative structure is needed.
On this basis, Turkey will be divided into 20-25 autonomous regional governments according to their socio-economic structure.
These autonomous regional administrations, which will function as an administrative and political management body between the central government and local governments, will facilitate and speed up the work,
ensure direct participation of the people in governance, and will be an
important step towards democratization.
In this administrative model, there would be a decentralized regional assembly, similar in structure to the elected provincial general assemblies, covering neighboring provinces that have intensive socio-cultural and economic relations with each other.
These assemblies should be given political and administrative legal and political security and identity according to Turkey's regional specificity.
These regional assemblies will be responsible for education, health, culture, social services, agriculture, maritime, industry, zoning, environment, tourism, telecommunications, women, youth, sports and other service areas.
Foreign affairs, finance and defense services would also be run by the central government.
Police and justice services will be run jointly by the central government and regional assemblies.
In addition to Turkish, the official language of the whole country, regions will be able to use other languages as second or third languages according to their specific needs.
According to their level of development and population, regional assemblies will receive a share from their local revenue and income sources in addition to the budget allocated by the central government each year.
Underdeveloped and poor regions will be given positive discrimination by the central government.
Our Alliance believes that such an organization will go a long way in building a democratic republic.
Thus, it will realize the administrative and political democratization that has not been realized since the first establishment of the republic.
YÖK AND MGK TO BE ABOLISHED
The September 12 coup d'état institutions YÖK and MGK will be abolished,
damages incurred by all citizens who have been victimized by all kinds of injustices committed by these institutions in the past will be compensated.
VILLAGE GUARDS TO BE ABOLISHED
The village guard system, which was created as a private warfare apparatus, will be abolished and
village guards will be employed in forest and environmental works.
In addition, all other special warfare apparatuses such as JITEM, special teams, etc. will be put an end to.
JUDICIAL REFORM WILL BE MADE
The justice system will be reorganized in order to ensure that justice is swift, impartial and satisfactory to the public conscience and individuals.
In this framework, new judicial buildings will be built,
the number of personnel in judicial and administrative judiciary will be increased, and
automation system will be established to cover the entire judicial network.
The structure of the HSYK will be reorganized in favor of the justice organization and
political influence through this board will be eliminated.
The Board will be divided into two sub-units, namely the boards of judges and prosecutors.
Special Authorized Courts, which are the current implementation of the Revolutionary Courts, will be abolished.
Cell-type prisons will be closed and
other prisons will be reorganized in a manner befitting human dignity.
Prisons will only be places that restrict the "freedom to be outside" and will
no longer be centers of torture.
Education in the mother tongue will be recognized as a right for all and the
opportunity to receive education in the mother tongue will be ensured in addition to the teaching of the official language, Turkish, at all stages of education.
These demands will be met through autonomous regional administrations.
× In addition to Turkish, the official language throughout the country, the use of the mother tongue will be free in all public spaces and
citizens will be provided with public services in their mother tongue.
Political Amnesty will ensure the freedom of all political prisoners who have been facing oppression and arrest for years because of their opposition to the system.
All legal and administrative obstacles to freedom of expression and freedom of association will be removed
and a standard in line with international human rights instruments will be introduced.
The Anti-Terror Law, which has been abused by governments at every opportunity to suppress dissent, will be abolished.
FREEDOM OF RELIGION AND BELIEF: All obstacles to everyone's freedom to live their social life freely within the framework of their religious beliefs and world view will be removed.
In this framework, all de facto and administrative bans on the headscarf will be ended and the
grievances of all those who have been victimized because of this will be redressed.
The Department of Religious Affairs will be abolished, and
instead "boards for freedom of belief" will be established under the autonomous regional assemblies.
Their main task will be to ensure that citizens are free to practice (or not practice) all forms of worship.
2. ECONOMY, EDUCATION AND HEALTH
Fairness in income distribution,
Not handouts against poverty, but a decent living and social security,
Decent work against unemployment,
Equal free health for all
and the right to social security!
PARTICIPATIVE SOCIAL ECONOMICS AGAINST MONOPOLY
Participation in management,
justice in sharing!
On this basis, our understanding of participatory economics is to put the economy on a legal and moral basis, as opposed to an understanding that puts everything at the mercy of the profit-oriented market,
Allocate more resources to basic social services such as education, health, social security and housing, prioritizing infrastructure such as transportation and energy,
Elimination of inequalities between regions,
Protection of ecological balance
and the development of practices based on an ecological approach,
Improving the economic and social status of women,
It is based on the development of the management and control role of civil society structures in the economy.
For this purpose, mechanisms will be established at Central, Regional and Local levels to ensure the participation and control of producers, consumers and employees in the management of the economy through professional groups and non-governmental organizations outside the government,
On the basis of political and economic democracy, the development of industrialization, agriculture, animal husbandry, science and technology according to the general interests of society will be aimed at the participation of society in economic life through modern democratic multi-partner enterprises and cooperatives in which workers participate in return for their labor,
Development projects will be developed with the participation of Local and Regional Governments and Civil Society Organizations,
Regional Development Centers will be established to concentrate certain investments in order to eliminate regional inequalities,
A Central Development Fund will be established to be transferred to underdeveloped regions.
ENDING THE UNFAIR TAX SYSTEM
In this framework; The formation of the budget and all kinds of expenditures will be opened to public scrutiny with the participation of organized structures;
more share will be allocated to investments that will create employment; the
share allocated to armament and defense expenditures will be reduced and more
share will be allocated to vital areas such as education, health and social security; the
capital sector, which is borrowed with high interest repayments when it should be taxed, will be taxed at the rate it deserves,
The tax burden will be lifted from the backs of the working people and a fair tax distribution will be made; - The
tax on basic food, education and health will be abolished; - The
definition of luxury consumption will be redefined and
SCT will be redefined according to this definition; - The
informal economy will be effectively combated;
- The minimum wage will be excluded from taxation and all other earnings will be taxed,
inequality in income distribution will be eliminated
To this end, all inequalities will be eliminated through transformative social policies,  democratic institutions and emancipatory laws,
The right to equal citizenship is a right that should be enjoyed by all citizens without discrimination.
and is a right that must be realized in practice.
On this basis, it will be ensured that citizens have equal rights in the areas of income distribution, employment, education, health and social security
, and necessary opportunities will be created in the exercise of these rights, and
necessary arrangements will be made to eliminate the multifaceted grievances that are being experienced.
Unemployment is not destiny, it
can be solved.
What needs to be done to prevent unemployment is first of all the creation of Autonomous Regional Governments based on participatory democracy in all areas.
Through regional administrations, special basins will be established for agricultural products such as wheat, hazelnuts, tea, grapes, olives, as well as meat and dairy products, beekeeping and animal husbandry,
Priority will be given to the development of agriculture,
workers will be provided with secure employment conditions.
Imports will be prevented with high quotas and  domestic production will be encouraged and supported,
Evacuated villages will be reconstructed in line with today's realities by transferring resources from the central government,
reverse migration will be encouraged and supported,
×Regional development plans based on an integrated cooperative system, including production, consumption and development, will be developed, especially for investments to be made by cooperatives.
and employment generating activities will be encouraged and supported,
Privatizations will be ended,
public investment and employment policies will be emphasized,
working hours will be reduced, creating more employment opportunities.
Labor exploitation under the name of subcontracted labor will be ended.
END THE POVERTY OF WORKERS
Minimum wages and pensions to be set above the poverty line,
tax exclusion,
Reduced daily and weekly working hours;
the weekly working time to be set at 35 hours with no reduction in wages,
Flexible, unregulated forms of labor,
Elimination of legal regulations that enable subcontracting,
Ending child labor and the exploitation of child labor,
Unregistered employment will be formalized.
The Labor and Freedom Bloc will reform the Labor Law, the Trade Unions Law and the Law on Collective Bargaining, Strikes and Lockouts in a way that will restore to the working class all its historical gains and rights.
Lockout will cease to be a right.
AN END TO ANY DISCRIMINATION IN THE WORKING LIFE
Positive discrimination will be applied to citizens who are disadvantaged due to their gender, language, religion, ethnicity and sexual orientation,
fight against unregistered economy and illegal labor will be made a fundamental policy;
deterrent and feasible measures will be taken to prevent unregistered work;
Wages and all other working conditions of public workers will be determined through collective bargaining.
The practice of contracted personnel in many sectors of the public sector will be abolished, employees will be made permanent, they
will benefit from job security and social rights, and
regulations that narrow the scope of job security will be ended,
EDUCATION WILL BE MADE A BASIC AND FREE PUBLIC SERVICE AT ALL LEVELS
Education services will be run under the autonomous regional assemblies.
There will be a transition from dual education to single education and
class sizes will be maximum 24 students.
The rates of compensation received by education workers will be increased by at least fifty percent;
janitors and civil servants will be paid additional special service compensation, taking into account the nature of their work.
×All university employees, especially research assistants, who work in universities without job security will be given staff positions.
The practice of contracted teaching will be abandoned immediately and
contracted teachers will be given permanent positions.
EQUAL FREE SOCIAL SECURITY FOR ALL
Families with low income levels will be supported with social assistance,
orphans will be taken under protection and security.
Street children and orphans are open to all kinds of abuse, they are caught in substance addiction and continue their lives in bad conditions.
Our Alliance will create centers for these children where they can receive shelter, education, guidance and health services,
Old age and illnesses requiring special care will be covered by social insurance,
Illegal employment will be effectively combated,
deterrent measures will be taken to ensure that all employees are covered by social security,
Free public provision of health services,
implementation of public health policies based on preventive health services will be considered as a fundamental priority,
Eliminating inequality between provinces and regions in health and social security services will be possible through decentralization of services.
Within this framework, health services will be handed over to the Autonomous Regional Administrations that will be formed,
measures will be taken to facilitate access to health services for citizens,
everyone will receive health services in their mother tongue, and the
Green Card practice will be ended.
Every citizen will be guaranteed free and equal access to health care,
AGRICULTURE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY
THE SECTOR WILL NOT BE ALLOWED TO BE DESTROYED!
Cooperatives will be taken as a basis,
Legal arrangements will be made for cooperatives to become fully autonomous within a confederal structure,
to become financially very strong institutions;
effective measures will be taken against all forms of political interference and manipulation.
Measures will be taken to ensure that Agricultural Sales Cooperatives and Unions can be effective in the regulation of agricultural products markets, and new arrangements will be made in line with today's realities;
cooperatives will be given a decisive role in agricultural development.
Evacuated villages will be reconstructed voluntarily and in line with the desire of the villagers and idle agricultural lands in these regions will be put into operation.
These villagers will be compensated for their losses without any hardship and will be
provided with grants for returning to the village and for agriculture and animal husbandry.
Agricultural engineers and veterinarians will be employed in the agriculture and livestock sector to provide adequate services within cooperatives;
A Responsible Consultancy System will be developed with the condition that it will be funded from cooperatives and service recipients,
Protection of natural resources and environment in agriculture and animal husbandry,
development, protection of gene resources,
ecological agriculture will be made widespread by taking measures that will not lead to a decrease in yield,
foreign dependency in seed will be ended,
3. ENVIRONMENT, NATURE AND ECOLOGY
The plunder, privatization and use of forested areas as construction sites will not be allowed under any pretext whatsoever;
Pollution of rivers, seas, lakes, groundwater and soil with industrial wastes will be strictly prevented;
Historical and cultural heritages such as Hasankeyf, Munzur, Allionai, and natural beauties in the Black Sea will not be sacrificed to HEPPs;
HEPP activities that have started in these areas will be stopped immediately; The
practice of gold exploration with cyanide will be stopped;
Instead of nuclear energy and fossil energy sources, a new "Central Energy Strategy Plan" will be prepared by the "Central Energy Council", aiming to ensure the use of sufficient, domestic, environmentally friendly, clean, sustainable renewable energy sources,
a policy that takes into account the ecological structure and the benefit of society, an
end to privatization,
central planning of the production, transmission and distribution of energy.
4. YOUTH
Young people will be freed from the exploitative environment created by exam-centered education,
Receive free and equal education in their mother tongue in line with their interests and abilities
and will enable them to acquire a profession,
YÖK will be abolished and universities will be restored to an autonomous, scientific and democratic structure
The collection of money from families and students under the names of tuition fees, contributions, expenses, donations and similar names will cease.
×Expenses related to accommodation, nutrition, transportation, education and training needs, social and cultural activities of university students will be covered free of charge.
Uncompensated scholarships will be provided to all students in need.
Higher education will be recognized as a right for all
and university entrance exams will be abolished together with ÖSYM, which has lost its credibility,
All those who wish to be admitted to a university will be placed in line with their success in secondary education, aptitude and demand.
All legal regulations preventing youth participation in politics will be ended and the age of election will be lowered to 18 like the voting age.
Independent organization of youth in all areas where they are present,
regulations will be made enabling them to associate with and work in political parties
Compulsory military service will be abolished.
The right to conscientious objection will be legalized.
4. URBAN
The Labor and Freedom Bloc envisages urban planning that is compatible with predictable earth, water and air movements, does not harm the natural environment, takes care of the urban poor, and is based on social benefit, planning and participation.
The participation of all women, men and children living in the city in decision-making processes is essential.
Urban governance mechanisms (Democratic City Councils) are established in such a way as to bring together laborers and the oppressed who resist the effort to subordinate urban space to capital accumulation strategies.
Urban transformation policies result in the exile of poor urban laborers to the outskirts of the city, weakening social solidarity practices and cultural diversity.
Capitalist mentality and policies that open urban lands to competition and capital accumulation and generate rent will be fought.
The establishment of eco-cities will be encouraged and
local governments' projects in this field will be supported.
5. DISABILITIES
Covert or overt discrimination against persons with disabilities shall be effectively combated and
conditions shall be created for persons with disabilities to participate effectively in political decision-making mechanisms.
In the new legislative period, Parliament will ratify the United Nations Convention on the Human Rights of Persons with Disabilities as a priority.
The definition of disability, which is not in line with today's standards and victimizes hundreds of thousands of disabled people, should be changed and the
40 percent limit should be removed.
Rights and exemptions will be reorganized according to the degree of disability, starting with at least 10 percent loss of workforce.
Employment opportunities provided by the law will be implemented meticulously. The
compulsory employment rule in the Labor Law, which applies to workplaces employing more than 50 people, will be changed to 25 people or more
and incentives will be provided for the employment of more disabled people.
All disabled people who are unable to work will receive a pension sufficient for them to lead a life worthy of human dignity.
Disabled people are not made dependent on others in this way,
They will be provided with conditions in which they can live without being abused by others.
The 16- and 18-year periods for disabled employees to qualify for retirement should be reduced,
thereby increasing the circulation of disabled employment and creating opportunities for more disabled people to participate in working life.
5. ÈWORK POLICY!
Under the new political and administrative structure in the Democratic Self-Governments, diplomatic activities will be within the purview of the central government.
There will be no secret agreements on foreign policy and
all work will be shared and coordinated with the central parliament.
The Armed Forces will not be sent across borders under any circumstances.
No country's territorial integrity and border inviolability will be violated.
Turkey will leave NATO, to which it has belonged since 1952.
All foreign military bases in Turkey will be closed.
Turkey will work for nuclear disarmament worldwide and
will not be involved in any nuclear project.
The Bloc for Labor, Freedom and Democracy will oppose any nuclear power plant that disguises nuclear disarmament.
Ban all biological, bacteriological and chemical weapons.
Our bloc will defend a common front of struggle with all the peoples of the region against Turkey's hegemony efforts against the states of the region together with the US and the Israeli state
, and will act with the goal of a Democratic Peoples Confederation in the region.
The practice of the Middle East provides countless lessons that problems are not solved solely through the diplomatic activities of states.
Today's need for a transnational society makes this kind of solidarity organization indispensable.
In the Middle East, the confederalism of states and the democratic confederalism of civil society are equally important and necessary, and will be developed in parallel and complementary directions.
The right of Cypriots to self-determination will be fully respected.
Full membership relations with the EU will be maintained within the framework of the above principles.
As the most concrete expression of our commitment to all our values that we have created with a thousand labor and cost and for which we have struggled for years, we say; Enough is enough! We stand for labor, democracy
and to build a future in favor of freedom,
It is time to live in peace as brothers and sisters.
LABOR, DEMOCRACY and FREEDOM BLOCK
