I. PREFACE
Political parties are established and operate to serve the nation, state and country.
Until today, those who have seen political parties only as a means for a handful of people to come to power have always acted with an extreme partisan mentality, putting party interests above all else.
The dominance of such a mentality in Turkish political life has caused democracy to be jeopardized from time to time.
The democratic culture of our people today is not at a level to tolerate a power-opposition relationship that resembles a blind fight.
Fighting and quarreling accelerates polarization in our country.
Such polarizations as Turkish-Kurdish, Secular-Antilaic, Sunni-Ni-Alevi will lead the country into serious dangers.
We must understand the games that foreign powers want to play and take measures accordingly.
Those who cannot see the future should withdraw from Turkish political life.
We must all exist for Turkey.
If this roof collapses, no one can survive under it.
Therefore, first and foremost, all my citizens, Turkey first,
then for countries and communities with which we have cultural and historical unity
and finally to be one and united for world peace.
Turkey, with a population of more than 60 million
very well trained staff,
a society that accepts innovations open to development
and with its superior culture that has left its mark on history, it is a candidate to become one of the superpowers in the second millennium.
This power is in our nation.
It is a question of organizing this power and directing it towards lofty goals.
Where people trample each other,
where the strong crush the weak,
The systems of exploitation, bribery, corruption, ugliness and swamps are collapsing one by one.
The reason why this collapse did not take place is that the people could not see alternative political parties.
Being an alternative is not easy.
It requires years of suffering, struggle and gaining confidence with the cadres it has trained.
Our beloved nation sees this mission in the Nationalist Movement Party with the justified confidence it provides and is preparing to bring the Nationalist Movement Party to power.
As the Nationalist Movement Party, we believe that a period of peace in which blood and tears do not flow in the world with the strong people of our strong country,
He states that we will not let down our beloved nation who believe and trust that we will be effective in the establishment of a world order based on the principle of "right is for the rightful",
As the pioneer of the 250 million-strong Turkic world and the Islamic world, I promise that we will put an end to the "Bandit Law" in the world with the leader Turkey.
The Nationalist Movement Party is openly committed to establishing the new order we all long for,
I wish you good days, happiness and a just order,
who gives no opportunity to the wicked and protects and elevates the good,
a robust and secure system
And in the end, I promise a strong Turkey, a leading Turkey.
Therefore, first and foremost, I call on all our citizens to unity and solidarity and address my beloved nation.
PEACE, NOT FIGHTING,
NOT HATRED AND HATRED, BUT LOVE,
TO RACE, NOT TO FIGHT,
I CALL FOR JUSTICE, NOT EXPLOITATION.
I CALL YOU TO THE PATH OF RIGHT, THE PATH OF TRUTH
I am happy to present this party declaration, which is a document of commitment, to my colleagues who have been pursuing the cause of Turkish nationalism for years, who have suffered a great deal of pain and suffering, to all lovers of Turkey, and to my Great Nation, which has never been able to attain the governance it longs for, and I give good news that the bright days we have promised will soon be realized.
Alparslan TÜRKEŞ
Chairman of the Nationalist Movement Party
II. OUR FUNDAMENTAL VIEWS AND PRINCIPLES
Nationalism MHP considers nationalism, which is formed by the nation and the basic values that hold it together, as the most important reality of the ages and the center of movement of political and social events.
The MHP is a Western-originated negative conception of nationalism with racist and imperialist aims,
is opposed to the divisive class state.
The Turkish nation is composed of individuals who recognize themselves as Turks, who are loyal to the Turkish state and homeland, who have a common sense of lineage and culture, and who have the will to maintain this consciousness.
National State: We are based on a protective and coordinating state that exists to serve the nation.
Democracy Democracy is the most ideal of all existing regimes in the world.
Democracy, the rule of law,
It is the guarantee of human honor and dignity, freedom of opinion, belief, religion and conscience.
MHP is committed to democracy.
Social Justice: 3000 years of Turkish history has shown how true social justice, based on the principle that right belongs to the rightful, has been achieved.
We are committed to making the principle of social justice permeate every cell of Turkish society and to build the state on these values.
We will establish a government where the principle of social justice is fully implemented for the poor, the rich, workers, employers, tradesmen, peasants and civil servants.
Religion and secularism: The MHP sees secularism as a guarantee of freedom of thought, belief, religion and conscience.
We consider both the state's pressure on this issue and the coercion of individuals and communities to change the secular character of the state as a violation of freedom of opinion, belief, religion and conscience.
We recognize secularism as one of the fundamental tools for the survival of the democratic regime.
Socialism: Turkish socialism, "National State",
"Social Justice"
and expresses the view of nationalist thought on Turkish social life towards the establishment of a "Happy Nation".
We will reorganize this understanding with high human values within the framework of contemporary living conditions in a way to offer this understanding not only to Turkish society but to all humanity.
Our Basic Principles
*The principle of respect for human dignity, rights and freedoms
*Principle of the rule of law
*Principle of heart mobilization
*Nine light principle of national development
The Nationalist Movement Party unites our people around sacred values, national consciousness and ideals by making the Islamic ideal, which finds its source in Islamic faith, morality and virtue and the Turkish consciousness, the fundamental basis of our state and national life,
is determined to make it one of the most developed countries in the world within a democratic system.
The Nine Light Principle is a national proposal based on the conditions, history, traditions and essence of our nation.
The main elements of this are as follows: Nationalism - It will provide the psychological dynamics to mobilize our nation towards the ideal of a Strong and Great Turkey and development.
Ülkücülük- It will express the love of service to the state and the nation, which prioritizes renunciation and sacrifice in the social structure where profiteering, indifference and self-interest are widespread.
Moralism - As a society that is moral and virtuous in human relations and has reached the highest level in spirituality, it will have a commitment to development with high values.
Societalism - With this principle, it will be possible to take responsibility from all members of the society with a compassionate "State father" understanding with the belief that "It is not one of us who is full while his neighbor is hungry".
Libertarianism and Individualism - Against oppression, oppression, exploitation and being a controlled society,
to realize human dignity and fundamental rights and freedoms,
It is a mentality that adopts the principle of the free practice of beliefs.
Populism - To protect the interests of the people by protecting the national personality, to
give the people the opportunity of self-government and control, and the idea that the Turkish people, as the true owner of sovereignty, deserve all good things.
Scientism - The aim of raising an army of world-class scholars is the ideal of reaching the information age as soon as possible and rising above the level of contemporary civilization.
Industrial and technicalism - The goal is to reach the level of industrialization and development of knowledge that researches, finds and acquires the latest technologies and to achieve the status of a post-industrial society.
Villagization - "Agricultural Cities", which we put forward in the 1960s, aims to make villages developed and modernized with agriculture-industry as well as agricultural production.
III. POLITICAL RESTRUCTURING
*We will ensure the widest participation of the people in politics and governance: We are in favor of the freedom of all activities except those that threaten the right to life, the peace of society, the existence of the state and the indivisible integrity of the country.
We envisage that civil servants, teachers and workers in the public sector will be able to organize and engage in political activities freely.
*The way for a referendum will be opened: As in advanced democratic countries, we want to go to the people on important issues such as the amendment of the Constitution and the risk of political and economic dependence at the international level (such as accession to the European Union).
*The understanding of honest politicians will prevail: MHP will rebuild the worn out image of politicians with a cadre of politicians who are above petty calculations, without shame, honest and who do their job well.
*The Constitution will be amended: We will prepare a new Constitution that is simpler than the current Constitution and includes basic issues.
We will put the constitution to the people in a referendum.
State-citizen relations will be organized on the basis of the state serving the citizen, and no authority will be granted unlimited and uncontrolled authority.
State independence,
the integrity of the homeland and the nation,
the individual's freedom of will,
crimes against freedom of opinion, belief, religion and conscience shall be clearly and unalterably specified.
*A just legal system will be established: Law should be based on the consensus of the nation as it is a system of values that encompasses the national structure as well as its human dimension.
Ensuring peace and harmony in basic regulations such as Constitutional Law, Civil Law and Criminal Law, based on winning people,
We will carry out a reform that will eliminate the contradictions and deficiencies that contradict our national culture and values.
We will liberate prisons and detention centers from their current lax structure and ensure that they fulfill their real correctional duties.
We will make the judiciary fully independent and fast functioning, and ennoble the office of the judge in material and moral terms.
The search for rights will be facilitated, the right to defense will be eliminated as a token, and those who cannot afford a lawyer will be provided with this opportunity through the justice fund.
No institution or authority shall be outside and above judicial control.
*Public administration will be reorganized: Arrangements will be made based on trust in the state and returning to its original functions in accordance with the understanding of the state tradition of the Turkish nation throughout history.
- Within this framework: Unnecessary formalities will be removed,
-Local problems will be solved on the spot,
-Public administration will be effectively audited,
-Public officials will be granted the right to union activities,
-Public administration will be made attractive and qualified personnel will be employed,
-The state will be transformed into a "Coordinator State" with a directive, democratic character,
-The state will have the qualities of being a world state that produces protective, compassionate, strong, transparent, encouraging and outward-looking economic and political policies.
*Authorities of Local Administrations will be increased: In order to increase democratic participation, local governments will work independently within certain rules and will have the opportunity to generate resources.
Mukhtars will be provided with social security.
*Internal Security will be modernized: As a requirement of a national and strong state, -Law enforcement forces will work with the most modern and contemporary methods,
-Security and gendarmerie organizations will be brought to an adequate level in proportion to the increasing population, crime and workload,
-Measures will be taken to increase efficiency, communication and mobility, in-service training will be given importance,
-Unity of space and movement in internal security services will be ensured,
-Social and eco¬nomic measures will be taken to ensure that personnel work in peace.
*The most effective fight against terrorism will be carried out: We do not accept the indexing of the terror issue to Kurdish identity.
We will carry out the most effective fight against terrorism for the protection of our unity with our brothers and sisters and citizens with whom we have lived together for thousands of years in the Eastern and Southeastern Anatolia region, for the indivisible integrity of the homeland and for the security of the lives of the people.
-MHP believes that terrorism must be fought with specially trained forces.
Regular army has never succeeded against terrorism anywhere in the world.
While carrying out its special anti-terrorism program, the MHP will strongly oppose ideas such as autonomous region and autonomy.
IV.ECONOMIC RESTRUCTURING
The MHP's individualistic, self-interested and overwhelmingly competitive understanding of the capitalist economy
and does not accept the classist and classist, belligerent, materialist approach of Marxist economics.
MHP in a free market economy
to spread capital to the grassroots and
will pursue an economic policy that prioritizes equality of opportunity.
Balanced development,
fight against inflation,
fair tax system, and registration of
the informal economy will be our priorities.
High development,
Prevention of unemployment,
to the level of developed countries,
The resources required to reach the information age are available within the country's own potential,
legitimizing the informal economy will greatly reduce the resource deficit.
National Economic Policy: It will be based on a basic order that comprehends our nation as a whole, recognizing the right and freedom of movement and enterprise for everyone, without giving opportunity to class and caste domination.
The national economic policy will take into account trade integration with the world on the one hand and
on the other hand, our own needs and interests will be taken into account.
Above all, while considering our people as an economic asset, we will never neglect our responsibility towards the Turkish nation.
-In order to ensure that investments, which are the basis of economic development, are based on sound resources, domestic resources will be well utilized, and priority will be given to productive investments that will be put into production quickly.
MHP will abandon the understanding of projects whose completion times and costs are three to five times higher than those stated in the five-year development plans and whose bills are burdened on our people.
-The MHP is in favor of closing the mountainous budget and foreign trade deficits, which touch the dignity of the nation and jeopardize economic independence, without burdening the people.
-With its experienced and qualified staff, MHP is the only party that can put the Turkish economy back on track and save the country from the situation it is in.
For this purpose, 48 commissions are working under the umbrella of the "Research and Planning Center" established by the MHP and preparations are being made to put our program into effect in the MHP government down to the finest details.
-The MHP has a regulatory, directive and balancing planning approach that is completely outside of rigid and dogmatic central planning and that allows economic institutions and individuals to use their capabilities and entrepreneurial powers. -In
order to ensure balanced development and to reinforce social, cultural and political integrity, new industrial zones will be established outside the Marmara region through incentives, and
small villages and hamlets in the Eastern and Southeastern Anatolia Regions will be moved to "Agricultural Cities" with completed infrastructure.
Priorities of the National Economic Policy: -Fighting inflation,
-Prevention of extravagance and waste, -Balanced budget and fair taxation,
-Gradual abolition of unnecessary state protectionism,
-Freedom in the transfer of goods, capital, technology and people,
-Development of small and medium-sized industry,
-Discouragement of rent-seeking,
-Distribution of ownership to the grassroots,
-Development of the National Sector within the scope of privatization, -
Solving the housing problem by encouraging the construction sector,
- Accelerating development in the service sector and preventing unemployment,
- Reorganizing the banking and credit system,
- Developing the agriculture and livestock sector and the agricultural industry,
- Putting domestic energy resources into use,
- Integration with the world economy, increasing continuous and intensive competitiveness.
In order to prevent inflation, first of all, the air of confidence that will be created in the markets by a strong, stable MHP government that has a command of the country's affairs is important.
-A balanced budget will be implemented by accurately estimating the state's income and expenditures,
-A healthy capital market and stock exchange system will be established,
-The informal economy will be placed on a legitimate taxable basis,
-Taxes will be reduced to a level that citizens can pay,
-Unnecessary, inefficient and luxurious state expenditures will be ended, national savings will be encouraged with fixed VAT rates,
-Domestic and foreign borrowing will be avoided in public financing,
-Except for those of vital and strategic importance, unnecessary product subsidies will be terminated,
-The burden of the state will be gradually reduced by increasing total real incomes by at least 20% without overwhelming the people and disrupting economic balances,
-Investments will be made rapidly in areas where efficient production can be made, and the private sector will be encouraged in this sense,
-Public institutions and organizations will be staffed as much as necessary,
-Defense and security expenditures other than real defense expenditures will be cut, -A
close cooperation and coordination will be ensured between the institutions that direct the economy.
Taxes will be levied on the basis of everyone's ability to pay and a strict audit system will be established.
-Minimum wage will be excluded from taxation,
-Some areas of high earnings that are not taxed or taxed at a very low level will be included within the scope of an effective and equitable tax scheme,
-The complexity in tax types and legislation will be reorganized and made easy to understand and apply,
-Income tax will be reduced to 15%, corporate tax to 25%, real estate tax to 25%, Thereal estate tax will be reduced to 1%, taxes such as inheritance and transfer tax, stamp duty and stamps will be abolished,
-Tax evasion and losses will be strictly prevented under the MHP government,
-Since the MHP government will accomplish the difficult task of registering the unregistered economy, the resources of the state will greatly increase and tax justice will be realized.
We will ensure that the state supports, not hinders, industrialization to reach the level of modern and developed countries.
-Organized industrial zones will be given importance in order to ensure low-cost and regular industrial facilities,
-Investments and exports will be especially encouraged,
-The easy flow of technology and know-how to our country will be ensured,
-The state will shrink in economic activities in the long and medium term, and policies will be followed for the development of the private sector.
In order to develop agriculture, animal husbandry and forestry, we propose restructuring within the framework of the "Agricultural Cities" model, which we put forward in the 1960s and which was later renamed and pronounced by other parties. The
agricultural sector will be encouraged to make high standard and stable production not only for the domestic market but also for the European and world markets;
-Agricultural sector will be directed to agricultural production by young dynamic farmers who have been trained and whose knowledge level is sufficient;
-Agricultural credits will be removed from being symbolic and ridiculous, and instead of interest rates, the Credit Transaction Charge will be introduced, thus freeing Turkish farmers from the burden of high interest rates and placing them under the support and patronage of the state,
-In research institutions, high-yielding hybrid or hybrid breeding studies will be accelerated,
Support will be provided to producers in terms of agricultural and veterinary medicines,
-Livestock credits will be expanded, and mortgage-free controlled credit will be introduced,
-Agricultural product credits granted by the state will be transferred through Credit Distribution Units to be established within Turkish Farmer Unions according to regions and product types,
-The "Minimum Livelihood Line" level of Turkish society will be determined and it will be aimed to raise Turkish farmers above this level.
In the field of Natural Resources, very serious measures will be taken for the protection of our soil, water, mines, flood, erosion and landslide prevention works.
-56% of the forested area covering 30% of our country is unproductive forest.
It is aimed that this area will be restored, afforested and made productive.
-Our mineral resources are as diverse and large as the resources of a continent, and our mineral potential is estimated to be worth 2 trillion dollars.
It seems possible to produce 8-12 billion dollars worth of production every year from this potential.
When this is converted into other processed industrial production, a figure of 30 billion dollars a year emerges.
Necessary legal arrangements will be made for the efficient operation of our mines and incentive measures will be introduced to reduce the risks of assignment activities.
"Turkey Energy Master Plan" on energy resources will be put into practice.
Turkey has to increase its installed energy capacity by 50% after 15 years.
The challenge is to find at least 2 billion dollars every year from 1996 onwards for these investments.
Large investments should be made in this regard, as well as research and applications for alternative energy sources.
MHP will closely follow Turkmenistan natural gas and Azarbaijan-Kazakhstan oil pipeline projects.
Privatization of SEEs will be completed as soon as possible.
-MHP sees privatization as a tool that will enable the transfer of the inefficient enterprises owned by the state to the nation with all their assets and the filling of the gap that will occur when the state withdraws from the economy at the required time with the national sector.
-SOEs should first be sold to the staff, workers and the public,
-Shares will be transferred to the unemployed as a result of privatization against part of their severance pay,
-Monopolies will not be allowed in privatization,
consumer exploitation will be prevented,
foreign capital will also be allowed under these conditions,
-Public land and public buildings will be privatized,
The state will be ensured to make the best use of the rents generated by urbanization,
-All state lodgings will be sold to the nation and privatized, except for security services and lodgings allocated to personnel serving outside the city,
-Institutions and organizations such as foundations, funds, cooperatives, etc., established with state funds and serving certain groups with state support, will be removed from state patronage.
Property will be decentralized and a national sector will be established.
The national sector will bring the economic decisions and preferences, entrepreneurial capability and dynamism of the Turkish people into economic life as a third sector alongside the public and private sectors.
-The national sector, which is a product of the understanding and belief in nation, state, social justice and Turkish socialism, will ensure national solidarity, social responsibility and social peace among workers, civil servants, farmers, tradesmen and artisans, self-employed and employers in the Turkish society as a result of specialization and division of labor.
Through cooperatives, companies and banks to be handled on the basis of the national sector, small enterprises based on a small number of partnerships will be provided with mortgage-free loans and necessary incentives to increase their productivity.
Strict supervision will be ensured to prevent organizational disorders and agency mistakes in the tourism sector,
Tourism,
foreign trade
contracting
Necessary incentives will be provided to facilitate and improve transportation and transit services.
MHP will solve the unemployment problem for the future of our people and our youth.
With the reform to be made in national education, vocational and technical education will be made widespread and job opportunities will be increased,
-Infrastructure and heavy industry investments will be prioritized,
-Production will increase by ensuring modernization in the agricultural sector,
-Wide-scale employment will be provided by establishing light industrial facilities in agricultural cities with financial support, Migration to cities will be reduced and serious steps will be taken to prevent unemployment,
- With the increasing technology, importance will be given to the training of qualified labor force and the Employment Agency will be assigned in this regard
, - The Employment Agency will be reorganized and made functional
, - "Unemployment Insurance" will be implemented as in developed social welfare countries.
Rent-seeking will no longer be attractive. -
All real estates in the hands of the state will be sold and new land will be produced, thus preventing speculative movements and unfair gains,
-Securities such as foreign exchange, interest and gold will be balanced according to their values in the international market, thus preventing significant fluctuations and unfair gains. -The
stock market, which is of great importance for spreading capital to the grassroots, will be brought to the level of the economies of developed countries.
40% rent in dollars is paid to foreign investors and moneylenders through the inflow and outflow of hot money, monetary policy transfers huge resources to foreign moneylenders on the backs of the nation, and the foreign debt burden increases.
This policy will be ended, and unfair profits will be prevented by keeping the TL at its real value.
Consumer protection, changing and developing marketing techniques, price, quality, standardization, advertising and competition issues, the rights and interests of the consumer will be guaranteed by the state.
Small and Medium Scale Industrial Enterprises will be encouraged and
protected against the adverse effects of the Customs Union and the possible European Union.
-In addition to specialized banks, the incentive system and tax legislation, support will be provided within the framework of the risk capital system to entrepreneurs who do not have capital but are experts in their fields.
Tradesmen and craftsmen will be strengthened, the Ministry of Tradesmen will be established and problems will be solved radically.
The tax justice and audit system will be reviewed and small tradesmen will be prevented from being crushed under the tax burden.
Opening a workplace will be made easier, credit facilities will be brought to an adequate level, and a Tradesmen's Bank will be established.
The Bank Credit system will be reviewed.
Banking will be restructured within the framework of the needs of the modern economy, rather than being a system that only lends with real estate mortgages and diverts most of its resources to the public sector.
-All other banks will be privatized except Ziraat and Halk Bank.
- Necessary measures will be taken to make financial institutions linked to profit sharing partnerships more secure, and state banks will be enabled to operate in this system.
-Cooperatives and professional organizations in the nature of chambers, unions and foundations will be encouraged to establish banks in line with their objectives.
-A system will be established to prevent speculative fluctuations and unfair gains in money and capital markets,
-Monopolization in finance will not be allowed,
-Problems in the use of credit card checks and promissory notes will be eliminated,
-Exports will be encouraged not by continuous depreciation of the Turkish currency, but by methods that increase productivity.
We consider it a duty to avoid elements that limit the sovereignty of the Turkish state and the sovereignty rights of the nation and corrupt the national and spiritual cultural structure and values in Foreign Economic Integration.
We are in favor of balanced economic and trade cooperation with the European Union countries as well as with the Turkic Republics, Islamic Countries and Third World countries.
We envisage that the interests of the country will be taken very seriously in the European Union and the Customs Union.
We also advocate a referendum on membership of the European Union for the Turkish people.
We are also planning to establish a Common Market with the Turkic Republics.
In foreign economic relations, we aim for balanced foreign trade and a foreign trade surplus.
V. SOCIAL RESTRUCTURING
Civil society organizations will be strengthened.
These organizations, which play an important role in the relationship between the nation and the state, protect the rights of groups of individuals, and undertake important issues related to the environment, health, science and our future, will be made more effective.
Social solidarity,
Solidarity,
against abuses
The necessary environment will be created for these organizations to play an important role in the struggle.
Due importance will be given to the press and broadcasting organizations, and the necessary conditions will be provided for the mass media to play a more effective role in raising public awareness and supervising administrations as the insurance of democracy.
Except for issues aimed at the destruction of the integrity of the country and the values of society, we see the mass media as the real platform for freedom of thought and as a vital part of the society's functions of receiving information, controlling and seeking rights.
we advocate for these institutions to do their work freely.
We envisage an auto-control system for the supervision of media organs. -
We will reorganize professional organizations within the framework of a single law, we will pave the way for these organizations to cooperate with political parties on professional issues,
-Dems will be prevented from becoming signboard associations, they will be enabled to cooperate with political parties within the framework of social and cultural purposes,
-The current regulations on foundations are far from meeting the needs of the day.
We believe that it would be beneficial for foundations to engage in international activities and cooperate with political parties, as in developed countries,
-The determining role of the state in trade unions and labor-employer relations will be ended.
Beyond the framework of collective bargaining, trade unions will work for the economic and cultural development of their members,
-Strong trade unions will be established in every line of work, and non-unionized workers will be prevented from being left powerless,
-The environment will be created for trade unions to function as pressure groups,
-We advocate that the workers' will be consulted on whether to continue or end the strike.
-The imbalance in income distribution will be eliminated,
tax reform for that,
priority for workers and the public in privatization,
agricultural cities,
venture capital
specialized banks,
formalization of the informal economy,
unemployment insurance
vocational training
capitalization through instruments such as adult education,
preventing rentierism
and social justice will be ensured.
-Many of the problems of foreign workers remain unresolved.
We will make the necessary arrangements for our workers to be seen as first-class citizens in the countries where they live.
For this purpose, we will establish an "Undersecretariat for Workers Abroad" with the status of a state ministry.
We will ensure that the Turkish state fulfills its duties to ensure that the education of our children and youth, who make up one third of our citizens abroad, is in line with Turkish national, spiritual and cultural values.
By opening Turkish houses and cultural centers, we will ensure that our children abroad are directed to useful activities.
Social Security policy will be updated, our social insurance institutions will be gathered under a single umbrella and it will be aimed to include all our citizens under this umbrella.
The example of Oyak sets a precedent for a well-functioning social security organization.
Social security institutions will be established on the same terms and conditions.
Our aim is to bring "social security from cradle to grave" to our citizens.
Unemployment Insurance will be introduced.
The economic and social environment in which unemployment insurance will be provided will be established through the responsibility and participation of each of the triad of workers, employers and the state.
Severance pay will be transformed into redundancy pay with the establishment of unemployment insurance.
The elderly, the weak and the orphaned will be protected and no one will be left in difficult conditions in the face of the cruelty of life.
-MHP is the party that attaches the most importance to the issue of the disabled.
MHP has proven this by having a disabled MP.
-Preventive health measures will be introduced to minimize the possibility of disability from before birth.
Arrangements in modern countries will be established for medical rehabilitation, education and vocational rehabilitation of the disabled.
A ministry will be established to deal directly with the disabled.
Health policy will ensure that health services are no longer available only to those who can afford it, and we will establish a "General Health Insurance" system.
Preventive and curative medicine services will be provided to needy citizens under the umbrella of the state.
-MHP recognizes the strong family structure as the most important basic element for the health of Turkish society.
In this context, the family health protection program,
the institution of the family doctor,
incentives for home-scale production to enable housewives to make productive use of their free time,
establish institutions such as a children's program development center.
With the Community and Environmental Health Program, it is our indispensable goal to provide our people with both the material level to meet the needs of the age and the environmental and health conditions to meet the living standards of the age.
Clean energy sources, vehicle exhaust control, the use of unleaded gasoline, control of the cleanliness of our drinking water, automatic measurement of air pollution, garbage and waste planning, strict control of industrial enterprises regarding environmental pollution are included in this program. - The
MHP, which has the courage and determination to prevent the distortions in urbanization that have so far been tolerated, will
prevent migration to big cities and
solve the economic and cultural needs of agricultural cities and rural areas.
Illegal construction will not be allowed under any circumstances and conditions.
Areas that have not been tested for soil soundness will never be opened for development.
Bureaucracy in housing construction will be eliminated and obtaining construction permits will be simplified.
Land production with completed infrastructure will be accelerated.
State land and real estate will be sold to the nation to prevent speculation and illegal occupation.
VI. RESTRUCTURING IN EDUCATION, CULTURE AND SCIENCE
In the implementation of the Turkish national education policy, two qualities will be targeted in the people to be raised.
1. To recognize, believe in and live his/her national culture; to be
loyal to his/her religion, traditions, history, in short, to all the values of his/her nation; to have the characteristics that can be called a personable, nationalist, idealist, Muslim-Turkish intellectual who has adopted the glorification of the nation as a principle;
2. To have the characteristics that can be called a productive and resourceful intellectual who has learned the basic knowledge, skills and methods of his/her profession, who is knowledgeable, intelligent, who has realized his/her professional education at the highest level.
The most important issue in national education is to raise the type of people who will ensure spiritual and material development
and to prepare the needed labor force potential for business life and take their place in society.
We believe that, first and foremost, workforce planning is essential to achieve this goal.
Most importantly, it will be ensured that the future workforce potential will be transferred to life in a healthy and balanced manner by making at least 25-year education workforce planning.
The education system will be predominantly computerized and automated to western standards
A new era of production has begun in the world.
This period, overcome by the Si-bernation revolution, is the result of a mixture of computers and self-regulating automatic machines.
This technology is being utilized in Space studies and the World is stepping into a new era.
Turkey must enter this new era at the forefront.
We believe that new technology should be utilized at all levels of education.
On the other hand, the "technical education mobilization" will be immediately put into practice as an important tool on the road to the information society, and every citizen of appropriate age will be provided with a skill.
Turkey is not such a backward country that it is willing to buy the outdated technology products of developed or even developing countries at high prices.
Our country needs to rapidly enter the production of microcomputers and move to "computer-aided education".
The pillar of national education is the teacher.
The Nationalist Movement Party will give due importance to the teaching profession, the educator of our people, which is the basic element in achieving the goals in the Nationalist Movement Party Program, and all kinds of legal, financial and administrative arrangements will be made to make it an attractive and noble profession.
Higher Teachers' Schools, which have provided important services in the Turkish education system, should be reopened.
It would be beneficial to keep the "teacher training system" within universities or to expect it from a single source.
However, cooperation between MoNE and universities is necessary for the national interest.
The teacher should be supported financially.
This can be accomplished by giving teachers a separate personnel law or by granting them various social rights.
We want primary education to be compulsory and 8 years long, and for boarding schools to be expanded.
In secondary education, two types of programs can be followed, one "preparing for higher education" and the other "preparing for vocational and higher education".
In order for our students to be well trained in these two types of programs, schools will be supported with adequate teaching tools and equipment and existing laboratories will be made operational.
Measures will be taken to educate gifted and talented students in science high schools and brain drain will be prevented.
In our country, special education is provided for people with intellectual disabilities.
However, nothing has been thought of for the gifted.
For this reason, our program will have a separate application for children with superior intelligence and talent.
-In order to train the science and technical men needed by our country, science courses in secondary education will be taught in an applied science teaching method in order to get rid of the teaching method based on book information.
An understanding of religious service that embraces all Islamic denominations without contradicting the fundamental principles of Islam will be introduced.
It will be ensured that mosques and Quran courses will serve under the legal entity of the Foundation, and service and training programs will be prepared and implemented in cooperation with imams and muezzins and the Foundation management.
-At least one imam hatip high school will be opened in each district.
Imam Hatip high school teachers will be trained for a special service.
All kinds of coercive sanctions will be applied to abolish the Hajj quota.
Youth is the hope of our nation, the guarantee of our future and the guarantee of the continuity of our nation.
Youth is a source of dynamic, idealistic power.
Every young person will be given the opportunity for higher education.
Culture and art centers for young people will be established.
Sports centers with sufficient capacity will be established in every province and district.
-Trained in the most excellent way in terms of vocational education and training,
Special programs will be implemented to organize them in the direction of national goals and to prepare them for the future around national ideals by freeing them from the influence of all kinds of harmful ideologies.
Emphasis will be given to sports education in schools and public institutions and sports will be made widespread among the masses.
-Sports shall be made widespread in all settlements and the establishment of sports fields and facilities shall be carried out in a plan and discipline.
-Amateur sports shall be encouraged and outstanding athletes shall be supported by the state as a source of pride and pride.
Culture is a way of life, both written and unwritten, which has been filtered through history and has reached the present day, and which manifests beliefs, thoughts, feelings and behaviors, material and spiritual, both in the individual and in the society.
-From this point of view, our language, architecture, literature and art, folklore are the elements that constitute the basic values of our culture.
Turkish must be protected like the flag and the soil of the homeland.
We are against practices that take Turkish away from being the language of science.
The language of secondary and higher education should be Turkish.
The Nationalist Movement Party is in favor of teaching physics, chemistry, biology and mathematics courses in Turkish, which are currently taught in foreign languages in Anatolian High Schools.
-Research on Turkish history will be supported and history books will be published to appeal to various levels.
Turkish history will be viewed as an indivisible whole from its beginning.
-Our national culture will be transformed into a "dominant culture" with all segments of the society and will be reborn with its true identity in the mosaic of world culture and civilization.
"Turkish Culture and Civilizations Research Institute" will be established; "Turkish Culture and Civilizations Council" will be convened within this institute.
-As the Nationalist Movement Party, we say "art is for the nation".
As the producer of the values that make a nation a nation, the place of the artist within the idea system of Turkish nationalism is clear.
In our opinion, a first-class artist and a first-class work are as valuable as several universities.
With this understanding, the basic principles of our art policy are:- An organization working nationwide and in all segments of society to find talents.
-A nationwide art education organization.
-A widespread and strong incentive system to be established with the aim of encouraging the researcher ability of the grown artist.
-A material and spiritual environment that will ensure that the pinnacles of art produce works of maximum quality and quantity.
A SCIENTIFIC MINDSET WILL BE PROMOTED IN HIGHER EDUCATION AND THE DEVELOPMENT OF QUALIFIED AND SKILLED SCIENTISTS AND STUDENTS WILL BE ENSURED.
We are in favor of scientific autonomy at the university.
We see scientific autonomy as a vested right of scientists with personalities.
We are against pushing university youth towards anarchy and terror.
The first task of universities is to conduct scientific research and train researchers.
The second task is to realize an education in line with world standards.
-We oppose restrictions on the "scientific freedom" of scientists and researchers and the subordination of science to administrative authority.
We do not approve of the excessive powers given to rectors, deans and department heads in the administrative structure introduced by YÖK.
These powers are sometimes abused and hinder the development of a scholarly mindset and freedom of thought at the university.
Turkey has been left far behind in terms of science and technology.
For this reason, a national Science and Technology Policy should be determined without delay and all means should be mobilized to implement this policy.
When we create this army of scholars, Turkey will be able to compete even with advanced countries in science and technology.
The building blocks of the current era, known as the "Information Age" in science and the "Third Industrial Age" in industry, are advanced technologies such as microelectronics, fiber-optics, telecommunications, computers, artificial intelligence, robotics, laser technology, space technology, nuclear technology and bio-technology.
These technologies are creating a whole new industrial base for the economy, with many fundamental changes to enable a more rational use of resources;
In addition to creating new industries and service sectors, they are also building blocks with strategic effects that will revitalize and revitalize the missing ones, give them a vitality, and change the balances and priorities in the political, economic and military competitiveness of countries and in international trade.
For this reason, countries that will not be able to replace and utilize advanced technologies will have no political, economic and military influence by the end of this century.
It is therefore a struggle for a total leap forward.
In fact, both between political blocs and between big countries, there is a struggle that is intensifying every day as if there were a state of war.
-In this fierce race in the field of science and technology, the countries that have the education that can produce the most knowledgeable people and the most trained technological manpower will emerge victorious.
They will undoubtedly dominate the world to come and other worlds to be discovered.
Technology without science and economic development without technology is impossible.
Implement a "National Science and Technology Policy",
-Establish a responsible and authorized institutional structure at the highest level, namely a ministry of science and technology,
-It will be ensured that this structure provides direction in close cooperation with the major institutions that make and implement the country's economic and social development plans and with the research-intensive sectors,
-This ministry will need to pay particular attention to problems related to research in universities, and to take into account the mutual influence of scientific research and scientific education,
-The steps taken in the field of education and research take at least 10-15 years to bear fruit, so the investments to be made should be adopted within the framework of a national policy,
planning, implementing and monitoring domestic policies with a patient, rational and scientific approach,
-Necessary legislative amendments will be made in the field of intellectual and industrial rights, particularly the patent law,
-In order to reach a modern level in the field of science and technology, research budgets and infrastructures of universities shall be strengthened, sufficient number of researchers and technical staff shall be trained, technoparks and science sites shall be established jointly between universities and industrial organizations, and mutual exchange of information and personnel shall be ensured,
-Industry-University Cooperation Plans will be made to establish TÜBİTAK-Gebze Institute-type institutions within technical universities, and TÜBİTAK will be restructured.
Necessary arrangements, especially institutional and financial structuring, will be established in the University-State-Industry triangle in mutual cooperation.
1. On the one hand, higher education opportunities will be expanded and more people will be trained in more fields;
On the other hand, the quality of education will be increased and a higher quality manpower will be trained,
2. Two main sectors of industry
and agricultural research will boost economic development and accelerate social progress,
3. In order to be strong and maintain their independence in this field, where the channels for technology transfer and information acquisition are closed and slow to function, countries have to put their scientific capabilities on the defensive by innovating and rapidly putting them into practice.
4. As the world's population is expected to double in the next 20 years, in order to maintain the status quo, every existing building must be replaced as soon as possible.
This means ensuring the necessary development in building materials and technology without wasting available resources.
and the use of domestic labor.
That's why science and research,
contributing to the development of infrastructure and service sectors (energy, transportation, communication, construction, etc.)
and technological development in these sectors will be emphasized,
-The ratio of Research and Development expenditures to GDP is 0.33 percent.
2% by the year 2000 (2.8% in Sweden).
-The number of researchers per 10,000 working population (7) will be doubled to 15 as soon as possible (in France this number is 40)
-Turkey is ranked 40th in the world science rankings and will be raised to 22nd (Denmark is ranked 20th)
VII. FOREIGN POLICY RESTRUCTURING
-The basic principle guiding our foreign policy is the understanding of "Independence for nations, freedom for people".
The essence of our foreign policy is to "ensure the continuity of peace in our region and in the world".
The goal of our foreign policy is "leading Turkey, not a satellite".
"The 21st Century will be the Turkish Century" should be taken into consideration when determining Turkish foreign policy.
-Turkey must accept the fact that it is a "Central Country".
Turkey now has the power and potential to become a leading country with its growing population and economic power.
Turkey is in a position to be effective in the Balkans, Caucasus, Middle East and Central Asia by utilizing this potential.
If it cannot do this, it cannot survive in its old position.
Turkey's international economic and commercial relations should be used more effectively as a tool for its foreign policy.
-We reject understandings that consider foreign policy only within the scope of foreign trade and neglect the dimension of national history and therefore culture.
We are pacifists, but not compromisers.
We are aware that demands will be directed towards societies without demand.
We consider a US-Turkey relationship that does not take into account Turkish foreign policy and European realities to be inadequate.
-In our relations with Greece, we believe that a strong attitude, determination and de facto action should be taken to compel this country to abide by the Treaty of Lausanne and international agreements.
-Turkey cannot remain indifferent to developments in the Middle East.
Nor is it obliged to declare its indifference.
Thus, Turkey should continue to contribute to peace in the face of any complications that may arise.
-The Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus should be recognized by friendly and allied nations as soon as possible.
-The organizations to be established will be based on the elements of "peace, brotherhood and solidarity in the world" and will be supported by the concepts of trade, technology exchange and international cooperation.
In our opinion, Turkey is unable to properly utilize its geopolitical, economic and technological potential in international platforms.
-We see Turkishness as a matter of consciousness and embrace all our citizens without any discrimination in accordance with the understanding that "the whole world of Turkishness is a whole with its eastern and westerners" and that everyone who feels Turkish is a Turk.
-Foundation of the "Eurasian Economic Union" based on close economic ties;
In the political and military spheres, a political organization based on the voluntary cooperation of the independent Turkic Republics and on the basis of equality will be pioneered.
-Turkey's relations with Islamic countries will be given special value and weight.
Not only religious, historical and cultural elements, but also political and economic cooperation will be important in these relations.
In this framework, the Organization of the Islamic Conference will be strengthened.
On the other hand, we are in favor of the establishment of the "Organization for Defense Cooperation of Muslim Countries".
Turkey will pioneer the establishment of a "Defense Cooperation Organization" with sister Muslim countries.
The principle of meeting the needs of all Muslim countries, which are members of the Organization for Defense Cooperation of Muslim Countries, for defense weapons, tools and equipment from the member countries of the Organization shall be taken as a basis.
-Turkey will establish trade relations with Muslim countries in a Common Market approach, at least to the extent of its trade with the EU countries.
-Turkey has struggled for years to impose itself into the European system.
Today, Turkey is a member of most of the political and economic organizations in Europe.
However, despite 30 years of struggle, it has been left out of the European Union, which has an important role in Europe's economic development, and the European Security System that is likely to emerge in the near future.
-We believe that the nation should be consulted, especially on important issues such as EU membership.
-Turkey not only with the EU but also with other attractive countries like the US,
It must also organize its relations with the Russian Federation in a very balanced and harmonious manner.
It cannot make a unilateral choice and remain indifferent to other factors.
-Solutions should be sought with Greece on Cyprus, the Aegean Sea, islands, airspace, continental shelf and the status of Western Thrace Turks in a peaceful and mutual goodwill manner.
-Unfortunately, our country has not done enough to prevent the genocide in Bosnia-Herzegovina and to protect its territorial integrity.
-Turkey should develop its historical and cultural relations with Balkan countries such as Bosnia-Herzegovina, Albania and Macedonia in a multifaceted way and should consider the developments in these countries as related to Turkey's security.
-As the Nationalist Movement Party, we do not believe that a federal state will be established in Cyprus.
For this reason, we want the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus to be either restored to the status of an independent state that is a member of the United Nations as soon as possible, or to be partitioned and turned into an autonomous canton affiliated to Turkey.
