MAJOR TRANSFORMATION GOALS FOR A HOPEFUL FUTURE
The Republican People's Party has been behind every major transformation that has improved the living conditions of citizens in Turkey and made Turkey one of the most respected countries in the world.
It was the CHP, under the leadership of Mustafa Kemal Atatürk, that ensured our national independence and founded the Republic of Turkey with the great power it received from our people.
The modernization and development breakthrough led by the CHP is full of achievements unparalleled in world history.
The establishment of national sovereignty, equal voting rights, and equality between men and women were all steps taken thanks to the CHP.
The CHP carried out Turkey's first major industrialization drive, implemented the first major education reform and took the first steps towards building a modern social state.
The transition to multi-party life was the result of the CHP's strong will.
Above all, the CHP kept our country out of a great war that lasted for eight years, in which sixty million people lost their lives and the greatest suffering in history was experienced, and did not allow a single one of our citizens to suffer a single bloody nose.
Adopting the principle of "peace at home, peace in the world", the CHP has been the party that has opened the door to a hopeful future in every period when our citizens' hopes for the future diminished.
Having realized the greatest transformations in our country, CHP is aware of its historical responsibility in the current environment Turkey finds itself in.
Turkey is not doomed to remain a "developing country" or to be stuck in the second league of development.
With its rich human resources and historical background, Turkey is well-equipped to join the ranks of developed countries.
A new and comprehensive transformation is needed for Turkey to join the ranks of developed countries.
Human development is the main measure of success in the contemporary world.
Human development requires an economy that develops in harmony with nature, a democracy with strong institutions and rules, and a legal order that protects fundamental rights and freedoms.
We need an investment climate that fosters creative and innovative sectors and a welfare state where social services such as education, health and housing are of high quality and accessible.
CHP will strengthen the social state.
Rights-based distribution policies under CHP rule
and all working people, supported by free, quality social services, will be the mainstay of the economy.
People-centered economic policies will support production
and increase our competitiveness in the global knowledge economy.
Workers' rights will be guaranteed.
It will be ensured that the rules protecting worker health and safety are fully implemented.
The Turkish economy will not be allowed to grow at the expense of workers' lives.
Well-educated and creative young people who follow the world will be the driving force of the economy.
Economic policies will support entrepreneurship.
CHP will treat the country's industrialists as public servants of the economy and
create an investment environment that will enable Turkey to reach its goal of becoming an information society as soon as possible.
Under CHP rule, Turkey will move to its rightful place and become one of the developed countries.
The CHP will establish libertarian and pluralist democracy and put an end to the one-man rule that is being tried to be established in Turkey.
Under CHP rule, the parliamentary system will be protected and strengthened.
The transformation of the Parliament into an approval authority will end.
The judiciary will be independent and impartial, and
protecting human rights will be its main objective.
The rule of law will be re-established in all areas of life.
Civilianization will be expanded in all areas and all security institutions will be under the full control of civilian authority and the law.
Members' rights in political parties will be strengthened
and political financing will be made transparent.
Public institutions will be ensured to remain impartial in elections.
Public administration will be transparent and accountable, and the autonomy of specialized institutions in public administration will be preserved.
The fight against corruption will be among the priority objectives of public administration.
Protecting and promoting women's rights will be one of the main objectives of all public policies.
Under CHP rule, our young people will not be unemployed.
An education system and university structure that is libertarian, inquisitive and capable of raising the skilled manpower Turkey needs will be established.
Lifelong education opportunities will be expanded.
All those responsible for repressive policies and mass human rights violations and victimizations will be held to account within the legal system.
The foundation for lasting social peace and reconciliation will be laid by uncovering the truth.
The understanding and practices of impunity will be ended.
Secularism and freedom of belief will be protected and developed.
Secularism is a necessity for democracy and social peace.
The state will stand at an equal distance to all beliefs and respect all beliefs.
Freedom of religion and conscience will be fully guaranteed.
Religion and politics will be kept separate and religion will not be allowed to be used as a tool for politics.
Organizing will be supported.
Participatory institutions and rules will be established to ensure a strong civil society voice.
The powers and opportunities of local governments will be increased.
Ensure that as many decisions as possible are taken locally, at the level closest to the citizens who will be directly affected by that decision.
The Kurdish problem will be solved through first class democracy, more freedom and politics.
The solution will be achieved through a broad consensus and agreement in the Turkish Grand National Assembly, with the participation of all political parties.
In the steps to be taken, the binding rules of law will be observed and the public conscience will not be allowed to be injured.
Our cities will be transformed into safe, free, productive and environmentally friendly places that offer a high quality of life and support the creative classes.
Development policies will be sustainable and in harmony with nature, not in spite of it.
Investment in culture and arts will be recognized as one of the primary duties of the state.
Support will be provided to culture and arts initiatives in both the public and private sectors.
Any state that wants to take successful steps in all fields, especially culture, politics, economy and foreign policy, must be at peace with the world.
Any state that values people and its citizens and aims to be in the world's first league in human development must make progress in all of these areas.
Under CHP rule, foreign policy will be peaceful, secular, respectful of international law and realistic.
The European orientation of our foreign policy will certainly be maintained.
The main objective of foreign policy will be to enhance the security and welfare of the citizens of the Republic of Turkey.
In order to achieve the goals of the great transformation, a conciliatory and unifying language will be used in politics.
CHP unites, not divides; reconciles, not fights;
accountable to its citizens, not scolding its citizens, slapping its citizens, kicking those who fall to the ground
It will act with the understanding of a government that approaches everyone with democratic tolerance and bows to its citizens for service.
We are the party of those who carry the values of the Republic in their hearts and follow the path of modernization opened by Mustafa Kemal Atatürk.
We are the party of those who draw strength from the past, but always face the future.
We are for development, for a developed Turkey,
We are the party of those who fight for the "free man".
We are the party of those who say "neither oppressor nor oppressed; a humane and just order"
. We are the party of those who answer those who ask "is there no hope?" by saying "hope is in human beings".
We are the party of those working to build a country of hope instead of fear.
We are the Republican People's Party.
FREEDOM, RULE OF LAW AND DEMOCRACY
-31756731000
CHP supports the consolidation of freedoms, democracy and the rule of law in our country,
to realize social justice,
to ensure economic development
and sees it as the basic condition for achieving an information society.
Achieving these goals is only possible if democratic values and the rule of law are fully embedded at the institutional and moral level.
The biggest threat to democracy and the rule of law in Turkey is the AKP government, which is trying to monopolize politics and the state with the claim of acting on behalf of the national will.
The monopolization of power has led to the usurpation of checks and balances.
The AKP government has established a system that imposes lawlessness under the guise of legality, arbitrariness under the guise of governing the state, and rent sharing under the guise of development.
CHP has defended constitutional principles and institutions on the one hand and human rights and freedoms on the other with great conviction and courage against all these unlawfulness, violations and oppression.
Against an authoritarian regime in Turkey, there is a need for a new understanding of democracy that guarantees the rule of law, citizens' rights and institutional autonomy.
The separation of powers against an oppressive regime in Turkey,
There is a need for a new political understanding that will defend pluralism and a culture of peaceful coexistence.
Turkey has come to the point of resolutely embracing freedom and democracy against a government that oppresses individuals, society and constitutional institutions.
separation of powers and the rule of law
Executive oversight is an indispensable principle of democracy and the rule of law.
In order to safeguard this principle, the control of the Turkish Grand National Assembly (TBMM) over the executive must be complete and flawless.
The TGNA is an inalienable and irreducible reflection of the will of the nation.
The CHP will strengthen the powers of the Parliament vis-à-vis the executive and ensure that its checks and balances functions are fully realized.
CHP will not allow the national will to be sacrificed for the special interests of a caste, a circle of interests, a leader or a family.
It will put an end to domestic and foreign policy decisions concerning Turkey's future being taken behind closed doors and in secret negotiations, evading the Parliament.
CHP will strengthen the Parliament, the most important institution of our Republic and democracy, by upholding the essence of the principle of separation of powers.
CHP will prevent the transformation of the Parliament into a one-party parliament, the government into a one-man government and the state into a one-party state through amendments to the TBMM Rules of Procedure and the Law on Political Parties.
The electoral threshold, a remnant of the military coup, will be lowered, paving the way for political pluralism in Parliament.
It will be ensured that the Grand National Assembly is the main safeguard against the danger of monist power.
The CHP believes that a balanced and controlled democracy is only possible through political pluralism and institutional autonomy.
The CHP will put an end to the undermining of the legitimacy of the elections.
It will ensure free and fair elections in Turkey and prevent ballot box counts from becoming shady.
It will prevent the partisan use of public resources and personnel to influence election results.
CHP assures all citizens that all elections will be free and fair.
The most important force against absolute and arbitrary tendencies to power is the principle of the rule of law.
The rule of law, together with the right to a fair trial, prevents the law from being used as a weapon against citizens.
The CHP believes that the rule of law has been abolished by a government that deprives the judiciary of its autonomy and manipulates the Constitutional Court and the High Council of Judges and Prosecutors through political interference.
In the CHP government, all political pressures on the judiciary will be eliminated and full independence of the judiciary will be ensured.
In Turkey, the office of the President of the Republic is subject to abuses and excesses of authority at all levels.
The office of the President of the Republic has been deliberately politicized and has gone beyond the job description outlined in the Constitution.
The position and powers of the office of the President, deriving from the constitutional oath, were deliberately violated and the President's irresponsibility was abused.
The executive branch has exceeded the limits of its mandate and has been dragged into a position that violates the law.
Institutions that should be neutral have become symbols of partisanship.
CHP will strengthen the parliamentary system by making the necessary legal arrangements and ensuring the full implementation of the laws.
It will eliminate the extra-legal pressure exerted by the Presidency on the executive, the legislature and the judiciary.
FREEDOMS AND HUMAN RIGHTS
The CHP's priority is to restore the rule of law and fundamental rights, to end fear and establish a "Republic of Freedom".
The youth, women, laborers and all vulnerable segments of our country need to be defended against all kinds of oppressive and patriarchal power centers.
Free individuals who claim their rights are the cornerstone of a democratic and developed society.
CHP will empower our citizens and guarantee their freedoms by implementing the politics of rights and freedoms.
The CHP's "politics of rights and freedoms" forms the basis of its understanding of democratic citizenship.
The politics of rights and freedoms is the only form of politics that protects all citizens without discrimination against forms of ethnic, religious, class and sexual domination and envisages solidarity with disadvantaged groups.
CHP defines citizenship not as a symbolic legal status, but as a political opportunity that empowers individuals for democratic transformation and solidarity.
It defines citizenship as the democratic will to govern by people who choose solidarity for a peaceful and democratic future.
The CHP will not marginalize the identities of citizens from the past and will ensure that citizenship rights are carried to the highest level.
It will not allow arbitrary violence and torture against the right to life, bodily integrity, material and moral existence of citizens.
It will end the intimidation of dissenting groups and
eliminate all practices that undermine the dignity and privacy of individuals.
It will ensure the cessation of unlawful surveillance and profiling activities carried out by MIT, the Telecommunications Communication Presidency (TIB) and the security forces.
It will end the politics of fear and intimidation practiced on journalists, participants and students.
The CHP will ensure that Turkey, whose human rights record is deteriorating, becomes a democracy in line with EU principles and the ECHR Convention.
Impunity has become a principle of governance in Turkey.
In many areas ranging from rights violations to corruption, an administration that is not accountable before the judiciary has become dominant.
Security officers who violate rights should not be allowed to go unpunished.
CHP will ensure that all public practices are brought within legal limits and that violations do not go unpunished.
Preventing impunity is an indispensable precondition for restoring the rule of law in Turkey.
Adopting a social democratic worldview, the CHP argues that political freedom must be complemented by economic freedom to ensure the full freedom of the individual.
He argues that the understanding of democratic citizenship should be supported by the understanding of social citizenship.
CHP is determined to put an end to the current political government's policies of managing poverty instead of ending poverty through the establishment of a strong social state that secures the individual.
CHP is for a fair minimum wage for all citizens, including Family Insurance,
right to social security, right to health
and the right to education without discrimination.
It will take all necessary steps to ensure that children, women, the elderly, pensioners and the disabled enjoy social rights comprehensively.
Step by step, the CHP will implement the project of building a new "social democratic civilization" in Turkey.
LAW
Our understanding of secularism will be shaped in the light of our understanding of democracy.
The geography we live in and the developments in our country have clearly demonstrated that democracy cannot be guaranteed without secularism and secularism cannot be guaranteed without democracy.
Under CHP rule, freedom of religion and conscience will be guaranteed.
Politics and religion will be kept separate and the use of religion in politics will be opposed.
The state will stand at an equal distance to all beliefs and individual preferences, and the Presidency of Religious Affairs will be ensured to act in line with this principle.
The institution will have a pluralistic and inclusive structure and will be kept out of daily politics.
EQUAL CITIZENSHIP AND PLURALISM
Under the CHP government, citizens will be prevented from being discriminated against on the basis of their beliefs, ethnic origins and lifestyles, and the way will be paved for them to enjoy democratic rights at the individual level.
Identities will not be suppressed in any way, but will not be subject to abuse.
CHP will fight against political ghettoization that psychologically polarizes society and closes the channels of dialogue.
The CHP will respect all belief groups, ethnic identities and individual lifestyles in line with its democratic citizenship approach and "ethic of coexistence".
Under CHP rule, a language of peaceful dialogue will be adopted to leave prejudices and suspicions behind.
The CHP will also approach the Kurdish problem from the perspective of inclusive democratic citizenship.
The problem will be solved by a commission to be established in Parliament and by a national political consensus involving all parties in Parliament.
This process, which will bring democracy and peace to Turkey, will be carried out transparently and the solution to the problem will be sought without going beyond the legal framework.
CHP will not allow rights and freedoms to be negotiated for an authoritarian presidential system.
To this end, the electoral threshold will first be lowered.
Ambitious steps will be taken for the economic development of the region, reducing unemployment and combating poverty.
freedom of assembly and demonstration
In Turkey, especially in the aftermath of the Gezi movement, practices restricting the right to assembly and demonstration have intensified.
Our citizens have been reduced to the status of "reasonable suspects" and any social post has been turned into potential evidence of a crime.
Multifaceted pressure has been exerted on workers, students and artists.
Turkey has become a state of repression and profiling, where police and intelligence officers use their powers arbitrarily and excessively.
Mass detentions have become commonplace, unlawful arrests have become punishment.
Excessive use of force, ill-treatment and insults have become commonplace.
CHP will take all necessary legal and administrative measures to ensure that the freedom of assembly and demonstration of our citizens reaches the level of advanced democracies.
FREE AND POLYPHONIC MEDIA
Freedom of expression was most severely curtailed in the media and the Internet.
Contrary to the developments in the civilized world, Turkey has become a country that censors the media and the Internet, arrests journalists and intimidates dissenting views.
Internet bans are an important indication that the government does not believe in freedom of expression and free public space.
CHP will first and foremost protect the right of the press to report freely and the right of citizens to be informed from different sources.
The media and the Internet will be rescued from the massive blackout and all kinds of information will be brought to light.
RTÜK, TRT and the media organizations transferred to the SDIF have become tools of biased propaganda.
Turkey, which should be one of the leading countries of the information society and knowledge economy with its young and educated population, has been transformed into a country of censorship and investigations under the current government.
CHP will take all legal and financial measures to create an independent, free and pluralistic media and protect citizens' right to be informed from different sources.
ORGANIZED SOCIETY
In our country, civil society is under pressure from the political power.
Civil society, which should be a space for organized pluralism, is rapidly being brought under the power of the government and is being made monophonic.
The principle of democratic pluralism is seen as a threat by the government.
Trade unions, professional chambers and employers' associations are forced to act close to the government.
Academics, writers and artists are scapegoated at every opportunity.
The government monopolistically and nepotistically seeks to create its own civil society, marginalizing and forcing organizations that do not act in concert with it to disappear.
However, for democracy to take root in a country, political power must be checked and balanced by a strong civil society.
CHP will make all necessary arrangements to develop organized society and pluralism, which are the foundation and source of wealth of a democratic society.
INFORMATION SOCIETY AND DEMOCRACY
CHP believes that transformation based on technology and knowledge will strengthen our democracy as much as a strong democracy will contribute to the transition to an information society.
Our citizens will be able to participate more effectively in decision-making processes by utilizing the opportunities provided by the information age at the highest level.
In the CHP government, more investment will be made in people to ensure the transition to an information society, and more opportunities will be provided for our citizens to realize themselves.
With the reorganization of the relationship between the state and citizens within this framework, all our citizens will be able to enjoy their democratic rights to the fullest.
Increased access to information will make it possible for public services to reach a wider audience and will also make
political processes increasingly transparent.
LIBERAL CONSTITUTION FOR LIBERAL DEMOCRACY
CHP argues that a new constitution that expands and protects the freedoms of all citizens is necessary for the development of liberal democracy and social peace.
The new constitution should be based on democracy, the rule of law, social justice and respect for human rights, and should embrace the whole society.
The CHP's goal is to draft a process-based constitution based on social consensus and broad agreement among political parties.
REPUBLIC OF RIGHTS AND FREEDOMS
We will prioritize securing citizens' right to life.
We will abolish all laws and practices that allow arbitrary violence, persecution and torture, and violations of citizens' dignity.
We will provide legal guarantees for the free exercise of the right to peaceful assembly and demonstration.
We will prevent citizens who exercise this right from being seen as "reasonable suspects" by the state.
We will strengthen organized society, which is an indispensable element of libertarian democracy and checks and balances.
We will develop all political, social and cultural rights with a pluralist understanding and together with society.
STRENGTHENED PARLIAMENTARY SYSTEM
we will bring activity to the parliament
We will take care to ensure that draft laws and proposals are adopted after adequate debate in the legislature and in the national public opinion.
We will exceptionalize the use of Decree Laws that usurp the will of the Parliament.
We will put an end to the non-transparent "omnibus law" practice that disrupts the functioning of the legislative process.
We will fight against the understanding that subordinates the legislature to the executive and puts a mortgage on the will of MPs.
We will increase the number and influence of parliamentary commissions and bring the problems of different segments of society directly to the Parliament.
TBMM'S POWER TO OVERSEE THE EXECUTIVE
We will strengthen the parliament's oversight function by diversifying investigative commissions.
We will establish a "Final Accounts Commission" in the Parliament, chaired by the main opposition.
We will restore the autonomy of the Court of Accounts and ensure that the reports of the Court of Accounts are submitted to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey completely and regularly.
We will secure the budgetary rights of the Parliament and strengthen its fiscal oversight functions.
POLITICAL PARTY SYSTEM
we will ensure fairness in representation
We will change the antidemocratic laws from the September 12 regime, especially the election laws and the law on political parties.
We will ensure that the threshold does not exceed 5% in general elections.
We will establish universal rules, autonomous committees and transparent procedures for free and fair elections.
We will ensure that our citizens abroad are represented by 10 deputies, one deputy for every 300,000 voters.
We will lift the ban on civil servants becoming members of political parties.
we will guarantee fair competition between parties
We will make all necessary institutional and legal arrangements to ensure fair elections.
We will ensure that electoral fraud is effectively punished.
We will make the financing of politics transparent and limit spending that impedes fair competition.
We will prevent the use of public resources to favor the ruling party in elections.
We will establish impartial and independent mechanisms to ensure the security of ballot boxes and data in elections.
We will prevent public officials from being influenced.
honest and participatory politics
We will enact a Political Ethics Law.
We will amend the Political Parties Law to strengthen internal party democracy.
We will strengthen the rights of members in political parties.
We will prevent citizens without financial means from being excluded from the race for democracy.
RIGHT TO SECURITY
WE WILL MAKE LEGAL REGULATIONS PROTECTING CITIZENS
We will democratize the Law on the Duties and Powers of the Police.
We will make legal arrangements to put an end to arbitrary practices, disproportionate violence and the use of pepper spray by law enforcement forces.
We will prevent law enforcement officers from using weapons in a way that disregards the fundamental human rights of citizens.
We will not allow the crime of resisting and insulting a public official to be abused in a way that violates the rights of citizens.
we will end impunity
We will eliminate impunity as an official state policy.
We will not allow public officials to escape judicial scrutiny.
We will ensure that law enforcement officers who abuse their duties can be prosecuted without the permission of the governor.
We will open the way for lawsuits against senior officials who authorized the disproportionate use of force.
We will recourse the compensation awarded by the ECtHR to the public officials who committed ill-treatment.
We will broaden the definition of hate crimes and prevent them from expiring and being converted into fines.
PRIVACY OF PRIVATE LIFE
We will make the state transparent, not the lives of citizens.
We will put an end to unjustified interference in public and private life by the police and intelligence services.
We will prevent access to personal data without a judge's decision and destroy personal data obtained in this way with a judicial decision.
We will introduce legal sanctions for hate crimes committed by public officials.
We will adopt the Law on the Protection of Personal Data as soon as possible within the framework of democratic principles, including the "right to be forgotten".
We will restructure the TIB according to the principle of protection of private life and make it transparent.
LEGAL RESPONSIBILITY OF INTELLIGENCE AGENCIES
We will put an end to the MIT Law granting absolute immunity to public officials.
We will prevent the transformation of MIT into an intelligence and conspiracy tool of a personalized power.
We will remove the administrative authorization required for the prosecution of the undersecretary of the National Intelligence Organization (MİT) from the President of the Republic and give the authority to the Prime Minister.
We will narrow the scope of the concept of "state secret" and prevent its misuse.
FREE PEOPLE
We will put an end to the understanding that seeks to intimidate society through fear, oppression and targeting.
We will eliminate all mechanisms that expose citizens to arbitrary, unlawful and despotic practices in their private and public lives.
We will prevent political interventions that seek to stifle citizens' lifestyles, individual preferences and tendencies.
We will not allow unlawful pressure and intimidation to silence critical and dissenting views.
we will put an end to arbitrary arrests and detentions
We will end the unlawful use of detention, which has turned into a practice of punishment and intimidation.
We will put an end to arbitrary detentions to prevent and intimidate different segments of society from exercising their democratic rights.
We will bring legal restrictions on the length and process of detention and custody in line with EU standards as soon as possible.
RULE OF LAW AND JUDICIAL REFORM
INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS
We will elect the members of the Constitutional Court, the Court of Cassation and the Council of State from among the candidates nominated by the higher judiciary and with a qualified majority and broad consensus in the Turkish Grand National Assembly.
We will establish a Judicial Police under the Ministry of Justice.
We will abolish the Criminal Judgeships of Peace, which have turned into State Security Courts (DGM).
We will ensure that the Forensic Medicine Institution works autonomously, fast and qualified, free from political pressure.
We will establish a National Human Rights Oversight Body in line with UN standards, with representation from human rights NGOs.
LEGAL REGULATIONS AND FAIR TRIAL
We will harmonize all laws with the requirements of everyday life.
We will ensure that the crime of terrorism is defined in law in accordance with democratic principles and without room for interpretation to prevent arbitrary accusations.
We will prevent the violation of prisoners' rights in prisons based on abstract and open-ended regulations.
We will end the practice of secret witnesses.
We will prevent cases from being moved to other cities on arbitrary grounds.
enforcement of court decisions
Within the framework of the right to a fair trial, we will apply the law and court decisions without exception and equally for all.
We will prevent the restriction of citizens' fundamental rights and freedoms through unjustified judicial decisions.
We will ensure that judicial decisions are transparent and accessible electronically.
We will restore judicial review of all judicial decisions in accordance with the principle of fair judgment.
We will ensure that past decisions of the Criminal Judgeships of Peace are reviewed in accordance with the principle of fair judgment.
restructuring of the HSYK
We will divide the HSYK into the High Council of Judges and the High Council of Prosecutors.
We will remove the Minister of Justice and the Undersecretary of the Ministry from these boards and end the tutelage and patronage of the political power over judges and prosecutors.
We will open the decisions of the High Council of Judges and the High Council of Prosecutors, especially regarding the personal rights of judges and prosecutors, to judicial review.
We will introduce gender quotas to increase the representation of women in the elections for the High Council of Judges and the High Council of Prosecutors.
We will prevent Ministry of Justice bureaucrats from abusing their privileged position in the election of representatives.
independence of judges and prosecutors
We will introduce objective criteria for the entry of judges and prosecutors into the profession, and we will take merit as a basis.
We will make judges and prosecutors administratively independent from the Ministry of Justice.
We will establish an appointment and transfer system that will guarantee the independence and impartiality of judges.
We will put an end to exile practices.
IMPARTIAL PRESIDENT
We will re-establish a non-partisan presidential model with symbolic powers and limited influence over the executive and legislature.
We will restrict the President's powers in judicial and other high-level bureaucracy appointments.
We will make the presidential budget modest and accountable in line with constitutional definitions.
We will make legal arrangements to prevent the use of the slush fund arbitrarily and for political purposes.
We will abolish laws that make it possible to use the crime of insulting the President to intimidate citizens.
PLURALIST MEDIA, FREE INTERNET
we will free the media from the control of politics
We will prevent media outlets transferred to the SDIF from being controlled by the government and turned into propaganda tools.
We will put an end to the transfer of public funds to newspapers and televisions close to the government through the SDIF.
We will remove TRT from being a political tool of the government and make it administratively and financially autonomous.
We will restructure RTÜK according to democratic principles in terms of institutional framework, member composition and legislation.
We will prevent RTÜK from using program suspensions and fines as a tool of pressure and censorship on the media.
WE WILL REMOVE PRESSURES ON MEDIA ORGANIZATIONS AND WORKERS
We will end partisan attacks and arbitrary punishments against media outlets and their members.
We will put an end to practices such as dismissals, police raids, unlawful trials, censorship and defamation lawsuits that writers and journalists are subjected to.
We will remove legal obstacles to unionization of media workers.
We will provide job security for media workers.
We will support local media organizations.
We will end political pressure on local media.
we will secure the right to access information
We will legally guarantee citizens' right to information.
We will ensure the diversity of information sources through measures to prevent national and local monopolization.
We will restrict court-ordered broadcast bans in a way that respects citizens' right to access information.
we will liberalize the use of the internet and social media
We will harmonize all laws on the internet with international conventions to which we are a party.
We will abolish the authority of authorities other than the courts to block access.
We will define the catalog crimes that form the basis for the bans in a way that leaves no room for interpretation and narrow the scope of these crimes.
We will put an end to social media monitoring and plugging by the Interior Ministry decree and the police.
We will not allow politicians to usurp citizens' right to criticize through arbitrary compensation lawsuits targeting online posts.
RECONCILIATION AND UNIFICATION, NOT DIVISION AND POLARIZATION
We will base state administration on the common denominator of citizenship of the Republic of Turkey without discriminating between languages, cultures, beliefs and lifestyles.
We will act with an egalitarian approach in public services and respect differences.
We will develop measures to make it easier for citizens of different ethnic backgrounds to learn and preserve their language and culture.
We will eliminate politics based on fear and suspicion and establish a culture of trust, dialogue and mutual understanding.
By eliminating the polarizing understanding, we will establish social peace.
We will decisively fight against all discrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity through legislation and sanctions.
We will put an end to the approach that sees citizens, especially young people, as "usual suspects" and seeks to intimidate and interfere in their lifestyles.
we will guarantee coexistence with the principle of secularism
We will guarantee the freedom of belief and worship of all our citizens regardless of religion, sect and belief.
We will make sure that religion and politics are kept separate and religion is not used as a tool for politics.
We will restructure the Presidency of Religious Affairs to stand at an equal distance to all beliefs.
Within the framework of universal human rights principles, we will remove the obstacles preventing all citizens of different religions and beliefs from opening places of worship.
We will give Cemevis legal status like other places of worship.
We will abolish compulsory religion classes.
We will bring a pluralistic content to these courses and make them elective.
We will take legal action against discrimination and hate crimes based on religion and belief.
KURD PROBLEM
We will end all forms of violence and repression and solve the problem through negotiation and politics.
We will ensure that the place of solution of the Kurdish problem is the Grand National Assembly of Turkey.
We will bring together all political parties represented in the Turkish Grand National Assembly for a solution and we will carry out the process with a broad social consensus.
We will ensure that all attempts to resolve the problem are transparent and lawful.
We will establish a parliamentary commission to investigate all unsolved murders, torture and rights violations, especially the events in Diyarbakır Prison and the Uludere massacre.
we will put an end to bans
We will end language bans in elections and politics.
We will abolish provisions in the Turkish Penal Code and the Anti-Terror Law that restrict freedom of expression.
We will offer mother tongue education to all citizens who demand it.
We will clear the mined lands on the Syrian border and distribute them to poor villagers for agricultural use.
We will abolish the village guard system and provide public employment for village guards.
We will allow the old names of renamed settlements to be used together with their new names.
we will heal the wounds of the past
We will abolish the statute of limitations on unsolved murders.
We will redress the grievances of citizens whose villages were evacuated and pave the way for their return to their villages.
We will make Dersim archives accessible to historians.
We will make the Madımak Hotel a Museum of Tolerance.
We will transform Diyarbakır Prison into a Museum of Human Rights and Democracy.
ORGANIZED SOCIETY, DEMOCRATIC POLITICS
LEGAL REGULATIONS
We will secure the fundamental constitutional right to organize and remove all anti-democratic obstacles to an organized society.
We will revise the Law on Associations and eliminate bureaucratic obstacles that restrict and complicate freedom of association.
We will expand trade union rights and secure them legally.
CIVIL SOCIETY
We will end political pressure on civil society.
We will financially strengthen public interest civil society organizations and ensure their autonomy.
We will involve all segments of society, professional chambers, environmental, youth and women's organizations in decision-making processes at national and local levels.
We will end the pressure on professional organizations.
We will prepare the laws of professional organizations with the participation of stakeholders in a way that strengthens the autonomy of the institutions.
We will protect the financial rights and audit powers of professional organizations.
EQUALITY BETWEEN MEN AND WOMEN
We will make the necessary legal arrangements to ensure equality between women and men in all areas of life.
We will fight against oppressive patriarchy with determination.
We will act with a "zero tolerance" approach against violence against women and will resolutely implement the necessary legal sanctions.
We will take all necessary measures to end the early marriage of girls.
POLITICAL PRESSURE ON THE BUSINESS WORLD
We will manage the economy in accordance with the principles of democracy and transparency, and we will uphold the rule of law.
We will autonomize all supreme boards related to the world of economy and protect them from interference by the political power.
We will end the intimidation of different capital groups with unfair tax penalties.
We will ensure that tax audits are conducted within the framework of predictability and legal security criteria.
JOB-CREATING, INCLUSIVE ECONOMY
57156731000
The state is for citizens.
CHP aims for a Turkey where every citizen will live happily, peacefully and comfortably
. Our country is a place where everyone who wants to work can find a job,
every citizen earns an income at a level that allows them to live humanely
The country must achieve an economic order in which everyone's basic needs are under the guarantee of the social state.
CHP is determined to make a fundamental breakthrough in the economy and implement a strong economic development program to establish a just order in our country.
CHP is a platform where citizens can invest with confidence,
that he can be paid for his labor,
every citizen has unhindered access to skills, knowledge and technology
and is determined to build a Turkey that will be free not only politically but also economically
.
In the time and geography we are living in, our country has great opportunities as well as important challenges to overcome.
The CHP's basic economic vision is to move our country from 69th place in the human development index to among the top 20 countries in the next 20 years.
Our citizens are unhappy and pessimistic today because of the mismanagement of the economy.
With economic policies aiming to save the day, consisting of instant measures, far from transparency and reality, Turkey has been trapped behind the times.
CHP is to dispel this pessimism,
job creation,
It aspires to power to establish a Turkey that gives hope to everyone by enriching itself with inclusive growth.
The CHP's economic program will carry Turkey into the 21st century and ensure a happy future for our citizens.
The CHP's economic program takes a holistic approach to economic policies.
It prioritizes the complementarity of economic policies and embodies the will for realistic and decisive reform, not for show.
CHP will manage the economy with a development approach that puts investment in people at its center.
This development approach targets high value-added, innovation-based and competitive production.
This goal includes transforming to a green economy and ensuring sustainability against global warming and environmental pollution.
Unlike neoliberalism, it is the product of an approach in which the market is well and fairly regulated and the public has a strong supporting role.
Within the framework of these objectives, CHP economic policies are built on four main axes.
The first axis consists of policies to ensure that economic development and growth is spread to all segments of society, that growth embraces everyone and that no one is excluded from the welfare created.
The second axis consists of policies that increase Turkey's competitiveness in the world arena.
Policies that will contribute to the productive investments, skilled labor force and productivity growth needed for a competitive economy are the basis of this axis.
The third axis consists of policies that strengthen democracy, the rule of law, transparency and accountability of the state.
Open to the world,
Strengthening the EU membership perspective,
By establishing the rule of law and modern democracy that is accountable to its citizens
confidence and business climate in the economy will be strengthened.
The fourth axis of the CHP's economic strategy includes policies committed to maintaining social and environmental balance along with economic stability.
In this framework, the CHP proposes a two-stage economic program.
The first includes policies that will have an immediate impact and the second includes policies that will have an impact in the medium and long term.
In the first hundred days of its rule, the CHP will implement policies that will boost investment, create
jobs for more people in Turkey
and significantly increase the incomes of all citizens.
Simultaneously, the education and technology drive will ensure a growth that will guarantee that our children will live in a prosperous country.
In the first hundred days of the CHP government, measures will be taken to spread prosperity to the people and Turkey will become an investable country again.
The political and economic stability necessary to achieve this goal will be restored as soon as possible.
An effective incentive and support program will provide dynamism to the private sector.
The state will become transparent, and the public sector's supervisory and regulatory activities will be freed from political influence, ensuring the reliability of the business environment.
Fair regulation will lead to a more efficient and balanced functioning of the market mechanism.
The CHP's economic program will support the physical capital investments generated by positive changes in the business climate with an increase in financial capital and the enrichment of human resources.
This will free our industry from the intermediate stages in the global value chain where it is trapped.
The share of high-tech, high value-added goods in production and exports will increase.
The CHP's development plan will increase the value and quality of Turkey's exports by enabling Turkey to make breakthroughs in the pre- and post-production stages of the global value chain.
This transformation in production will be achieved through holistic policies for agriculture,
will enable the balanced development of industry, services and construction sectors.
By ensuring that the construction sector is not seen only as a speculative rent-seeker and that it is based on a healthy foundation, the flight from industry will come to an end.
Increased physical investment is essential for solving labor market problems.
However, CHP is aware that Turkey's employment problem is not only a problem of investment climate.
CHP's economic program aims to increase investment to boost employment and improve competitiveness
and argues that an effective education reform is necessary.
An increase in physical investment will contribute positively to the productivity of the labor force, leading to a natural increase in wages.
Labor force participation will increase by removing barriers for young people and women who want to work but whose freedom to work is restricted.
The productivity gains from investing in people and the employment generated by youth and women's participation in the labor force will also improve the quality of growth.
Our education reform will strengthen the human resources of the workforce and raise average wages across the country.
With an effective minimum wage policy in CHP government, income injustice will be eliminated,
wages will be increased across the board
and the share of minimum wage workers in total employment will be rapidly reduced by raising the quality of the labor force.
The CHP's education drive will not only maximize the use of existing technologies, but also enable young people to create new ones.
This will increase high value-added production in agriculture, industry and services sectors.
CHP will solve social problems with an innovative development drive,
increase our global competitiveness in every field and raise the welfare level of our citizens.
In the 21st century, the main source of production is knowledge.
Technology and information infrastructure are needed for knowledge to be used and transformed into production.
Labor and enterprise are the key elements to transform knowledge and technology into production.
CHP's economic program prioritizes investing in knowledge, knowledge infrastructure and people.
With investments in these areas and an economic model based on dynamic manpower, Turkey will be at the forefront of the world league.
This economic approach, which prioritizes the use of information, technology and IT infrastructure by the whole society, will enable Turkey to become one of the leading countries in the world in the social knowledge economy.
Under AKP rule, our citizens have been dispossessed through debt.
The CHP's economic program will provide our citizens with information and knowledge, while sharing physical capital.
Spreading capital to the grassroots and connecting our people with knowledge will enable a new industrial revolution.
In the CHP government, Turkey's catching up with the information age and transforming capital into knowledge-based capital will be encouraged by the public sector.
With this approach, CHP's economic program aims to end poverty, not manage it.
Turkey has been condemned to a spiral of poverty, unemployment and unhappiness by the AKP's economic policies.
This is not because our economic resources are limited, but because the economy is not managed effectively.
For the CHP, the economy is not just about managing limited resources.
Rational economic management is based on exploring economic potential and using it efficiently and sustainably for the benefit of society.
Turkey has the potential to rapidly transition to a knowledge economy and compete internationally.
The CHP's economic program will realize this potential and provide a better life for everyone in the Turkey of the future by solving the resource problem.
A SOCIETY WITH A HIGH LEVEL OF PROSPERITY
04381500
PEOPLE-CENTERED DEVELOPMENT
We will act with a people-oriented development approach.
In economic development, we will aim not only for enrichment but also for human development.
We will end income inequalities.
We will fight unemployment effectively and create jobs for all our citizens.
We will create skilled jobs and a skilled workforce.
We will provide opportunities for all our citizens, especially young people and women, to participate in economic life and production.
AN ECONOMY THAT PRODUCES AND GROWS WITH KNOWLEDGE AND TECHNOLOGY
We will be based on an economy model that produces, not just consumes.
We will ensure Turkey's transition from a labor-intensive economy to a productive and knowledge-intensive economy.
We will transform Turkey from a mere production and logistics base into a base of advanced production and gradual technological development that creates its own brands.
We will ensure that technological development improves the quality of life of all segments of society.
THE TURKEY OF THE FUTURE:
CHP ECONOMIC PROGRAM TARGETS FOR THE FIRST 20 YEARS
By increasing the growth of our production efficiency, we will raise the average annual growth rate to 6%.
We will take Turkey to the top 20 in the human development index.
We will create employment opportunities for at least 1 million people a year by reviving a productive economy.
We will reduce unemployment below 5%.
We will reduce inflation to below 4%.
We will raise the ratio of domestic savings and investments to GDP to 30 percent and eliminate the chronic current account deficit problem.
STABLE AND INCLUSIVE GROWTH WITH A STRONG WELFARE STATE
We will not leave the solution to the problems of poverty, unemployment, informality, the quality of labor and low wages to the market alone.
We will ensure that the state fulfills its responsibilities in solving these problems.
We will design and implement the growth strategy in light of the principles of production, income distribution, social inclusion and sustainability.
In addition to new technology areas, we will develop high value-added products and activities in traditional production sectors.
We will increase production capacities through local and foreign direct investments.
We will pursue an investment-oriented employment and growth strategy that is open to foreign markets but resilient to financial fluctuations.
A STATE APPROACH THAT SUPPORTS ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
We will make the role of the public sector in development more effective, consistent and citizen-oriented.
We will ensure that the state facilitates and supports employment and competition.
In areas where the private sector does not operate, we will put the public sector in a leading position to eliminate regional development and income disparities.
We will implement reforms to ensure efficiency, transparency and coordination among institutions in public investments.
RULE OF LAW AND PREDICTABILITY IN ECONOMIC GOVERNANCE
LEGAL REGULATIONS
We will make arrangements that will remove the tax audit from being a political tool of the government.
We will bring the Public Procurement Law in line with EU standards and include all public institutions within the scope of the Law.
Through legislative changes, we will institutionalize oversight of public economic activities and ensure transparency and accountability.
We will secure the Parliament's right to budget and activate its control over the executive.
INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS
We will transform the Economic and Social Council into the "Council for Economy, Society and Environment" and ensure its regular meetings.
We will make the Revenue Administration independent and ensure that it stands at an equal distance to all taxpayers.
We will establish an Accounts Commission, chaired by the main opposition party, to effectively audit the budget.
We will make it compulsory for the strategic plan and performance indicators to be determined by the public administration to be included in the budgets of organizations.
We will ensure that the Court of Accounts determines the financial status of extra-budgetary institutions, especially TOKİ and public banks.
We will determine the financial deficit realistically in line with the Court of Accounts reports.
EFFECTIVE FISCAL POLICY
We will pay attention to the sustainability of public debt and implement a sound fiscal policy.
We will hold citizens accountable for where their taxes are spent.
We will fight against informality and minimize tax losses and evasion.
We will differentiate income tax tariffs and rates, and tax everyone according to their ability.
With a medium-term strategy plan, we will establish a structure based on direct taxes.
We will make the tax system fairer and increase the competitiveness of the economy.
MONETARY POLICY TO END THE COST OF LIVING
We will make the Central Bank independent from arbitrary interventions and restore the institution's reputation.
We will re-establish the fundamental principle of monetary policy as price stability and disinflation.
We will activate inflation targeting and increase transparency in monetary policy.
We will ensure that the Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) meets frequently enough to ensure good governance in the fight against inflation.
FINANCIAL STABILITY
We will ensure the effective functioning of the Financial Stability Committee.
We will allow the real sector to be represented in this Committee.
We will entrust the task of ensuring financial stability to the BRSA and the SDIF.
We will ensure that these institutions work in coordination with the Central Bank.
We will prevent politics from becoming an obstacle to financial stability by establishing the independence of public institutions that regulate and supervise the financial system.
We will protect the real economy from the macro and individual financial institution risks of the financial system.
A GROWTH MODEL THAT CREATES JOBS AND FACILITATES INVESTMENT
03175000
EFFECTIVE POLICIES FOR EMPLOYMENT
We will provide the climate for investments that will lead to permanent increases in employment.
We will create employment by effectively using passive and active labor policies.
We will reduce public burdens on employment.
We will increase the employment opportunities for women, youth and disabled citizens in public services.
We will make public sector employment a driver of inclusive growth.
We will prioritize upskilling the workforce.
In the agriculture, industry and services sectors, we will prevent the transformation of production from leading to job losses.
We will ensure that matches between job seekers and job opportunities are made quickly and efficiently.
FAVORABLE CLIMATE FOR INVESTMENTS
INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS
By improving the business environment, we will ensure that investments increase rapidly.
We will secure investments by restoring the institutional reputation of independent supervisory and regulatory agencies.
We will take steps to facilitate the allocation of investment space and remove bureaucratic obstacles.
In order to improve the investment climate, we will reduce the burdens of "market entry and exit" and simplify and speed up transactions.
rational incentive systems for investments
With a rational incentive system, we will support knowledge-intensive sectors and increase the participation of women and youth in the labor force.
We will implement a high value-added production strategy that will increase environmental sensitivity and energy efficiency.
We will implement a simplified incentive program that is target-oriented and prioritizes SMEs.
We will ensure that the new incentive and support program is accessible from a single point on the Internet.
We will increase the effectiveness of the incentive system by ensuring that the experts of the SME Support Offices to be established within the Development Agencies inform SMEs about the incentive system from their establishment.
We will adopt a performance and project-oriented incentive distribution approach.
We will identify enterprises with the potential to scale up through technical studies to be conducted in the first 100 days and design special incentive programs for these enterprises.
COMPANIES AND SMES
facilitating access to financing
We will provide SMEs with interest-free business loans equal to the amount of taxes and insurance premiums they pay.
We will enable SMEs to access capital markets, diversify financing methods and ensure a healthier structure.
We will enable the use of the Credit Guarantee Fund and increase its capital.
We will ensure that credit support to SMEs is in line with production transformation strategies.
We will provide special incentives for high-tech investments, green projects, and company loans to women entrepreneurs and young entrepreneurs.
We will support the establishment and expansion of venture capital companies by making the necessary legal arrangements.
We will develop a "fund of funds" with public participation and leadership to provide venture financing.
SMES AND COMPANIES TO BENEFIT FROM PUBLIC SAVINGS
We will not privatize Halkbank, we will transform it into a specialized bank for SMEs and tradesmen.
We will restructure the Development Bank into the State Investment Bank to cater specifically to local needs and the needs of SMEs.
We will ensure that the State Investment Bank provides project finance advisory services in addition to financing.
We will increase the function and effectiveness of Turk Eximbank for export-oriented SMEs and diversify the instruments it uses.
With the "Teknobank" we will establish, we will increase the effectiveness of technology development zones and
support innovation, technology investments and adaptation, new technology-based products and e-commerce activities.
PUBLIC POLICIES SUPPORTING INDUSTRY
We will increase the competitiveness of the manufacturing industry by reducing the tax burden on energy, transportation and communication costs.
In public procurement, within the framework of international law, we will prioritize production with domestic intermediate goods.
In public procurement, we will make arrangements to use 15% of procurement budgets for purchases from companies founded by women entrepreneurs and young entrepreneurs, taking into account public procurement legislation.
INCREASING THE GLOBAL COMPETITIVENESS OF COMPANIES AND ENTERPRISES
We will accelerate the new technology-based transformation of SMEs and enable them to develop technology-intensive products and production processes.
We will prevent informality and realize a tax reform to increase competitiveness.
We will remove incentives for sectors with low added value and difficult to renew.
We will encourage mergers and acquisitions.
This will enable the exploitation of scale and scope opportunities and the sharing of technological capabilities.
We will ensure that the Customs Union is deepened and renegotiated in a way that increases prosperity for our country.
We will accelerate negotiations with the EU to play an active role in the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Treaty (TTIP) talks.
TRANSITION OF COMPANIES TO HIGH VALUE-ADDED PRODUCTION STAGES IN THE VALUE CHAIN
We will ensure that R&D activities are production-oriented and include the design process.
We will include product and process design within the scope of R&D activities.
We will make the Turkish Design Advisory Council more effective.
We will rigorously implement the Design Strategy Document.
We will establish the "Design Institute of Turkey" to carry out design policies within the scope of this strategy.
DIRECT POLICIES FOR EMPLOYMENT
-31754381500
DIRECT MEASURES TO INCREASE REVENUES
We will abolish income tax on minimum wage.
We will raise the minimum wage to 1500 TL.
We will ensure that the sum of inflation and welfare increase share is taken into account in determining the minimum wage increase.
LABOR FORCE AND EMPLOYMENT
PASSIVE LABOR POLICIES
- We will ease the conditions for benefiting from the Unemployment Fund by half.
We will ensure that the Unemployment Insurance Fund is used for its intended purpose.
We will autonomize the management of the Unemployment Fund and increase the representation of social partners in the fund management.
We will ensure that the Unemployment Fund is audited transparently and effectively.
ACTIVE WORKFORCE POLICIES
In cooperation with I-Kur and the Vocational Qualifications Authority, we will implement a long-term training program to provide skills to unskilled workers.
Under the program, we will gradually place 800,000 unemployed citizens in 9-12 month training programs where they will be paid a minimum wage.
For women and men between the ages of 18-29 who are newly hired after completing the program, we will provide public support for employer insurance premiums for 4 years; for men over the age of 29, we will provide public support for 3 years.
We will shape the diversity of Specialized Vocational Training Centers (UMEM) certificate programs in line with the needs of employers and the labor market, as well as our new growth strategy.
We will align the overall human capital accumulation of the workforce with our new growth strategy through a technology, digital and financial literacy training mobilization to be launched in partnership with sector leaders, NGOs and the public sector.
KNOWLEDGE ECONOMY BREAKTHROUGH
04381500
INFORMATION TECHNOLOGIES
We will ensure that the public sector is a driving force in the new technology breakthrough.
In information technologies, we will not only be a consuming but also a producing country.
For the transformation into a knowledge economy, we will carry out structural reforms covering new technology and R&D areas and social development, especially education.
STRENGTHENING THE LINKS BETWEEN EDUCATION AND THE ECONOMY
We will ensure equal opportunities and conditions in education to transition to a knowledge economy.
We will provide all workers with vocational training and lifelong learning opportunities to help our workforce adapt to new technologies.
We will benefit from the experience of experts in the fields of science, technology and education in Turkey and abroad by using distance learning opportunities.
We will develop pre-school education as a qualified and inclusive preparation process for the transition to a knowledge economy.
To increase global competitiveness, we will ensure that at least one foreign language can be learned at a good level from an early age.
We will increase the place of informatics at all levels of compulsory education.
R&D AND INNOVATION STUDIES
We will raise the share of R&D expenditures in GDP to the EU standard of 3%.
We will make incentives no longer a financing tool.
We will activate R&D incentives and organize them in line with production and regional needs.
We will eliminate differences in forms and processes between institutions and ensure coordination in order to facilitate access to R&D supports and increase their effectiveness.
We will adapt the "smart specialization" strategy of EU countries to regional economies.
We will formulate regional R&D policies according to this strategy.
We will increase the capacity and number of public research institutions and develop a model of public research institutions - university - industry cooperation with effective public support.
We will institutionalize R&D activities and establish new international R&D partnerships.
We will create a data bank to develop public policies in the field of information and technology and to analyze the impact of expenditures.
R&D CENTERS
We will restructure Technology Development Zones, Technology Development Centers and Business Development Centers and establish "Regional Business and Technology Development Centers".
We will simplify the legislation governing the operation of the centers.
We will ensure that the centers develop sectoral specializations that will be determined by taking into account the characteristics of the regions.
In these centers, we will provide support in the areas of production technologies, business network and market development, export and human resources.
IT REFORM
We will encourage domestic software production and support the growth of the software sector.
We will ensure a strong demand for the IT sector with public support.
We will prioritize the training of intermediate staff in the field of informatics.
Within the scope of UMEM, we will create employment by providing IT training to young unemployed university graduates.
We will increase the international competitiveness of the IT sector by removing indirect taxes that hinder software exports.
IT TRANSFORMATION IN SMES
We will prioritize the benefit of SMEs from structural reforms for the knowledge economy.
We will implement incentives for SMEs to engage in Internet-based production and sales We will
make legislative amendments to ensure the development of alternative payment systems that facilitate e-commerce and the widespread use of electronic invoices.
We will provide support and incentives for e-transformation of SMEs through KOSGEB.
We will encourage SMEs to use cloud computing, e-procurement, e-stock management and data centers.
We will prioritize SME employees in the digital literacy training campaign.
BREAKTHROUGH IN IT
MORE INVESTMENT IN INFRASTRUCTURE
We will ensure that the public sector is a driving force in the new technology breakthrough.
We will provide all citizens with cheap and fast broadband Internet access.
We will use the Universal Service Fund for its intended purpose.
We will make the necessary fiber optic and next generation network infrastructure investments to provide internet access at the lowest cost.
We will eliminate all inequalities in the provision of internet infrastructure.
We will ensure that public infrastructure investments play an active role in the coordination and financing of IT services as well as in the use of information and technology.
We will expand e-government services and support their more effective use.
LEGAL REGULATIONS
We will develop policies to support the diffusion of new technologies to all sectors and businesses and remove legal barriers in this area.
We will take steps to protect intellectual and industrial property rights.
We will redesign the patent system to transfer basic research outputs into technology and turn them into products.
We will make regulations on the Internet by taking the views of users, content providers, the private sector and NGOs.
We will abolish all exceptions granted to the public in the protection of personal data.
We will ensure that the Data Protection Board is independent.
We will make legal arrangements to ensure the general security of cloud computing and data center services and to subject these services to special security audits.
ENTREPRENEURSHIP ECOSYSTEM
We will expand the pool of talent and knowledge by enabling our citizens who have gained experience in entrepreneurship abroad to support entrepreneurs in Turkey.
We will support university graduates interested in advanced technology to become entrepreneurs through "techno-entrepreneurship" trainings to be provided in partnership with universities, industry and the public sector.
We will establish a Ministry of Entrepreneurship instead of the Turkish Entrepreneurship Council.
We will make legal arrangements to establish "Entrepreneurship Universities" that will only deal with graduate education and R&D.
We will establish "Entrepreneurship Schools (Factories)" that will be coordinated by entrepreneurship universities and where the sectoral differences of each region will be taken into consideration.
We will ensure that these schools have lifelong learning centers, incubation centers, professional support units and fully equipped workshops.
We will increase entrepreneurship and innovation trainings in all universities.
AGRICULTURE
04381500
A NEW UNDERSTANDING OF RURAL DEVELOPMENT
We will transition to a new model where agricultural production is supported by alternative sectors, especially tourism.
We will support investments in ecological tourism, rural sports, health and social activities with tax reductions and half and half grants.
We will develop natural agricultural areas and organic farms as alternative living spaces for citizens who want to get away from urban life.
We will create modern rural development areas by integrating family farming with new sectors, especially health tourism.
We will establish agricultural and ecological diversity sites and botanical gardens in rural areas close to big cities, turning them into areas of attraction.
ECONOMIC SUPPORT FOR FARMERS
We will reduce the liter of diesel oil that farmers will use for production to 1.5 TL.
We will cover the social security premiums of those working in the agricultural sector from the Treasury until the age of 30.
We will announce the agricultural products to be subsidized one year in advance.
We will guarantee minimum wage income per household for farmers with no other income.
We will make institutional arrangements to enable family businesses and small farmers to sell their products directly to consumers.
We will take the social security of temporary agricultural workers under state guarantee.
EARTH REGIME
We will carry out land consolidation activities and the acquisition of Treasury lands for agricultural production through the Land Acquisition Office we will establish.
We will re-evaluate and classify Treasury-owned lands in terms of their potential for agricultural production and gradually bring them into production.
We will ensure that suitable treasury lands can be leased for 49 years to be used for agricultural activities in line with established principles.
We will implement a model that will support the sustainability of agricultural activities in land consolidation activities.
We will determine the criteria for land consolidation by taking into account regional differences and crop diversity.
We will rehabilitate pasture areas and will not allow pastures to be used for other purposes.
We will activate pasture management unions, complete the planting of fodder crops and train farmers who use pastures.
AGRICULTURAL AND ANIMAL PRODUCTION CENTERS
organizational structure
We will gather all central and regional research institutes operating under the General Directorate of Agricultural Research and Policies under one roof and work in coordination.
R&D STUDIES
We will establish demonstration gardens, barns, etc. to enable farmers to learn about new production techniques and new products by seeing them.
We will update the existing laboratories according to the requirements of the era and establish new laboratories in order to conduct research on a regional basis within the organization.
We will ensure that farmers and businesses are involved in R&D processes by developing joint projects.
We will collect regional research in a database.
We will consider the outputs of research in terms of their potential to generate economic value and contribute to the development of final products.
Technical and Infrastructure Support
By establishing machinery and equipment parks within the organization, we will enable small farmers and businesses to grow without allocating finance for technological investments.
Through the Agency's employees, we will provide farmers and small producers with the necessary expertise, especially agricultural and food engineering.
FOOD SAFETY
We will not allow our land to be used uncontrolled and illegally as a laboratory for agricultural research.
We will fully implement all legal controls on the placing on the market and use of GMO products.
We will establish gene laboratories to develop local seeds suitable for our soil structure and increase capacity in this field.
We will carry out the certification process of seed production with an autonomous structure that will protect consumer rights and act in accordance with international quality standards.
We will prioritize production activities for natural and organic agriculture in agricultural supports and grants.
PROTECTING AND ENHANCING BIODIVERSITY
We will protect our biodiversity with the understanding that we have an obligation towards future generations and nature.
We will support NGOs working in the field of biodiversity and include them in decision-making mechanisms.
In order to protect biodiversity, we will create a campus consisting of a gene bank, gene laboratory and application centers.
We will ensure that this campus works in coordination with the Agricultural and Animal Research Centers.
A MODERN COOPERATIVE MODEL
We will consider the cooperative model as a whole and support cooperatives, unions and central unions with a holistic approach within the framework of a common production model where they can work in harmony.
We will support unions and central unions to reach the capacity to produce final products in terms of human resources, capital, production techniques, production and distribution equipment.
We will guarantee the autonomy of cooperatives so that they are free from political influence and can be among the determining actors of the agricultural economy.
We will implement the hot lunch project, which will be offered to all students within the framework of full-day education, prioritizing women's employment and the use of local agricultural inputs.
access to the market
We will prevent monopolization in the market and ensure fair competition conditions so that producers get their fair share of the profit from the final product and consumers have access to healthy products under favorable conditions.
In the retail sector, we will gather artisans and craftsmen who have difficulty competing with large enterprises under an institutional structure through regional cooperatives.
Through chain markets to be established through central unions, we will ensure that agricultural products are delivered to the final consumer and that artisans and craftsmen have the power to compete with national chains.
ARTISANS AND CRAFTSMEN
04381500
SUPPORT AND INCENTIVES
We will provide zero-interest loans to artisans equal to the amount of annual taxes and premiums they pay.
We will increase KOSGEB's project-specific supports and pave the way for workplace-specific applications.
We will ensure that tradesmen can deduct their workplace expenses such as rent, vehicle expenses, etc. from tax like companies.
We will strengthen Credit Surety Cooperatives and increase the amount of credit.
We will enable tradesmen to own their own shops as if they were paying rent with low-interest and long-term loans.
We will support the organization of tradesmen into concept bazaars and industrial estates, and reduce the expenses of tradesmen through the use of common materials and services.
We will provide tax advantages to cluster companies established by artisans.
We will make historical bazaars autonomous and ensure that they benefit from special incentives.
FAIR MARKET CONDITIONS
We will implement regulations to protect tradesmen by providing a fair competition environment.
We will prevent municipalities from competing with tradesmen.
We will abolish the practice of collecting royalties from the radios that tradesmen listen to at their workplaces.
FULL SOCIAL SECURITY
We will not make tradesmen who have retired but continue to work pay Social Security Support Premium.
We will ensure that tradesmen with premium debts can also benefit from health services.
We will ensure that tradesmen retire at the same time as other employees and benefit from the same rights.
PUBLIC LEADERSHIP
We will provide not only financial but also strategic support to artisans.
We will contribute to the development of business models that will increase the competitiveness of tradesmen.
With a special status, we will prevent unfair competition by Syrians living in our country by doing business exempt from taxes and legal obligations.
LEGAL REGULATIONS
We will implement legal arrangements so that tradesmen who are in management positions can return to their duties if they cannot be elected as an MP.
By establishing a Ministry of Tradesmen, we will ensure that the problems of tradesmen find a wide place in politics.
We will ensure that licensing procedures are carried out by the chambers of artisans.
TOURISM
04381500
SUSTAINABLE TOURISM STRATEGY
We will create a sustainable tourism sector that spans all four seasons and all potential regions of the country.
We will directly support domestic tour operators.
We will increase the sector's external competitiveness by branding unique tourism products without being captive to cheap pricing policies.
We will promote all our regions with a participatory promotion strategy.
diversity in tourism
We will support not only sea tourism but also alternative tourism areas such as nature and culture.
We will establish infrastructure and facilities to increase the potential of winter tourism.
We will provide special support for festival, fair and congress tourism.
We will provide incentives for spa and hydrotherapy center investments and health tourism facilities.
QUALIFIED LABOR FORCE
We will ensure that local governments, chambers and tourism organizations are involved in tourism training.
We will restructure tourism education according to the goal of diversification.
We will make "low season" reductions in insurance premiums for educated workers.
We will develop employment projects for those trained in tourism.
LEGAL REGULATIONS
We will reorganize the labor law for travel agencies.
We will give the authority to audit travel agencies to TÜRSAB.
Umrah and Hajj services will be carried out exclusively by travel agencies under the supervision of the Directorate of Religious Affairs.
We will increase the capacity of stable customers in domestic tourism with the implementation of a staggered vacation period for schools.
ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY TOURISM
We will prepare the zoning plans of all our coastal areas with environmental sensitivity through local governments.
We will ensure that EIA reports are prepared in a scientific and impartial manner.
We will end the confusion of authority and duties in nature protection.
ENERGY
-31754381500
BASIC PRINCIPLES
We will adopt an energy policy that prioritizes domestic resources, is people-oriented and prioritizes sustainability.
We will develop energy policies in an integrated planning framework with foreign, security and economic policies, industrial and agricultural policies and environmental policies.
We will ensure that energy is provided from diversified sources and without harming the ecosystem.
We will ensure that all consumers have access to quality and sufficient energy, continuously and on affordable terms.
In meeting energy needs, we will focus on increasing energy efficiency rather than exaggerated increases in energy supply.
ENVIRONMENTALLY AND SOCIALLY SENSITIVE ENERGY POLICY
We will not implement projects that are incompatible with the environment and society and opposed by local stakeholders.
We will not build power plants in fertile agricultural lands, forests, olive groves, fish breeding basins and protected areas.
We will make feasibility studies and Environmental Impact Assessment Reports (EIA) in line with international standards a prerequisite for all projects without exception.
We will not approve any HEPP project that is not within the scope of basin planning, does not comply with EIA criteria and destroys the ecosystem.
In the EIA report and EMRA license modification applications, we will not allow fuel switching, switching from domestic coal to imported coal and capacity increases for exploitation.
ENERGY INDEPENDENCE AND RESOURCE DIVERSIFICATION
We will gradually reduce ever-increasing energy imports, the biggest burden on our economy and the main cause of the current account deficit.
We will eliminate the foreign policy and security problems created by foreign dependence on energy.
We will rapidly change the current structure, in which we are highly dependent on a small number of countries, by diversifying resources.
We will reduce the share of foreign-dependent fossil fuels in energy consumption and electricity generation.
We will impose restrictions on natural gas and imported coal-fired power plants and gradually reduce their share in electricity generation.
assessment of energy potential
We will increase the share of domestic and renewable energy sources, especially solar energy, which account for more than three times our current electricity consumption but are idle.
We will remove all legal obstacles to the utilization of our production potential within the framework of sustainability principles.
We will implement a realistic energy incentive policy for the efficient use of resources.
ENERGY EFFICIENCY
We will expand distributed energy applications to increase consumption and transmission efficiency and security.
We will prevent the use of illegal electricity without victimizing poor citizens.
We will encourage the production of energy efficient products and gradually phase out the use of low energy efficient products, particularly incandescent light bulbs.
In our industrialization policy, we will focus on the development of industries with low energy consumption, high added value and based on advanced technologies (electronics, genetics, software, nano-technologies, space, aviation, etc.).
We will implement a comprehensive retrofit project that will halve the energy consumption of our 7 million buildings with low energy efficiency.
We will implement effective and modern incentive models that will not put the entire financial burden of improvements, especially insulation in buildings, on homeowners.
We will ensure that new buildings comply with EU standards in terms of energy efficiency.
SECTORAL PLANNING
We will prepare separate strategy documents for each energy sub-sector.
We will plan for the production and distribution of energy resources at the national, provincial and regional scales.
By recalculating energy demand forecasts on a scientific, realistic basis, we will not pay for energy resources that we cannot consume.
We will increase our natural gas storage capacity to at least one third of our annual consumption.
Energy Management and Energy Investments
We will amend existing legislation that threatens our energy supply security by restricting public investment in the energy sector.
We will make energy investments within the framework of public initiative, planning and supervision.
We will establish a structure where the private sector can compete fairly in accordance with international standards and within the framework of the Public Procurement Law.
We will stop the transfer of profitable public institutions to some "selected" companies at low prices.
We will put an end to the policies of downsizing, fragmentation, dysfunctionalization and privatization of public institutions in the energy sector.
We will enable, autonomize and strengthen public institutions by managing them according to the principles of competence, merit and efficiency.
We will merge BOTAŞ and TPAO into the Turkish Petroleum and Natural Gas Corporation in order to carry out natural gas and oil exploration, production, transmission, refining, distribution and sales activities in an integrated structure.
We will unite EÜAŞ, TEİAŞ, TEDAŞ and TETAŞ under the Turkish Electricity Corporation (TEK) in order to carry out electricity generation, transmission and distribution activities in integrity.
CONSUMERS
We will provide 230 kw/hour of electricity free of charge for a poor family of 4.
Instead of distributing coal with high sulfur and low heating value, we will provide free natural gas to poor families wherever infrastructure is available.
We will bring natural gas and electricity prices down to affordable levels by increasing the share of domestic and renewable resources in electricity generation and improving energy efficiency.
With these policies, we will minimize the use of illegal electricity and eliminate the injustice suffered by citizens who have to pay for loss and leakage.
By reducing the high taxes on gasoline, we will ensure that all of the gasoline produced in our country is consumed within the country,
reduce autogas imports
and lower gasoline prices.
We will end the practice of taxing tax on tax (VAT on SCT).
DOMESTIC MANUFACTURING INDUSTRY
We will adopt the principle that the public sector will play a guiding, encouraging and supervisory role in the development of domestic manufacturing.
We will carry out R&D activities in the field of energy in cooperation with the public, private sector and universities.
SUB-SECTORS
RENEWABLE RESOURCES
We will implement rational incentive policies to rapidly increase the share of our rich renewable resources in our energy and electricity consumption.
We will implement a well-established R&D and incentive policy for domestic production of equipment in the renewable energy sector.
COAL
We will make the public effective in coal management and restructure the sector through Turkish Coal Enterprises (TKİ).
We will ensure that important coal areas are redesigned and restructured on the basis of the basin mining concept.
We will autonomize TKİ, freeing it from all political influences.
We will transform the General Directorate of Mining Affairs into a modern structure that will oversee occupational safety and conduct complete occupational safety inspections.
We will ensure that our lignite resources are utilized primarily for electrical energy.
We will never allow subcontracting in the sector.
We will make it a legal obligation for thermal power plants to be built with environmentally friendly and highly efficient technologies.
We will encourage 'cogeneration' and 'trigeneration' applications in the production process in the power plants to provide electricity, heating and cooling from the cycle.
We will rapidly increase R&D activities to increase the added value of our country's coal resources.
NUCLEAR ENERGY
While we are not categorically opposed to nuclear technology, we will not allow risky power plants based on existing nuclear energy technologies that have not resolved their problems to be built in our country in the short term.
We will review the Akkuyu Nuclear Power Plant (NPP) agreement, which was realized without a tender and has serious legal problems in the EIA process, within the framework of local and international legal principles; we will cancel it if possible within the framework of the law, as it will increase the energy dependency of our country and its security is questionable.
We will ensure that technology transfer, safety and efficiency are indispensable prerequisites for all nuclear and similar energy projects to be realized in the long term.
We will closely follow technology development efforts in this field, as in other resources, and work to ensure that our country is among the leading countries in the development of safe and efficient energy resources.
We will carefully monitor the developments in the world in this field, particularly in the areas of 4th generation reactors, fusion-based power plants and thorium.
We will not allow practices that could threaten future generations to be tried in our country until we have a firm conviction that the problem of operational safety and final waste has been solved.
CONSUMERS
-31754953000
CONSUMER RIGHTS
We will protect consumer and producer rights with a holistic approach.
We will ensure the full and complete implementation of Universal Consumer Rights and the Law on the Protection of Consumer Rights.
We will ensure full implementation of the legislation on product safety and activate inspections.
We will establish the Consumer Rights Supreme Council to guarantee consumer rights.
We will make quality audits more effective.
We will uphold consumers' right to full and complete information about the products they use.
We will reduce consumer prices by reducing intermediate levels in the supply chain through modern and effective cooperative models.
We will ensure that loan file costs and card fees are refunded retrospectively for 10 years without application.
We will ensure the direct refund of loss and leakage and meter reading fees charged for electricity consumption to subscribers.
CONSUMER HEALTH
We will harmonize the legislation on the import, production and consumption of genetically modified products (GMOs) with EU standards and implement it decisively.
We will urgently take the necessary measures to ensure balanced, adequate and healthy nutrition for our children in schools, and ensure their supervision.
We will ensure that consumer goods are environmentally friendly through legal regulations and incentives.
QUALITY AUDITS
We will make quality audits more effective with an accreditation system at EU standards.
We will vigorously enforce legislation to maintain standards in the production of goods and services and to ensure effective quality control.
We will emphasize measures to ensure product safety and ensure full implementation of product safety legislation.
We will protect consumer rights together with producer rights.
We will ensure that the public is regularly and comprehensively informed about unsafe products.
CLAIMING RIGHTS AND INFORMATION PROCESSES
We will establish a Consumer Supreme Council to ensure that consumers are compensated for their damages in an expeditious, fair, cheap and easy manner.
We will give consumer organizations the right to representation in the Consumer Supreme Council.
We will support and encourage consumer organizations.
We will provide counseling services to redress grievances.
We will take measures to prevent deceptive, misleading and abusive promotions.
We will uphold consumers' right to full and complete information about the products they use.
SOLIDARITY AND SOCIAL JUSTICE
-31756731000
Fighting inequality and poverty is a human responsibility.
Eradicating poverty and ensuring social development is also a fundamental condition for deepening democracy, accelerating economic development and ensuring social cohesion in a country.
The CHP is the political party that has put forward the most ambitious and comprehensive programs to create an egalitarian society and ensure social development.
The basis of democracy is free people.
Guaranteeing political freedoms is necessary but not sufficient for the liberation of the individual.
To be free, citizens must be economically independent,
receive a fair share of income and
not face discrimination in any aspect of social life.
It is the duty of the social state to ensure the political and economic freedom of citizens.
Rapid and sustainable economic development cannot be realized in a country without adequate social development.
It is the duty of the social state to create the productive and skilled labor force required for the economy by taking the best care of the health, education and security of citizens.
Eradicating poverty and reducing inequalities will strengthen social solidarity and reduce social tensions.
It will bring political stability, peace and tranquility to our country.
AKP'S SOCIAL AIDS
The social state in Turkey is weak and inadequate.
In the last thirteen years that AKP has been in power, no significant steps have been taken to strengthen the social state.
The AKP government's budgetary allocation for social assistance is only half of the EU average.
However, the level and rate of poverty in Turkey is incomparably higher than in these countries.
The way in which social assistance is provided is degrading to the dignity of the citizens who receive it.
Social assistance is distributed by many institutions in an unregulated, irregular, almost haphazard manner.
Those who are poor but do not directly apply to the relevant social assistance institutions cannot access assistance.
Citizens live with the suspicion that aid will not last.
Excessive and irregular expenditures and corruption in the procurement and distribution of aid materials are encountered.
Aid does not aim to make those in need self-sufficient.
AKP has condemned Turkey to policies based on a "social aid for votes" approach.
Under AKP rule, no significant progress has been made towards strengthening the social state and creating a fairer social order.
CHP aims to achieve social justice by prioritizing the goal of strengthening the social state.
These strategies are "inclusive growth",
"holistic social policy"
and "pre-distribution".
inclusive growth
The Human Development Indicator prepared by the United Nations evaluates development by taking into account criteria such as the status of women, health, education, poverty, employment and citizen security.
In 2014, Turkey ranked 69th among the world's countries in this indicator published by the UN.
Under the AKP rule, Turkey has been condemned to remain among the world's socially underdeveloped countries.
The solution is the "inclusive development" strategy proposed by the CHP.
Inclusive development is inclusive, not exclusive.
Because inclusive development is the key to economic growth,
health to improve the quality of life of individuals,
Work,
education,
clean environment
and social support policies.
Economic policies that pursue inclusive development should be prepared and implemented taking into account all disadvantaged groups, including women, youth, persons with disabilities, the elderly and pensioners.
The inclusive development strategy envisages an equitable distribution of the benefits of economic growth that will ensure that they reach every part of Turkey and every segment of society.
Through new and increased social investments, it envisages the development of healthy, secure citizens, equipped with the knowledge and skills required by our age, who benefit from lifelong learning opportunities.
Low-skilled labor to skilled labor,
It envisages the transformation of low value-added production into high value-added production.
CHP will be the architect and implementer of "inclusive growth" in Turkey, which is the basis of "Social Europe".
CHP is determined to reflect the economic development of our country to human development and to bring Turkey among the top 20 countries in the UN Human Development Ranking.
HOLISTIC SOCIAL POLICY
The inequalities that exist in our society are multifaceted and multidimensional.
Inequalities in the distribution of income and wealth are the main source of inequality and poverty.
Differences based on gender, place of residence, ethnicity, religion and sect also play an important role in the transmission of inequalities and poverty from generation to generation.
In many cases, these factors coexist and affect the same people and the same segments of society at the same time.
For example, the poor living in a backward region of our country may face all the barriers of rural environment, patriarchal values and exclusion based on ethnicity, in addition to low income.
This is why the fight against inequality and poverty requires a holistic social policy approach.
Social policies should be prepared and implemented taking into account all dimensions of poverty and inequality.
To this end, women must be empowered at home and in society.
Poor children's school fees should be covered by the state, including university preparation and university education.
Social support programs should be developed that take into account the situation of the disabled, the chronically ill and the elderly without income in the same household.
Those living in economically underdeveloped regions of Turkey should be prioritized for social assistance.
The CHP Family Insurance Program is a holistic social policy project that addresses all aspects of poverty and aims to eradicate it.
PRE-DIVISION
Inequalities are rooted in the place of birth of children, their gender and the educational attainment of their parents - conditions that are completely independent of their own choices and efforts.
In Turkey, inequality and poverty are passed down from generation to generation.
Poor children remain in a cycle of poverty because they do not have access to quality health and education services.
An education system that fails to create equal opportunities restricts social mobility and does not provide opportunities for new generations to live in better conditions than the previous generation.
CHP adopts the principle of "pre-distribution" to prevent inequalities at the source in our society, where inequalities are rife.
Pre-distribution is based on the principle that all citizens should have economic, social and cultural opportunities from the beginning of their lives.
CHP is aware that equal opportunities for citizens minimize the impact of conditions such as place of birth and parents' education on life opportunities.
CHP's goal is to ensure that all children have a strong and fair start to life with equal rights and opportunities.
To prevent children from being condemned to inequality due to circumstances beyond their control.
Promote social investments to build a strong pre-distribution system,
health
and quality public services in education need to be improved.
Inequality and social injustices must be tackled starting from before birth.
The fate of a child should no longer be determined by which parents and where in the country a child is born.
CHP FAMILY INSURANCE PROGRAM
At the center of the CHP's strong social state project is "Family Insurance".
The main objective of Family Insurance is to develop a modern social security system and social protection network in Turkey.
To liberate all our citizens from all forms of marginalization, without any discrimination.
With the CHP Family Insurance Program, our citizens will be able to live as independent, free and equal individuals without needing anyone; individuals, families and the position of women within the family will be strengthened.
The CHP Family Insurance Program will form the basis of a strong social state in Turkey.
According to EU norms, those with incomes below 60 percent of the national median income are considered poor.
In Turkey, there are 3 million 750 thousand poor households and 16 million 700 thousand people living in these households.
The CHP Family Insurance Program will provide regular and adequate monthly financial support to every citizen whose income is below the poverty line and raise their income above this line.
This support would be a "civil right".
With the CHP Family Insurance Program, social assistance will be doubled to the EU average of 2.5% of GDP.
Under the CHP Family Insurance Program, supports such as infant nutrition support, nursery support, general health insurance premium support, disability support, elderly support, military service support, pregnancy support, home care support, etc. will be provided.
Cash payments will be made to the women's bank account.
Family Insurance will support free, quality full-day education for every child, starting with pre-school.
Every child will have access to health, nutrition, social and cultural development opportunities until the age of 18.
In contrast to the AKP government's social assistance policies, the CHP Family Insurance Program will encourage employment and women's work.
Family Insurance will be conditional on the unemployed members of the household looking for a job through İŞKUR and attending vocational courses.
CHP Family Insurance aims to strengthen individual autonomy, family and social solidarity, which have been weakened under AKP rule.
It aims to enable families and individuals to stand on their own feet and look to the future with confidence.
With the CHP Family Insurance Program, all our citizens will become the cornerstones of a happy and democratic society.
CONCLUSION
A humane life can only be possible in an order where social welfare, happiness and income are equitably distributed and all citizens have equal access to education and health services.
The CHP's goal is to establish an order in which our citizens can live justly, honorably and humanely without worrying about the future.
Under CHP rule, no citizen will be homeless, no one will go
to bed hungry
and children will not have to work.
Under CHP rule, no citizen will have to accept dangerous working conditions and wages below the minimum wage because they are poor.
Under CHP rule, women will be empowered in society and participate more in the labor force.
Young people will be helped to find jobs and start their own lives.
The social state that the CHP will strengthen will ensure equity, development and prosperity in our country.
CHP will put an end to this system that makes our citizens dependent on individuals and politics.
An order in which our citizens can live in security and look to the future with confidence will be established.
Our citizens will be free from dependency, free and happy.
FAMILY INSURANCE
04381500
EFFECTIVE SOCIAL STATE, FREE CITIZENS
We will leave no precarious and poor citizen and establish social justice.
Education
and we will ensure access to health services for all.
We will strengthen the autonomy of our citizens and our democracy, and
promote social solidarity and cohesion.
Will boost employment
We will reduce informality.
We will empower children, women, the elderly, the chronically ill and the disabled.
We will revitalize the economy and make tradesmen smile.
FIGHT AGAINST POVERTY
We will provide social support to 16.7 million people and 3.75 million households.
Over 5 million citizens will be covered by social assistance for the first time.
We will provide 9.6 million citizens with regular cash support for the first time.
We will double social support and increase the types of aid.
We will ensure that no household's income falls below 720 TL.
We will cover 3.2 million citizens under General Health Insurance free of charge.
RIGHTS-BASED SOCIAL SUPPORT
With the Family Insurance Experts we will employ, we will prepare a poverty inventory as soon as possible and deliver social support to those in real need.
We will prevent widespread indiscriminate and nepotistic practices in the provision of subsidies and all corruption, including high and irregular expenditures.
We will provide cash support to ensure freedom of choice for our citizens and we will free them from dependency on in-kind aid.
We will eliminate institutional complexity and use our resources effectively, economically and efficiently.
STRONG WOMAN, STRONG CHILD
We will provide Family Insurance subsidies to women.
With the Family Insurance Program, we will ensure that no child goes to bed hungry.
We will start child support at conception.
We will ensure that all children benefit equally from health and education services, with preconditions for health and nutrition in early childhood and education in later life.
We will increase girls' school enrollment rates by making the continuation of child support conditional on sending girls to school.
At the beginning of each school year, we will provide educational equipment support to children who continue their education.
SOCIAL COHESION
To help our citizens overcome their economic and social difficulties, we will organize social cohesion programs for poor families in Family Centers.
At the Family Centers, we will organize courses on topics such as mother and father education, reducing juvenile delinquency, and cover expenses such as transportation, food and childcare.
RIGHT TO ACCESS TO HEALTH
We will cover the GHI premiums of all our citizens covered by Family Insurance from the Treasury.
Within the scope of Family Insurance, we will provide support to our citizens with chronic diseases at the level of disability support.
EMPLOYMENT-ORIENTED SOCIAL SUPPORT
We will encourage all citizens covered by Family Insurance to attend vocational training courses and register with İş-Kur.
We will prioritize families benefiting from the Family Insurance scheme in public guaranteed employment projects.
A FAIR AND DEMOCRATIC WORKING ORDER
04381500
LEGAL ASSURANCE
We will organize the Labor Law as a "Basic Labor Law" and we will not exclude any worker from its scope.
We will also cover those working at home, at sea, in the press, in air transportation, in agriculture, in the forest.
We will reform working conditions in line with the ILO, the European Social Charter and other EU legislation.
We will ratify without reservation the principles of the revised European Social Charter, including annual leave, minimum wage and trade union rights.
COMBATING DISCRIMINATION
We will combat sexist and identitarian approaches to wage determination and all other forms of discrimination.
We will encourage women's employment.
We will reduce women's care burden.
We will develop effective policies for the employment of the disabled and their adaptation to working life.
We will prevent child labor in all situations.
We will protect children through education policies and the Family Insurance Program.
HIGH LIVING STANDARDS
We will introduce a wage regime that allows workers to live humanely with their families.
We will remove taxes on the minimum wage and raise the minimum wage to 1500 TL.
We will include the inflation difference and the welfare share in the calculation of the minimum wage increase.
We will eliminate wage inequalities among employees and expand their economic and social rights.
We will reduce the working week to 40 hours, with no reduction in pay.
We will prevent working hours that exceed the rules stipulated by the Basic Labor Law through effective inspections.
We will ensure a fairer distribution of the tax burden and ease the tax pressure on wage earners.
FIGHT AGAINST UNEMPLOYMENT
We will fight unemployment effectively with the "National Employment Strategy".
We will expand and mainstream public employment.
We will prevent the misuse of Unemployment Insurance.
To this end, we will ensure that representatives of labor unions predominate in the management of the fund.
We will facilitate the conditions for access to unemployment allowance and increase the amount and duration of payments.
SOCIAL SECURITY
We will implement the "Fight Against Unregistered Employment Program" to prevent unregistered work.
We will establish an effective inspection system based on the declaration of the worker and impose severe sanctions on those who employ unregistered workers.
We will protect severance pay, which is an uncompromisable and inalienable right.
In case of bankruptcy of the employer, we will make severance pay a priority claim along with all other workers' rights.
We will prevent labor migration from turning into a reserve of cheap labor.
We will fight against unregistered foreign and migrant labor.
TRANSFERRALIZATION
We will implement an effective action plan to end subcontracting, starting with public institutions.
We will put an end to subcontractor labor, sub-employer and royalty practices in the public sector, setting an example for the private sector.
We will put an end to all forms of temporary and precarious employment based on the laws of institutions and organizations, contracted personnel under 4/B and temporary personnel under 4/C.
We will transfer these public employees to civil servant and labor positions.
We will compensate for the losses experienced by public employees in their personal rights due to their employment in different statuses.
WORK SAFETY
Work Accidents
We will put an end to the perception that death in work accidents is fate.
We will change the working conditions that cause work murders.
We will make workplaces, especially shipyards, mines and construction sites, no longer death traps.
occupational diseases
We will activate measures to protect workers' health.
We will emphasize preventive medicine and make the treatment of diseases that cannot be prevented free of charge.
We will establish the National Council for Occupational Health and Safety, which will pursue the public interest instead of commercialization.
We will redefine occupational diseases according to ILO standards and determine the sectoral/regional distribution of these diseases.
In the light of this objective data, we will ensure the specialization of occupational disease treatment clinics in hospitals and, if necessary, the establishment of new occupational disease hospitals.
We will act with an understanding of struggle that will cover the fields of labor law and medicine to eliminate the factors that cause occupational diseases.
EFFECTIVE SUPERVISION
We will impose strict sanctions on workplace inspections and remove administrative investigations from being subject to ministerial authorization.
We will establish autonomous institutional structures to carry out vocational trainings and inspections with the participation of trade unions, professional chambers/unions, universities and experts from relevant ministries.
We will launch a nationwide training and supervision campaign with national, sectoral and regional programs.
We will provide full job security for workplace physicians and occupational safety experts.
We will make the dismissal of these experts subject to the approval of the labor inspector and the union/worker representative.
We will ensure that the wages of personnel providing occupational health and safety services are covered from a common fund to which the employer contributes three-quarters and the state one-quarter.
LEGISLATION
We will revise the legislation on occupational health and safety in accordance with international criteria and ILO norms with the participation of relevant parties.
We will implement a new model of occupational health and safety in which workers are the subjects.
In cases of work accidents involving death or serious injury, we will impose restrictive penalties on the at-fault employer.
We will make legal arrangements to ensure that the state is held responsible together with the employer for ensuring that working environments comply with health and safety conditions.
We will establish a permanent board that will determine the occupations and titles classified as hazardous work and the employees who will benefit from the actual service increase in an up-to-date manner.
SKILLED LABOR
vocational training
We will promote vocational training and raise the average education level of workers.
We will carry out effective workforce and training planning by taking into account the supply-demand balance of the labor market.
We will regularly analyze the occupations needed for all our provinces and prepare employment maps showing labor supply and demand needs.
We will determine the geographical distribution of vocational training schools according to these maps.
We will establish vocational schools with boarding and scholarships in Organized Industrial Zones (OIZ) and Industrial Sites.
We will implement a long-term training program to increase the skills of unskilled workers in cooperation with I-Kur and private training.
Under the program, we will gradually place 800,000 unemployed citizens in 9-12 month training programs that will pay them a minimum wage.
We will implement short training programs to provide new skills to those who have lost their jobs and the young and unemployed.
intra-professional training
We will develop active employment and vocational training policies to train workers in the production process and to help them acquire new skills.
We will make activities such as "Reskilling", "Lifelong Learning" and "On-the-Job Training" more widespread and effective.
We will make on-the-job training compulsory for all employees, especially those working in risky jobs.
Cooperation with High Value Added Sectors
We will support production sectors that employ high-skilled and high-wage labor and use high technology intensively.
We will integrate companies operating in the manufacturing industry with existing on-the-job training programs through social dialogue and increase their institutional capacity.
We will create inpatient vocational education units in OIZs and turn OIZs into vocational education campuses.
TRADE UNION RIGHTS
We will consider the right to union membership, the right to collective bargaining and the right to revision as a whole.
We will accept ILO conventions as the minimum norm for the exercise of these rights.
We will pave the way for workers to organize in trade unions and seek their rights, and remove obstacles to the exercise of the right to collective bargaining.
ORGANIZING
We will legally guarantee the right of workers to organize trade unions.
We will increase unionization rates by preventing employer pressure on worker organizations and financially incentivizing employers who employ unionized workers.
We will guarantee the working rights and conditions of unionized workers and civil servants, workplace union representatives and union leaders.
union functioning
We will put an end to restrictive regulations that condition the exercise of trade union rights with work branch and workplace thresholds, collective bargaining authorization requirements, ESK membership and similar provisions.
We will protect the trade union space against the interventions of political powers.
We will put an end to favoritism in legal regulations.
collective bargaining agreement
We will pave the way for sectoral and national collective bargaining mechanisms.
We will ensure that all workers enjoy the right to collective bargaining and a system of wage determination and wage increases strengthened by collective bargaining.
We will grant public employees the right to collective bargaining with strike.
We will leave the determination of the authorization to conclude collective bargaining agreements to an independent body and introduce a quick and effective judicial review.
In the event of a dispute over the determination of the authorized union for collective bargaining, we will rely on the use of the referendum method for judicial review.
We will ensure the continuity of social dialogue and consultation mechanisms through an Economic and Social Council, which is mainly composed of workers, employers and the government.
RIGHT SEARCH
We will consider the right to strike as a guarantee for the implementation of the rights provided by collective agreements.
We will pave the way for forms of action such as "Rights Strikes" and "Solidarity Strikes" to be used when necessary.
We will make legal arrangements to decriminalize "general strike".
We will cancel the regulations that allow the Council of Ministers to postpone strikes.
STRONG WOMEN, STRONG SOCIETY
-31754381500
ECONOMIC INDEPENDENCE
MORE ECONOMIC SUPPORT FOR WOMEN
We will ensure equitable distribution of public resources and responsibilities through gender-sensitive budgeting.
We will empower women economically by making Family Insurance payments to women.
We will increase the grant rate from 50% to 67% in SME support for companies in which women are the controlling shareholders.
We will pay a grant of 88 thousand TL to women entrepreneurs who will start a new business, 33 thousand TL of which will be in advance, in return for their invoiced expenditures.
We will make the Credit Guarantee Fund pay 33% of the interest on loans that SMEs with women as controlling shareholders will use to expand their businesses.
We will increase the state contribution in Private Pension Insurance to 33% for women.
We will give a corporate tax discount to companies that employ at least 33% women.
We will gradually increase the proportion of women on the boards of directors and advisory boards of BIST-listed companies to 33% through the quota application.
We will support and diversify women's cooperatives.
priority for women in working life
With the "Women-Employed Growth Model", we will ensure that women work in secure and qualified jobs.
We will ensure that 70% of the employees of the ministry responsible for women are women.
We will increase women's participation in the labor force to 40% in the short term and 60% in the long term.
We will organize vocational training courses for women by focusing on workforce needs and individuals' skills.
combating discrimination against women in the world of work
We will clearly define direct and indirect discrimination against women in the Labor Law and combat discrimination through effective sanctions.
We will add the concepts of verbal, physical and psychological harassment and "mobbing" to the Labor Law.
We will introduce gender quotas in the public sector and incentives in the private sector to ensure a wider participation of women in management positions.
We will apply positive discrimination in vocational training in areas where women are excluded.
We will introduce employment quotas and tax breaks in these areas.
We will solve transportation and security problems, which are one of the obstacles to women's participation in working life.
We will eliminate physical deficiencies in public spaces such as insufficient street lighting.
We will act with the understanding of "equal pay for equal work"; we will ensure that women are fully compensated for their labor.
WE WILL REDUCE THE BURDEN OF CARING FOR WOMEN
We will reduce the burden of child, sick, elderly and disabled care responsibilities on women.
We will provide institutionalized, free and high-quality day care and home care services.
We will cover women who provide care services under social security.
We will expand parental leave to prevent women from leaving the workforce.
We will formalize areas where women predominantly work, such as the agricultural sector, domestic services and working from home.
We will remove the obstacles to union organization in these areas.
We will monitor the adequacy of the services provided by workplaces and municipalities that are obliged to open daycare centers.
We will reorganize the obligation to open kindergartens based on all employees, not on the number of female employees.
We will ensure the widespread use of breastfeeding rooms in workplaces.
EQUAL OPPORTUNITY IN EDUCATION
We will ensure that girls remain in formal education and complete 13 years of compulsory education, including one year of pre-school education, on equal terms.
We will organize quotas in free boarding schools and university dormitories in a way that eliminates gender discrimination.
We will ensure that women are guided in the education system according to their individual skills and aspirations, not gender roles.
We will give every woman who has had to drop out of school the opportunity to complete her education.
We will remove discourses that lead to gender discrimination from the education curriculum.
ZERO TOLERANCE FOR VIOLENCE
we will prevent violence before it is born
We will ensure the full implementation of the Istanbul Convention, which envisages a multi-faceted fight against violence against women based on equality between women and men.
We will make the necessary amendments to the Turkish Penal Code to criminalize violence against women.
We will initiate social awareness-raising activities to establish a democratic family understanding.
We will carry out large-scale campaigns to inform women subjected to violence about their rights.
We will organize trainings for public officials dealing with victims to improve their attitudes and behaviors on violence against women.
We will improve oversight mechanisms in this area.
FULL SUPPORT FOR WOMEN VICTIMS OF VIOLENCE
We will allocate sufficient funds from local and national budgets to combat violence against women.
We will first guarantee the safety of victims of violence.
We will create the necessary administrative and financial structure to ensure that victims are provided with a safe environment immediately and without financial burden.
We will increase the number and quality of shelters.
We will improve the function of shelters in the transition of women victims of violence to normal life and bring them up to EU standards.
We will establish domestic violence units in police stations and family courts.
We will ensure that the personnel working in these units are trained and equipped.
We will ensure that women victims of violence are provided with legal support 24/7 in cooperation with bar associations.
EQUAL REPRESENTATION, EGALITARIAN LAWS
We will establish a General Directorate for Equality between Women and Men.
We will change the Commission for Equal Opportunities for Women and Men in the Turkish Grand National Assembly to the Commission for Equality between Women and Men.
By making this Commission the main commission, we will ensure that all laws are reviewed in terms of equality.
BROAD PARTICIPATION AT ALL LEVELS
We will establish women's commissions at the local level.
We will give local women's commissions the right to participate in Municipal Assembly meetings.
We will expand and strengthen the Women Assemblies of City Councils.
We will introduce incentives to increase women's participation in trade unions and civil society organizations and their effectiveness in the management of these organizations.
We will prioritize women's organizations in the distribution of support.
YOUNG PEOPLE LIVING THEIR YOUTH
-31754381500
UNSEEN YOUTH
In the formulation of youth policies, we will take into account all disadvantaged young people, such as those who are disconnected from education, who have to work, who are unemployed, young people with disabilities.
We will ensure that more than two million young girls who have had to drop out of school complete their education through catch-up education and distance learning programs.
MORE ECONOMIC SUPPORT
We will continue the education grants provided under the CHP Family Insurance Program for poor young people (18-20 years old) who do not qualify for university and provide university preparation support up to 240 TL per month.
We will provide Free Education Scholarships to all university students with insufficient financial means.
We will provide all university students who apply with a publicly subsidized Higher Education Life Support Loan, the repayment of which will be structured according to employment conditions and with a long-term maturity.
We will abolish university fees completely.
We will solve the dormitory problem within a year by building dormitories with rooms for a maximum of two people.
We will provide free dormitories to all young people in need.
We will provide free broadband Internet access in dormitories.
For all young people under 25 years of age, we will provide Youth Discount in transportation, culture and art events, various stores and restaurants.
With the Youth Budget, we will make public resources allocated to young people transparent and open them to the effective control of CSOs.
MORE JOBS, FULL SECURITY
youth employment
We will reduce youth unemployment by developing the "Youth Employment Growth Model".
We will ensure that the Ministry of Youth and Sports is staffed by young people under the age of 40.
By applying positive discrimination in employment processes and incentives, we will bring young people who are excluded from the labor market into working life.
We will prevent unregistered and precarious employment of young people by introducing tax and premium reductions.
To make it easier for university students under 29 to work part-time, we will ensure that their income tax and insurance premiums are covered by the state.
We will expand employment opportunities for students on university campuses.
end unemployment for graduates
We will improve university and industry cooperation.
When determining university quotas, we will also take into account the demands of the business world.
We will strengthen the career planning units of universities.
We will establish a national internship information bank that can be accessed online.
We will offer paid internships to higher education students in public institutions.
We will implement incentive programs to expand internship opportunities in the private sector.
We will support youth entrepreneurship through entrepreneurship training, start-up funds and mentoring programs.
For university students under the age of 29 who want to start a business, we will provide sectoral training opportunities within the scope of KOSGEB and provide sufficient cash support.
We will shorten the duration of military service.
We will ensure that students can complete their military service in three-month periods during summer vacations.
A SELF-CONFIDENT, FREE AND TOLERANT YOUTH
We will expand international youth exchange programs, connecting with more countries and more schools.
We will provide enough funds to cover transportation and living expenses for young people participating in these programs.
We will launch the "Youth on the Move" initiative for young people to recognize different cultures, be more open to the world and gain an international vision.
We will establish "Youth Houses" where social, cultural and artistic activities can be organized, starting from regions where social activity options are scarce.
We will make it compulsory for a certain portion of the funds allocated from the central budget to local governments to be used for social activities for young people.
AN ACTIVE AND PARTICIPATORY YOUTH
a youth aware of its rights
We will reorganize the "Citizenship and Human Rights" course and make it compulsory in secondary education to raise awareness among young people about their rights.
We will offer courses and training programs to inform families about youth rights and youth psychology.
We will develop training programs to inform young people about participation and democratic rights.
YOUNG PEOPLE WILL HAVE A SAY IN EVERY FIELD
We will change the perception of young people as "usual suspects" under Article 58 of the Constitution.
With the amendment we will make to the Constitution, we will obligate the state to ensure that young people enjoy fundamental rights and freedoms equally and participate effectively in social, economic and political life.
We will establish a "Youth Specialized Commission" in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and ensure the effective defense of youth rights.
We will establish a "National Youth Council" that will include representatives of youth NGOs, university student councils and Provincial Youth Assemblies.
We will legally guarantee the representation of university student councils in university senates and faculty administrations.
We will provide administrative and financial support to youth NGOs and encourage youth-related projects.
CHILDREN LOOKING TO THE FUTURE WITH HOPE
04381500
CHILD POVERTY
With the CHP Family Insurance Program, we will meet all the needs of poor children, especially health, nutrition, kindergarten and education.
We will provide cash support to poor children under Family Insurance.
We will introduce free school meals.
We will prevent disengagement from education and child labor, which are the main reasons why children remain in the cycle of poverty.
We will provide every poor child born with a "baby chest" that provides all hygienic needs for the first six months, including formula and diapers.
FAMILY CENTERS
We will establish 15,000 "Family Centers" in every province of Turkey to ensure that every child has adequate opportunities for health, nutrition, education, social and cultural development.
We will employ 45,000 experts to provide health and care, counseling and psychological support, play and culture and arts services.
At the Family Centers, we will provide children not only physical but also emotional and cognitive development services.
We will provide guidance and psychological support services to prospective parents, as well as child health and nutrition education.
HEALTHY CHILD, HEALTHY SOCIETY
We will make basic health care completely free for every child.
We will develop systematic programs and institutional infrastructures, including family physicians, to provide prenatal and postnatal services.
We will encourage breastfeeding, especially in the first six months.
We will expand children's hospitals that exist only in big cities across Turkey.
TRANSFORMATION IN EDUCATION
We will make pre-school education compulsory and free of charge to strengthen children's cognitive development and school readiness.
In order to improve the quality of education and ensure equal opportunities for all, we will increase the resources allocated to education and expand the share of investments in the education budget.
We will change the education system focused on memorization and exams.
Our priority will be the student's skills and learning experience.
We will include civic awareness, anti-discrimination and human rights courses in the curriculum.
We will turn schools into centers of attraction with extracurricular opportunities such as sports, arts and cultural activities.
CHILD ABUSE
We will prevent the use of violence as an educational tool.
We will ensure that child abuse is effectively punished.
Where children are victimized, we will prioritize redressing the victimization.
Children involved in forensic cases will be supported by a team of social workers, psychologists, sociologists, pedagogues and lawyers.
We will not allow children to remain in the cycle of violence and crime.
We will not aim to punish children involved in crime, but to educate and reintegrate them into society.
We will restructure the Juvenile Courts and judicial processes to serve this purpose.
We will end juvenile detention and close juvenile prisons.
In particular, we will prevent girls from being married off at an early age.
RETIREES WITH HIGH STANDARD OF LIVING
04381500
A QUALITY LIFE FOR RETIREES
We will give pensioners a salary bonus on Ramadan and Eid al-Adha.
We will close the gap between workers' salaries and pensions.
We will ensure that pensioners receive a welfare share from the increase in national income.
We will increase pensions according to food inflation.
We will ensure that retirees receive bank promotions at the same rate as public employees.
We will abolish medical and pharmaceutical co-payments and difference fees for retirees.
INEQUALITIES AMONG PENSIONERS
We will enact a fair adjustment law.
We will truly unite social security institutions under one roof.
We will eliminate the imbalance in base salaries based on civil servant pensioners.
We will reorganize the coefficient and indicator system.
We will address the grievances of those who have reached the required number of working days for retirement and have paid their premiums, but are waiting for their retirement age to expire.
MORE PROMISES FOR PENSIONERS
We will remove the illegal obstacles to pensioners' unions.
We will support the establishment of Pensioners' Assemblies at the local level.
RETIREES ARE ACTIVE MEMBERS OF SOCIETY
We will open retirement clubs together with local governments.
We will offer senior citizen discounts for all kinds of cultural events.
With cultural tourism projects to be realized within the Ministry of Tourism and in cooperation with TÜRSAB, we will provide our pensioners with travel and vacation opportunities at reasonable prices.
We will build new facilities for professional groups that do not have social facilities and ensure that our retirees benefit from these facilities in the widest possible way.
DISABLED PEOPLE IN EVERY FIELD
-31754381500
NOT NEEDY PENSION, "LIFE PENSION"
We will provide a living pension of 400 TL for 40% disability level and 600 TL for 60% disability level for disabled people covered by Family Insurance.
We will provide care for all disabled people in need of care.
We will include our citizens who receive home care pensions under social protection.
We will expand short and long-term institutional care services.
We will meet the nutritional needs of disabled people with special nutritional needs free of charge.
FREE HEALTH SERVICES FOR PEOPLE WITH DISABILITIES
We will provide medical equipment and needs of the disabled free of charge.
We will end the ordeal of obtaining a separate report for each application to public institutions.
We will include all disabled citizens in social security coverage regardless of any criteria.
We will include the rehabilitation of persons with disabilities in all laws on health, education and social services, as well as in disability-specific laws.
We will develop and implement special projects for early diagnosis, treatment and education of the mentally disabled.
EQUAL OPPORTUNITY IN EDUCATION
We will provide equal, qualified and free education for all disabled people.
In order for the disabled to receive education in an inclusive environment, we will first make the physical conditions of educational institutions suitable for the disabled.
We will prioritize the education of people with disabilities alongside other citizens, and where this is not possible, we will support and increase the number of schools for the disabled.
We will take into account the lifelong learning needs of individuals with intellectual disabilities and autism and prevent their exclusion from formal education.
JOB OPPORTUNITIES FOR DISABLED PEOPLE WHO WANT TO WORK
We will ensure the employment of 50 thousand disabled people by filling the vacant positions reserved for the disabled in the public and private sectors.
We will increase the number of positions and quotas for the disabled.
We will develop effective vocational training programs for people with disabilities and provide guidance services for adaptation to working life.
We will ensure that people with disabilities have access to information resources on equal terms with all citizens.
We will develop special incentives for employers to choose to employ disabled people.
DISABILITY FRIENDLY WORKPLACES
We will provide support to ensure that the physical conditions of all workplaces are adapted to the disabled.
We will secure the right to work of our disabled citizens by enacting a Law on Protected Workplaces.
We will ensure that people with disabilities receive equal pay for equal work.
ACCESSIBILITY IN ALL AREAS OF SOCIETY
We will develop "accessibility standards" so that people with disabilities have equal access to all public services and all areas of social life.
We will reorganize all infrastructure services in a way suitable for the disabled.
We will create a "policy monitoring system" to ensure the right to transportation for people with disabilities.
We will support disabled-friendly passenger transportation services with incentives.
We will increase the cultural and social opportunities of disabled people through disabled guidance centers.
We will support disabled sports clubs in terms of materials and facilities.
QUALITY AND CONTEMPORARY CARE
We will open nursing homes for the elderly in all cities.
We will increase the number of nursing homes, starting from the regions with the greatest need.
We will develop and expand home support and care services.
For the elderly in need, we will provide hot meals to homes in cooperation with local governments.
We will establish social, psychological and financial support programs for family members caring for the elderly at home.
We will train trained and equipped elderly care staff.
SPECIAL HEALTH SERVICES FOR THE ELDERLY
We will put an end to co-payments in basic health services.
We will open geriatric hospitals where preventive health services and early diagnosis and treatment services will be provided.
We will carry out regular screenings with specialized teams to maintain eye, dental and general health.
LABOR AND SOCIAL SECURITY
We will increase the 65 Age Pension, which is paid as 437 TL every three months, to 9OO TL under the Family Insurance Program.
We will offer suitable employment options for senior citizens who want to work.
We will prepare short-term and purposeful training programs for senior citizens to adapt to changing technologies.
MORE INDEPENDENT AND MORE SOCIAL SENIORS
We will develop mass housing projects that combine social services for the elderly.
We will expand social clubs for the elderly so that the elderly do not stay away from social and cultural life.
We will organize public spaces in a way suitable for the elderly.
We will develop special traffic practices for the elderly in cities.
We will establish "Senior Citizen Councils" within local governments to provide consultancy services in the development of projects for the elderly.
Considering that a significant portion of our population will soon consist of the elderly, we will reorganize our legal system to protect the rights of the elderly.
QUALITY PUBLIC SERVICE FOR CITIZENS
06731000
It has become a great necessity to adopt universal service principles free from favoritism in the public administration of our country.
The CHP has carefully and thoroughly prepared a deep-rooted public administration reform program that prioritizes the needs of society and is based on the common good.
The AKP government has plunged the institutional organization of the state and the public administration into an environment of arbitrariness, unprincipledness and favoritism.
Due to shortsighted, partisan and personalized interventions, public administration has been transformed into an inequitable and inefficient wheel of interest.
The principles of merit, efficiency and non-discrimination in public services have been trampled on.
As a political party, AKP was not content with being the government and running the government, it politicized public institutions from top to bottom and attempted to impose its "party-state management" approach on society.
Dysfunctionalization of institutions and ineffectiveness of staff due to political or personal attitudes is not acceptable in terms of objective public administration.
As wrong as it is for institutions to operate without accountability, it is equally wrong for them to be rendered inoperable by political interference.
Public institutions, whose raison d'être is to provide services to society, should be prevented from acting arbitrarily or with a partisan purge approach.
Institutions should operate in accordance with their job descriptions, respect legal limits and act with a personnel regime based on merit criteria.
Merit criteria must be redefined for all public positions and examination systems must be reformed in an equitable manner and open to the information of citizens.
Under a CHP government, hiring without exams will end, and completely politicized preferences in transfers and promotions will be prevented.
CHP will help citizens to see themselves again as a functioning part of the public system, both in terms of examination systems, working conditions and appointments.
CHP will establish a modern infrastructure where citizens can easily use e-government facilities.
The habit of stereotypically responding to citizens' problems and expectations through technological means will not suffice.
Support opportunities will be offered to elderly and electronically illiterate citizens.
Based on its understanding of universal and effective public service, CHP will not allow citizens to bear the costs of profit-oriented co-payments, fees, etc.
Under CHP rule, the "citizen" dimension will be added to the principles of effectiveness and efficiency in public services.
The understanding that public services should be provided by the state as a right of citizenship, not as a favor, will be made dominant.
Citizen-public administration relations will be free from political influence and vested interests.
In all transactions carried out by central or local governments, the expectations and demands of citizens will be taken as a basis, and no one will be allowed to benefit personally.
The state and public officials will not be implicated in massive corruption, which is unprecedented in the history of the world, and public administration will be brought to light.
an education system that will carry our country into the future
Education is an indispensable need and a fundamental human right for all people.
It is only through quality education that individuals can reveal all their talents, and only through a good education can they fully realize themselves.
Education is a key element in raising virtuous citizens.
Education is the most fundamental tool that not only ensures individual development but also the elimination of social inequalities.
Education makes the poor wealthy and the weak strong.
It allows understanding, sharing and contributing to the development of the common values of humanity.
It makes societies more civilized, more democratic and more prosperous.
CHP's primary political goal is to ensure quality education as a universal right for every citizen.
CHP believes that education is indispensable for our citizens to have a say in their future and to live as independent individuals.
Education, especially equality between men and women,
poverty alleviation and
will be the most important tool in the field of development.
CHP believes that all investments in education are in fact investments in freedom, peaceful coexistence and social development.
Education provided in accordance with democratic and contemporary values is the greatest means of combating cultural prejudices and inequalities in income, ethnic groups and sects.
Today, education is the primary source of human development and social justice as well as economic development.
Skilled labor force and rich human resources, which are the essential elements of the knowledge economy, can only be created through an education system that meets the requirements of our age.
The prerequisite for an economy that is innovative, uses advanced technology and produces high added value is a qualified
and equitable education system.
The CHP's main tool for achieving this goal is compulsory pre-school education,
at least eight years of uninterrupted basic education,
a vocational education system that fully meets the demands of the economic world
and is determined to bring the free university system, which is the source of learning, research and creativity, to our country as soon as possible.
HEALTH AT THE BEGINNING OF EVERY BUSINESS
Our basic principle will be that citizens will be able to benefit from health services to the extent of their needs, when and where they need them.
CHP will increase the budgetary allocation for health services.
Under CHP rule, more well-trained doctors, nurses and technicians will be trained.
Emphasis will be placed on preventive health services aimed at protecting citizens before they become ill.
In a CHP government, the prerequisite for benefiting from health services will not be the amount of premiums paid or the money in one's pocket.
CHP will ensure that quality health services are provided to all segments of society without discrimination.
While improving the quality of health services, all measures will be taken to ensure that health workers can work in a secure manner, and the personal rights and working conditions of all personnel will be improved.
CHP will take bold steps to develop the domestic health industry in the areas of pharmaceuticals and consumables, equipment and software.
National health technologies will be developed in cooperation with TÜBİTAK, techno-cities and medical faculties.
CULTURE AND ART
Creating a reconciliatory political environment that will eliminate polarization and conflicts arising from prejudice, marginalization and discrimination is at the top of CHP's political priorities.
In CHP government, a new approach to be developed in line with the principles of equality, freedom and solidarity will protect our cultural diversity while preventing cultural differences from causing divisions and conflicts.
Ending political and arbitrary bans and censorship stemming from cultural marginalization is at the heart of CHP's cultural policies.
All culture and arts activities, including cultural industries, fine arts, performing arts, cultural heritage, publishing, cinema, music, photography and cultural tourism, are the greatest creative potential of our country.
The CHP opposes commercialization in the fields of culture and arts over human creativity and innovation.
Cultural policies will be developed within the framework of an understanding that will ensure the development of the economy, the increase of national welfare and the emotional and spiritual enrichment of our citizens.
SPORTS
The primary goal in sports is to create opportunities that will strengthen the human and social development of our country's young population.
The AKP government has adopted an approach that defines quantitative results in sports as success.
Sport has been seen as a tool for propaganda and speculative construction investments.
Mass sports have been relegated to the background.
In professional sports, one big failure followed another.
Resources have been wasted.
Attempts to organize important sports organizations in Turkey have failed.
The AKP government has divided federations, sports clubs and even athletes into supporters and opponents.
Unrelenting political interventions have turned sports into a focus of partisanship, intrigue and suspicion.
Under CHP rule, politics will take its hands off sports completely.
Youth will be emphasized in the management of the Ministry of Youth and Sports.
Under CHP rule, sports will once again be transformed into an area of social dialog and interaction.
Surveillance, profiling and intimidation of fan groups through lawsuits will end.
Disproportionate police violence, detentions and the use of pepper spray in stadiums will not be allowed.
In CHP government, athlete training and development of sports facility infrastructure will be prioritized.
CHP will work to create environments where all citizens, children and elderly, can regularly engage in sports.
Sports fields, green areas and amateur clubs will be established in every neighborhood to meet the needs of all citizens.
CHP's goal is to make young people love sports and raise athletes who will be successful in every field.
CHP will shape its sports policies on the basis of equality and solidarity.
TRANSPORT: INFRASTRUCTURE FOR INTEGRATION AND DEVELOPMENT
Public interest in the planning and implementation of CHP's transportation projects,
public participation,
national resources
and prioritizing the utilization of technologies,
environmental protection,
accountability and transparency principles will be taken as basis.
The goal is to create a qualified and sustainable transportation infrastructure for Turkey as soon as possible.
CHP will prepare a short and long term Transportation Master Plan with the participation of all relevant parties and ensure that the priorities of this plan are followed.
One of the main objectives of the Plan will be to strengthen the transportation links between the east and west, north and south of the country.
A strategic transportation corridor will be created to connect different regions for passenger and freight transportation and the transfer of energy resources.
Land, rail, air and maritime transportation will be integrated, national strategic plans will be developed and investments will not be made based on short-term calculations.
Urban transportation and regional development objectives will be aligned with each other.
SECURITY OF OUR CITIZENS AND COUNTRY FIRST
CHP believes that in order to ensure the security of our citizens, it is necessary to carefully protect their constitutional rights and gains stemming from international conventions.
In a CHP government, no arbitrary practice or action that will overshadow the freedoms of our citizens will go un sanctioned.
On the other hand, security units will not be allowed to be weakened in their fight against any threat to the security of citizens.
Cooperation with international institutions and organizations against all kinds of terrorist acts at national and regional level will be emphasized.
Support the efforts of the EU and other multilateral organizations to which Turkey belongs to dry up the internal and external financial sources of terrorism.
The neglected security of our borders will be restored and no armed group will be allowed to engage in terrorist activities within the borders of the Republic of Turkey.
The CHP's main goal will be to make Turkey a country where citizens, and especially women, will feel safe in every corner of the country, especially in their homes, villages and neighborhoods.
CONCLUSION
In CHP government, care will be taken to ensure that citizens receive public services according to the principle of impartiality.
Arbitrariness that will damage the institutional reputation and job descriptions of public institutions will be put an end to.
A determined struggle will be waged to eliminate all forms of favoritism.
Efficiency and objectivity will be restored in the management of institutions.
Political practices that jeopardize the job security of public employees will not be tolerated.
A public service approach that does not accept incomplete service to citizens will be adopted.
PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION REFORM
-31758001000
PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION IN FAVOR OF CITIZENS
FLEXIBLE AND SOLIDAR PUBLIC INSTITUTIONS
We will ensure that public institutions and organizations provide services in cooperation and mutual transparency, not competition.
We will end excessive centralization in the bureaucracy and give flexibility to public institutions.
We will allow the bureaucracy flexibility in the use of powers to pursue the public interest.
We will ensure that public administration is based on a mutual relationship between different administrative units and levels rather than a rigid hierarchy.
PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION FOR SOCIETY
Instead of an administrative system that is detached from the people, imperious and prohibitive, we will implement a system in which different segments are represented and actively participate in decision-making processes.
We will put an end to the understanding of "citizen for the state" and act with the understanding of "state for the citizen".
We will eliminate the state's distrust of the citizen.
We will ensure that the citizen's declaration is the basis, except in special cases.
We will ensure the effective use of e-government tools.
We will restore citizens' trust in the state.
quality, planned and reliable public services
We will adopt a centralized administrative planning approach to ensure coordination among different institutions.
We will implement an objective and realistic strategic planning approach in public administration.
We will effectively and transparently monitor whether the plans are achieving their objectives.
In public service outsourcing, we will attach importance to quality and compliance with the standards required by the work, as well as cost-effectiveness.
We will determine how the public service will be provided, one by one and in detail.
We will ensure that the rationale for outsourcing public services is clearly explained.
SECURED PUBLIC EMPLOYEES AT PEACE WITH THE PUBLIC AND THEIR INSTITUTIONS
Restructuring Public Personnel Management We will
simplify the Civil Servants Law No. 657.
We will establish a central unit to regulate and supervise personnel management in line with the principles of autonomy, participation and governance.
In the new personnel regime, we will ensure that local units have autonomy over the personnel who work and will work for them.
We will ensure that the state has confidence in its own employees.
We will make the public sector a major employment area again.
We will clearly define the powers and responsibilities of all public officials.
We will adopt a management approach in which employees will be more involved in decision-making processes on issues related to them.
We will lift the immunity of public servants.
MERIT IN BUREAUCRACY
APPOINTMENTS
We will take ethical values and professional merit as the basis for public personnel appointments.
We will abolish the practice of exceptional civil servants.
We will subject all entry to public positions, except for senior appointments, to a centralized examination.
We will ensure that exams are conducted in an independent, fair, objective and transparent manner.
We will take the protection of family unity as a basis in requests for spousal appointments.
We will eliminate the negativities created by political cadre.
UPGRADES
We will end all forms of discrimination and subjective preferences in promotions.
With the legal regulation we will make, we will ensure that regular exams are held for promotion and title change.
We will ensure that those who have not been promoted due to lack of staff will be able to go up to the highest staff grade to which they can be promoted based on their educational status.
DIRECTORS
We will introduce a written exam requirement for all managerial positions.
We will make it a prerequisite for appointments to senior public positions to have a managerial education.
We will put an end to excessive power and privileges for public sector managers.
we will provide job security for public employees
We will ensure that public services are provided by full-time, secure, permanent workers and civil servants.
We will remove all restrictions on the trade union rights and freedoms of public servants, except for the exceptional cases stipulated in ILO Conventions and the Revised European Social Charter.
We will put an end to flexible working and performance evaluation system in public sector.
We will replace the current performance evaluation system with a system based on objective criteria and merit.
We will put an end to arbitrary punitive governance.
We will prevent exiles under the name of compulsory rotation and eliminate the victimizations caused by past practices.
WAGE POLICY
We will gradually bring the number, salaries and working conditions of public employees to the average of OECD countries.
We will remove all restrictions on the determination of public employees' wages through collective agreements at both workplace and national level.
We will take the principle of "equal pay for equal work" as a basis and eliminate wage injustices and additional payment differences among public employees.
We will take into account all additional payments made to public servants in determining pensions and bonuses.
WE WILL ENSURE CONTINUOUS EDUCATION FOR PUBLIC WORKERS
We will move in-service training in the public sector away from fulfilling quantitative requirements.
We will improve the quality of trainings.
We will ensure that training units in public institutions and organizations provide in-service training in coordination with the Central Personnel Regulation Unit.
We will prevent the commercialization of in-service trainings by private training institutions or trainers.
We will provide all public servants with standardized training on personal development, public service sensitivity and ethics.
TRANSPARENCY AND EFFECTIVE OVERSIGHT
we will make ethical principles prevail in public administration
We will implement regulations that will ensure the establishment of ethical principles and rules in public administration.
We will reorganize the structure and functions of the idle Prime Ministry Public Ethics Board.
We will make ethics commissions in public institutions and organizations operational.
We will transform these units into units that provide consultancy services and training to employees on professional ethics.
effective and comprehensive fight against corruption
We will launch an anti-corruption campaign that will not be limited to public servants but will include the whole society.
We will remove obstacles to the effective fight against corruption and irregularities by the legislature and the judiciary.
We will ensure that those who commit bribery and misconduct in public administration are prosecuted and punished swiftly.
We will increase the penalties for bribery and corruption crimes and abolish the statute of limitations for these crimes.
We will clearly define the duties and responsibilities of public officials to prevent corruption arising from confusion of authority.
We will prevent all kinds of unnecessary and favoritist spending, especially on office vehicles and buildings rented for public services.
we will establish the principle of accountability in public administration
We will establish a "Final Accounts Commission" in Parliament, chaired by the opposition.
We will restructure the Court of Accounts and ensure that the Court of Accounts gains efficiency by expanding its powers.
We will ensure that the Court of Accounts reports are kept regularly and submitted to the Parliament in full.
EFFECTIVE AUDIT IN PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION
We will eliminate all exceptions that allow the executive to escape judicial review.
We will ensure that judicial decisions are fully implemented.
We will ensure a high level of representation of civil society representatives in the access to information and ethics committees.
We will fully autonomize the Ombudsman Institution.
We will strengthen the sanctioning authority of the Institution in administrative matters and make the Institution a body that conducts audits on behalf of citizens.
We Will Establish a Transparent Public Administration
We will reorganize the Law on Access to Information to increase transparency.
We will bring the Public Procurement Law in line with EU standards.
We will restore the Authority's lost powers.
We will rapidly implement the electronic procurement system in public procurement.
We will make all processes regarding privatization tenders transparent.
We will narrow the concept of trade secrets in public affairs.
We will make it compulsory for all public administrators to make their up-to-date declarations of assets available to the public on the Internet.
SUPREME COUNCILS
We will restore the autonomy of the supreme boards that they have lost.
We will prevent the political power from exerting pressure on these boards.
We will give supreme boards the function of policy-making based on expertise and participation, and limit the function of the bureaucracy to the implementation of these policies.
We will include representatives of consumer organizations in regulatory bodies.
We will bring efficiency to the functioning of the Competition Authority.
We will prevent abuse of dominant position in the markets.
We will reorganize the Capital Markets Board Law for the benefit and security of small investors.
We will never allow manipulation in capital markets.
public banks and state-owned enterprises
We will end political pressure on public banks.
We will not allow the resources of public banks to be used in a favoritist manner.
We will make the boards of directors of SEEs independent.
LOCAL GOVERNMENTS
We will determine the division of powers and responsibilities between central and local governments, taking into account the needs of the people and ensuring the highest level of participation.
We will ensure that the resources of local governments are commensurate with their powers and responsibilities.
We will establish a local government system that exists not on rent and tenderism, but on the common needs and demands of the people.
We will make it compulsory for local governments to take actions and decisions that will lead to tenders, zoning changes or rent formation, especially on issues concerning environmental and nature rights, in processes open to civil society organizations and to apply to local referendum when necessary.
We will strengthen Municipal Economic Enterprises (MIEs) to contribute to production and employment.
We will make the activities of ICTs transparent and ensure effective supervision.
We will prohibit all public institutions, especially local governments, from receiving donations from private and legal persons who have direct or indirect interest relations with them.
CONTINUOUS REFORM
We will ensure that the reform of public administration is continuous, responsive to citizen demands and in line with advances in management technology.
We will establish effective reform units at the central level and across institutions to improve administration and boost innovation.
We will ensure that the experts in these units are equipped to follow global developments and enrich the public work culture.
We will make use of contemporary organizational models in public sector reforms and implement people-oriented management models.
EDUCATION
04381500
A NEW UNDERSTANDING IN EDUCATION
We will implement the 1+8+4 education system consisting of 9 years of basic education (one year of pre-school, 8 years of primary education) and 4 years of secondary education.
We will make 13 years of full-day, qualified and free compulsory education possible for every child and youth.
We will organize the education system with a holistic approach by addressing all its components (curricula, students, learning environments, teachers and parents).
We will ensure that changes in the education system are planned in a long-term and holistic manner.
We will reduce grade repetition in compulsory education to below 5% by raising the quality of education and improving school conditions.
restructuring of the Ministry of National Education
We will ensure that the distribution of tasks between central and provincial units within the education system is clarified.
In decision-making processes, we will delegate authority to schools to the extent possible, provided that they act within the standards set by MoNE.
We will formulate education policies with the participation of teachers, school administrators, students, parents and relevant NGOs.
transparency, equality and justice in education
We will implement the necessary legal and institutional arrangements to make MoNE more transparent and accountable.
We will ensure that all tenders of MoNE can be monitored online.
Eğitim will get its rightful share of national income
We will increase the share of public education expenditures in GDP based on the relevant norms of OECD and UNESCO.
We will increase spending per student in early childhood education, basic education and secondary education.
We will regularly identify the qualitative and quantitative needs of each region in education and ensure that educational resources are distributed rationally and equitably.
In basic education, we will transition to a model where schools will have their own budgets.
we will put an end to unsupervised privatization in education
We will reduce the socio-economic segregation between public and private schools.
We will prevent inequalities arising from the segregation of students into different schools based on socio-economic status and faith through the practice of parents choosing among contracted schools.
we will ensure gender equality in education
In our education policies, we will aim to ensure equality between women and men and improve the social position of women.
Through education, we will empower women.
We will not compromise on co-education.
We will take the necessary measures to ensure a steady increase in girls' enrollment rates.
SCHOOLS FOR THE ALL-ROUND DEVELOPMENT OF CHILDREN
we will improve the physical infrastructure of schools
We will increase the number of schools to meet the growing number of students.
We will end the shortage of classrooms in schools.
We will organize the physical characteristics and qualities of all learning environments in a way that is suitable for students and makes learning processes effective.
We will realize the necessary infrastructure arrangements for disabled students in all schools.
FULLY EQUIPPED SCHOOLS
We will ensure that every school has a cafeteria and a large garden.
We will build schools with sports halls, fine arts workshops, music halls, meeting and theater halls.
We will strengthen schools' libraries and Internet infrastructure.
schools will be safe environments for students
We will ensure school and social security and prevent all forms of violence in schools.
To prevent school accidents, we will not allow uninspected schools to open for teaching.
We will insure students against school accidents.
a school environment where students feel valued
We will ensure that all schools have a guidance service.
We will increase the number of psychological counseling and guidance teachers per student to the level of OECD countries.
With full-day education, we will reduce the proportion of learning hours spent in school.
We will ensure that schools give more space to sportive, artistic and cultural activities aimed at increasing students' mental and physical development and skills.
CONTENT OF THE TRAINING
CURRICULUM ALIGNED WITH THE KNOWLEDGE SOCIETY
We will prepare the curriculum of basic education as a whole and ensure that it is implemented for 9 years without interruption, including pre-school education.
We will enrich our qualified human resources by bringing our students to the OECD average in international PISA assessments as soon as possible.
We will create a new curriculum based on freedom, critical thinking and in line with democracy and the information age.
We will make arrangements for students to gain the habit of conducting research and working harmoniously in teamwork.
We will ensure that textbooks have the necessary qualities to contribute to the learning-teaching process.
modern education
We will reorganize the curriculum to ensure equality between women and men.
We will ensure that philosophy and "Culture of Democracy" courses are taught in all schools.
We will make the necessary arrangements to spread basic ethical values throughout the education system.
We will ensure that the "History of the Revolution" course is taught in high schools as "History of the Republican Era" with a new and rich content.
We will include current global issues and international developments in the curriculum.
EVERY STUDENT WILL GRADUATE KNOWING AT LEAST ONE FOREIGN LANGUAGE
We will make the necessary arrangements for students to reach the basic proficiency level of foreign languages.
We will ensure that students receive one year of foreign language-based education at the primary education stage.
We will ensure that foreign languages are taught as a language of communication.
We will develop a comprehensive in-service training system to support the professional development of foreign language teachers.
elective courses will be students' choice
We will end the determination of elective courses by school administrations and ensure that they are chosen by students with the support of guidance services.
We will ensure that there are sufficient number and quality of teachers for elective courses and that student and teacher absenteeism is reduced.
We will organize Religious Culture and Moral Knowledge courses as elective courses.
We will make the necessary arrangements to meet the religious education demands of different faith groups.
TEACHERS AS COMMUNITY LEADERS
teacher training
We will make teaching one of the most respected professions in society again.
We will equip all colleges and faculties that contribute to teacher training with the most advanced physical, financial and academic facilities.
We will implement all policies that will ensure that the most successful students prefer Faculties and Departments of Education.
We will put the assessment of basic competencies in teacher training on a solid basis.
We will equip all teachers with pedagogical skills that will take into account the education of students with special needs in formation education.
We will increase opportunities for practice and internship in teacher training.
increasing the quality of teachers
We will redraft and implement the "National Teacher Strategy Document" in line with EU standards.
We will prepare in-house training seminars in line with the opinions and needs of educators.
We will provide scholarships for postgraduate and doctoral studies to all teachers, regardless of age.
economic security and personal rights
We will end the practice of paid teachers.
We will appoint all teachers as permanent staff.
We will raise the status of teachers within the state cadres, their additional indicators and additional course fees.
We will secure the personal rights of teachers with a special law.
We will ensure that probationary teachers benefit from all the rights enjoyed by civil servants.
selection of teacher candidates
In teacher appointments, we will abolish oral exams aimed at favoritism and cadre-building, and we will take success and merit as a basis.
We will reorganize the current examination system that negatively affects teachers' social lives and education.
teacher appointments
We will solve the problem of teachers waiting for appointment with permanent appointments.
We will close the 140 thousand teacher shortage.
We will meet the need for nearly 50 thousand teachers in schools with unified classrooms.
We will not evaluate any teacher or administrator based on their union affiliation.
We will put an end to the appointment of school administrators based on ideological approaches.
SCHOOLING
With the CHP Family Insurance Program, we will provide poor students with a monthly education support of 240 TL for all periods of compulsory education.
We will provide poor students with free educational equipment and materials.
We will make the education subsidies provided under the CHP Family Insurance Program conditional on girls going to school.
We will ensure that all students in basic education have full-day schools.
We will provide hot lunches to all students as part of full-day education.
In regions where seasonal work is common, we will flex the start and end dates of students' education.
open education within the scope of compulsory education
Throughout the duration of basic education, we will rely on formal education.
We will ensure that all students who have been away from the school environment can return to formal education.
PRE-SCHOOL EDUCATION
In order to end social inequalities, we will include full-day and free pre-school education within the scope of compulsory education.
For the 6 age group (those who have completed 60 months), we will increase the schooling rate in pre-school education to 100%.
In pre-primary education, we will ensure that only teachers who meet defined standards are appointed.
PRIMARY EDUCATION
quality and equal basic education
We will raise the age of starting basic education to 7 years (after 72 months), which is the most appropriate period for child development.
We will extend vocational education beyond 8 years of primary education.
In secondary school, we will ensure that students are informed about professions and can take a limited number of elective vocational courses.
In line with the principle of "the school closest to home is the best school", we will minimize transportation.
SECONDARY EDUCATION
transition from primary to secondary education
We will aim to achieve full schooling in secondary education.
We will offer students who complete primary education the choice of continuing academic or vocational education in line with their abilities and inclinations.
We will ensure that students choose vocational or academic education together with their parents and guidance counselors.
We will put the secondary education transition system on a scientific and consistent basis.
In regions with high seasonal agricultural labor, we will offer make-up opportunities for students who miss exams.
academic secondary education
We will end the segregation of students between schools of different quality.
We will address quality gaps between different types of schools and ensure that all students acquire basic competencies.
We will enable flexible transitions between training programs.
We will put an end to the Ministry of National Education's orientation that disregards students' needs and preferences.
In academic high schools, we will introduce the Centralized High School Leaving Examination (MLBS).
vocational secondary education
We will start vocational education at the secondary education stage after the completion of nine years (1+8) of basic education.
We will implement a comprehensive vocational education reform.
We will allow students who have successfully completed primary education to enter vocational high schools without an exam, subject to the evaluation of their teachers and the approval of their parents.
In vocational education, we will take harmony and continuity between vocational high schools and vocational colleges as a basis.
We will establish a central coordination institution to ensure the integrity of the management of vocational high schools and vocational schools of higher education.
We will make the transition from vocational secondary education to vocational higher education completely exam-free.
VOCATIONAL EDUCATION WILL DEVELOP WITH THE WORKING LIFE
In cooperation with industrial organizations, we will establish apprenticeship centers and boarding vocational high schools in OIZs and Industrial Sites.
We will upgrade young people studying in vocational schools to full-time insured status.
We will ensure that vocational schools have a flexible structure that is integrated with the economy in their regions.
We will develop a new organizational model that will ensure that professional chambers, trade unions and the business world provide the highest level of support to vocational schools operating in their regions.
We will directly support the restructuring of the new vocational education system through land allocation, various tax exemptions, and public resources.
We will ensure that vocational schools offer diploma programs as well as shorter certificate programs and various courses for adults.
vocational schools
We will improve the qualifications of Vocational Schools of Higher Education (MYO) by bringing their equipment and staff to an adequate level.
We will make MYOs preferable institutions for young people.
We will establish vocational and technical education faculties to provide two years of education as a continuation of associate degree programs.
We will ensure that graduates of two-year vocational schools can make vertical transfer to undergraduate programs in vocational and technical education faculties without an exam, within the allocated quotas.
We will ensure that graduates of Vocational Education Faculties can enter business life with titles to be determined by law or enter non-thesis master's programs that train teachers for vocational education.
higher institute of vocational education
We will establish a Higher Institute for Vocational Education (MEYE) responsible for the coordination of vocational education.
We will structure and manage vocational high schools, vocational colleges and vocational and technical education faculties by MEYE.
We will give MEYE the authority and responsibility for determining professional qualification criteria.
We will authorize the institution to provide lifelong education and vocational certificates in cooperation with İş-Kur.
We will ensure that MEYE's central board includes members from the business and working world.
We will ensure that the procedures and principles of appointment and promotion of academic staff to work in vocational higher education institutions will be regulated by MEYE.
TRANSITION TO UNDERGRADUATE PROGRAMS
We will determine the secondary education achievement score by taking into account the academic average and MLBS results and increase its impact on university placement.
We will implement a university placement model in which the preferences of universities will also be effective.
We will conduct two placement exams of the same quality in the last year of secondary education and ensure that students' university placement score is determined according to the most successful exam among these exams.
We will allow academic high school students who do not qualify for undergraduate programs to apply to vocational schools.
HIGHER EDUCATION REFORM
YÖK WILL BE ABOLISHED
- We will abolish the Higher Education Council.
We will establish a new supreme board responsible for coordination in a way to protect the scientific, administrative and financial autonomy of universities.
We will define the main function of the supreme board as ensuring coordination in higher education and planning higher education.
We will limit the role of the state in higher education to setting overall goals and evaluating results, rather than determining the management and functioning of universities.
We will ensure that universities act in accordance with the principles of transparency, accountability and participation in their management processes.
We will remove centralist pressure on universities by strengthening the principle of institutional autonomy.
We will give the authority to determine the principles of academic structure and transition from secondary to higher education to the supreme board to be established.
We will ensure that the accreditation processes of universities are carried out by an autonomous structure.
We will ensure that the political authority respects the autonomy of the university, its historical mission and unique position, and its academic freedom.
We will pave the way for student participation in university governance through the representation of student councils both at the faculty level and in university senates.
MORE RESOURCES FOR HIGHER EDUCATION
We will openly and transparently announce the criteria and principles according to which public resources allocated to higher education will be distributed among universities.
Resource allocation will be based on the needs identified by universities.
We will give universities broad powers to create and utilize additional resources.
We will introduce an "omnibus budget" instead of a budget composed of chapters and line items.
enhancing quality
We will ensure that universities closely follow the developments in the world.
We will solve the problems of rapid expansion and quality in higher education together with universities and their stakeholders.
We will operationalize the concepts of academic evaluation and quality assurance in university governance.
We will ensure that quality assessment of universities is carried out by reliable and independent organizations.
We will ensure that many of our universities are among the top 500 and top 200 universities in the world rankings.
scientific research
We will allocate more resources to all scientific research and R&D.
We will increase the financial and administrative support provided to our academic staff for their scientific research in different countries, especially in EU countries.
We will support high-level scientific research and the training of qualified academic staff.
To this end, we will encourage universities to focus on master's and doctoral programs.
By utilizing domestic and international opportunities at the highest level, we will ensure that at least 15,000 new PhD graduates are recruited every year in Turkey outside of medical education.
By increasing the number of people with PhDs, we will not only meet the teaching staff needs of universities, but also enable industry to employ more highly skilled workers.
We will increase the number and quality of scientific publications by increasing awards and incentives.
We will offer incentives to encourage interdisciplinary research centers and institutes.
higher education programs
We will strengthen the relationship between higher education and employment through comprehensive planning.
We will increase the number of minor and double major programs in undergraduate programs.
We will create degree and professional certificate programs through internet-based distance learning methods.
We will reduce the costs of benefiting from Open Education programs.
ACADEMIC STAFF
We will improve the salaries of teaching staff and administrative staff working in state universities and raise their personal rights to EU standards.
We will ensure that academic staff can continue their research and education activities without worrying about the future and without political pressure.
We will make the necessary arrangements for our academic staff to benefit more easily from international exchange programs.
EDUCATION OF THE GIFTED
We will carefully implement the necessary arrangements for the selection and education of gifted and talented students.
We will establish legislation on the education of the gifted and talented through a supreme board consisting of MoNE, the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology, the Ministry of Youth and Sports, the Interuniversity Council and TÜBİTAK.
LIFELONG EDUCATION
We will establish fully equipped Urban Institutes to meet the lifelong education needs of our citizens of all age generations.
We will ensure that students studying in primary and secondary education can benefit from the Urban Institutes free of charge during summer vacations.
We will prepare the infrastructure of these institutes, which will be established in large campuses, to enable students to conduct scientific experiments, participate in artistic activities, play sports, and receive technical and vocational training in different fields.
We will employ unassigned teachers in different branches in these institutes.
QUALITY AND FREE HEALTH SERVICES FOR EVERY CITIZEN
04508500
PUBLIC HEALTH AND PREVENTIVE HEALTH SERVICES
At the closest point to where our citizens live, we will conduct regular health checks and early diagnosis tests according to their age groups.
With the Cancer Screening Trucks, we will carry out all necessary cancer screenings, including mammography, free of charge and on-site.
We will raise the fight against infectious and epidemic diseases to the level of EU countries.
We will encourage organ donation and expand organ banks.
We will ensure that all households have healthy and potable water from their taps.
By implementing a gradual referral system, we will ensure that citizens can go to the health institution and physician of their choice within the referral chain.
We will establish a national health television channel that will broadcast 24 hours a day without interruption.
We will increase health programs on TRT channels broadcasting in different languages.
FREE BASIC HEALTH SERVICES
We will remove premium payment as a prerequisite for receiving health services.
We will abolish payments such as co-payments, additional fees, etc. taken from citizens to benefit from health services.
Under the CHP Family Insurance Program, we will cover the Social Security premiums of our poor citizens from the Treasury.
Within the scope of the Family Insurance Program, we will remedy the grievances of poor citizens with GSS premium debts, and we will erase their debts in full.
We will put an end to situations that violate human dignity, such as being held hostage in health institutions or being made to sign promissory notes.
We will make hospital and doctor appointment calls free of charge.
FAMILY PLANNING
We will support families to have as many children as they want.
We will remove barriers to access to family planning and provide these services free of charge to everyone who wants them.
We will take measures to reduce birth intervals to a level that does not pose a risk to maternal and child health.
We will work to raise awareness on sexual health, puerperal and infant health, especially in rural areas and poor urban neighborhoods.
EQUAL ACCESS TO HEALTH
women's health
We will ensure continuity in health screenings for women.
We will provide the vitamins every mother needs, free of charge.
We will rapidly reduce maternal, infant and child mortality rates and eliminate regional disparities.
We will bring all necessary services, especially birth and newborn care services, to the level of EU countries.
We will ensure that all our citizens benefit equally from these services.
We will ensure that all births take place safely, free of charge and with the help of medical personnel everywhere.
We will provide support to poor families under the Family Insurance Program for the needs of pregnant women, puerperants, babies and children, such as nutrition and diapers, and provide free medicines.
We will ensure that all large enterprises have breastfeeding rooms and units that can provide primary health care.
CHILD HEALTH
We will ensure continuity in health screenings for children.
In free periodic vaccination for children, we will rapidly increase the coverage rate to 100%.
For a healthy generation, we will implement a comprehensive school health project for our children in schools.
health of the disabled
We will create a disabled reception unit in all hospitals and provide interpreters for the hearing impaired.
We will ensure that people with disabilities come to hospitals by appointment with shuttle buses.
We will provide physical therapy at home for the disabled.
We will facilitate the process of obtaining and renewing a disability report.
We will ensure that our disabled citizens can benefit from health services free of charge where and to the extent they need them.
health services for prisoners and detainees
We will bring detainee and convict health services up to international standards.
We will ensure that there are enough doctors and health personnel in prisons 24 hours a day.
We will remove bureaucratic obstacles to the referral of detainees/prisoners to health institutions.
We will prevent delays in health status reports.
We will make the reports prepared by the Forensic Medicine Institute fast, transparent and auditable.
health services for segments of society with special needs
We will establish patient care centers for patients in need of care.
We will provide health and care services to cancer patients, Alzheimer's patients and bedridden patients in patient care centers.
We will expand addiction treatment and rehabilitation centers.
We will make the diagnosis and treatment of substance abuse completely free of charge.
We will establish special, easily accessible follow-up-treatment-training centers for hypertension and diabetes patients.
We will ensure that those in need are treated free of charge in physical therapy centers to be established in hot springs.
EMERGENCY HEALTH SERVICES
We will put an end to crowding in emergency services by abolishing co-payments from health services.
We will abolish the green zone practice in hospital emergency services and make emergency services free of charge.
We will ensure that emergency medicine specialists work in emergency services.
We will improve the ambulance system, increase the number of stations and ensure that patients are reached as soon as possible.
FAMILY MEDICINE
family health centers
We will provide primary health care services through Family Health Centers with improved facilities.
We will reduce the number of citizens per Family Health Center to a level where quality health services can be provided.
We will not charge patients any fees such as co-payment, prescription fees, etc. for the services provided at Family Health Centers.
We will provide personalized preventive health services and effective diagnosis and treatment opportunities at Family Health Centers.
We will create "City Type Family Health Centers".
We will ensure that dentists, laboratory specialists and other specialists also work in large-scale Family Health Centers.
FAMILY PHYSICIANS
We will solve the problems of family physicians arising from legislation and practice.
We will reappoint family doctors as civil servants.
We will increase the number of health personnel that family physicians will work with to an adequate level.
We will ensure that the primary duties of family physicians are vaccination, pregnancy follow-up, infant follow-up, follow-up of chronic diseases and patient examination.
We will base the success indicator of family medicine on the rate of disease prevention, not the number of people under the doctor's care.
ORAL AND DENTAL HEALTH SERVICES
We will conduct regular oral and dental health screenings for children in schools.
We will expand Oral and Dental Health Centers and make them fully equipped.
We will ensure that all kinds of dental prostheses are made in Oral and Dental Health Centers.
We will ensure that the materials and service are of the required quality.
We will ensure that everyone covered by the CHP Family Insurance Program receives free dental prosthetics.
RIGHTS OF PATIENTS AND RELATIVES
We will bring medical law up to contemporary norms and standards.
We will remove bureaucratic obstacles to citizens seeking their legal rights to health.
We will ensure that the causes of medical errors are investigated and that health care and in-service training are improved.
We will ensure that patients' needs and satisfaction are regularly measured by independent organizations and made public in line with the principle of transparency.
HEALTH WORKERS
SOCIO-ECONOMIC SECURITY
We will reorganize the performance system, which is based entirely on quantity, to make use of quality indicators as well.
We will ensure that all health workers receive a fair basic wage.
We will protect the economic, social and union rights of all health workers and ensure that they work with security.
We will improve the wages and social rights of physicians and health personnel working in deprived areas.
job satisfaction and safe working environment
We will prevent violence against health personnel through legal regulations.
We will give positions to health personnel in accordance with their education.
We will ensure that all nurses and midwives are four-year university graduates and work in their own fields.
Through continuous in-service trainings, we will enable health workers to keep abreast of global developments.
FULLY EQUIPPED MEDICAL FACULTIES
We will make all medical faculties capable of providing high-level health services and training the number of qualified health personnel needed by our health system.
We will meet the teaching staff, personnel and equipment needs of medical faculties.
We will coordinate medical faculties with hospitals in neighboring cities and save our citizens from searching for specialists and hospitals.
We will increase the educational and scientific research resources of medical faculties and enable them to conduct research on regional and local health problems.
INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS
We will ensure an effective and efficient division of labor between the Ministry of Health and provincial organizations.
We will ensure that institutions have authority and resources in proportion to their responsibilities.
We will establish a "General Directorate of Health Programs" within the Ministry of Health.
We will carry out the preparation, implementation and financing of health programs through this institution.
We will establish implementing general directorates such as "Primary Health Care Services", "Inpatient Treatment Institutions", "Health Personnel", "Medical Technology and Pharmacy".
We will transform hospital managements from being profit-oriented.
We will ensure that public hospitals are run by the public sector.
We will make health tenders and spending transparent.
We will prevent grievances by ensuring that tenders are carried out in the fastest way possible.
HEALTH INFRASTRUCTURE
We will ensure that new and modern state hospitals are built by the state in a planned manner.
We will establish fully equipped specialized health centers and branch hospitals in each region according to population density and need.
We will end the practice of closing hospitals based solely on the bottom line and population.
We will remove all obstacles to access to hospitals for our citizens in areas with transportation problems.
We will eliminate inter-regional inequalities in the distribution of physicians and health personnel.
RELIABLE HEALTH SERVICES
With proper planning, we will ensure that doctors spend an average of 15 minutes with each patient.
We will ensure the use of quality medical equipment in diagnosis and treatment services.
We will set up a Free Health Advice Line.
We will protect and legally secure personal health data.
HEALTH INDUSTRY
PHARMACEUTICAL SECTOR
We will remove all barriers to access to medicines, especially cancer drugs.
We will ensure that medicines that are not widely used but needed by patients are imported from a single source and delivered to those in need.
We will promote the local pharmaceutical industry.
We will free our country from foreign dependence on medicines and vaccines.
We will eliminate the grievances arising from the generic drug application within the framework of objective criteria.
R&D
We will ensure that information technologies such as medical information systems and device software are produced in Turkey.
We will establish an effective system of medical technoparks by supporting cooperation between universities, industry and the state.
We will provide incentives for the production of medical high-tech products.
We will make it easier to obtain and protect patent and license rights.
CULTURE AND ART
-31754381500
LEGAL REGULATIONS
We will sign and put into force the "UNESCO Convention on the Protection and Promotion of the Diversity of Cultural Expressions".
We will create a modern Art Law to remove all legal obstacles to the liberation of art and put an end to arbitrary bans and censorship.
We will cancel the draft law on TÜSAK and protect the autonomy and freedom of art institutions.
With broad participation, we will create a Culture Strategy Document that will set Turkey's future goals for culture.
We will treat access to culture and arts as a human right and facilitate citizens' access to art events.
We will complete the necessary legal arrangements and infrastructure work with the participation of stakeholders for the development of digital broadcasting.
CORPORATE TRANSFORMATION
We will make the Ministry of Culture a separate ministry from the Ministry of Culture and Tourism.
We will increase the share of the Ministry of Culture in the general budget.
We will protect the autonomy of state art institutions and prevent them from being used for political purposes.
We will leave the management of art institutions mainly to artists.
We will include city councils and NGOs active in the field of culture and arts in the decision-making mechanisms of cultural centers.
SOCIO-ECONOMIC SECURITY FOR ARTISTS
We will legally guarantee the social rights of our artists and cultural industry workers.
When necessary, we will ensure that the insurance premiums of art workers are paid by the Ministry of Culture.
We will minimize taxes on culture and arts.
We will improve the personal rights and working conditions of all our artists working for the state.
We will encourage the unionization of artists.
STRONG CULTURE AND ARTS INDUSTRY
We will put creative industries, which create employment and contribute to economic development, at the center of our cultural policy.
We will support and encourage private art projects and independent art forms.
We will make sure that the performances of independent artists reach the public.
We will provide free translation and promotion support to our writers in order to develop our literature abroad.
We will modernize the legislation on patents and intellectual property.
We will protect copyrights and make the necessary legal arrangements for an effective fight against pirated products.
URBAN AND ART
We will design all our cities as cultural and artistic spaces and invest in the development of authentic urban cultures.
For this purpose, we will create a master plan for culture and arts for all cities and develop effective policies.
In cooperation with local governments, we will organize public transportation practices to facilitate access to culture and arts events.
With the active support of local governments, we will establish neighborhood libraries and theaters and organize art courses at every point in the cities.
We will make conservation boards more effective and independent from political influence.
We will quickly restore Istanbul Atatürk Cultural Center (AKM), which has been arbitrarily and ideologically closed, and put it at the service of art.
CONTEMPORARY MUSEOLOGY
We will develop modern museology and implement the principle of preserving cultural heritage in the geography where it belongs.
We will ensure that the management of museums is autonomous.
We will accelerate virtual museum studies.
We will provide incentives and infrastructure for the development of private museums.
We will transform the Madımak Hotel into the Museum of Tolerance and Diyarbakır Prison into the Museum of Human Rights and Democracy to ensure that the painful events of the past are not forgotten.
We will establish special interactive museums for children in cities, especially in the field of science and technology.
We will spend the Contribution Share for the Protection of Immovable Cultural Assets, which is collected from property taxes, in accordance with its purpose.
We will support projects prepared for the protection and utilization of immovable cultural assets.
CULTURE AND ARTS EDUCATION
We will give more space to culture and arts in education and ensure that more resources are allocated to such activities in schools.
We will identify children with a special talent for art at an early age and provide them with the highest level of educational opportunities to develop their talents.
We will include art history courses in the curriculum by organizing them in a way that is suitable for students' pedagogical levels and contributes to the development of their creativity.
SPORTS
04381500
LEGAL REGULATIONS
We will abolish e-tickets and Passolig, which stigmatize football spectators as potential criminals.
We will put an end to the security and prohibitionist approach of the law on violence in sports, which disregards individual rights and freedoms.
We will prevent violence in sports with a new approach that sees sports fans as responsible citizens.
We will work on harmonization with international sports law.
We will ensure that the country's sport is improved economically and administratively on the basis of accountability.
We will make the necessary legal arrangements for federation administrations to be elected by clubs, athletes, coaches, sports trainers, sports unions and sports NGOs.
INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS
We will ensure that all personnel working in the central organization of the Ministry of Youth and Sports are under the age of 40.
We will create a new institution charged with supporting elite athletes and improving their training, development and competition opportunities.
We will expand the role of the Turkish National Olympic Committee (TMOK) in sports.
We will make the development and rooting of the Olympic sports spirit in the country the primary duty of TMOK.
In cooperation with the International Olympic Committee, within the scope of the Olympic Solidarity Program, we will develop Olympic sports that do not receive enough attention in our country.
SPORTS COUNCIL OF TURKEY
We will establish the "Sports Council of Turkey" to increase the number of licensed athletes and citizens engaged in mass sports.
In addition to the budget, we will allocate a share of National Lottery revenues to fund the Council's work.
We will ensure that the Council acts in effective cooperation with stakeholders such as federations, local and national clubs, schools and universities.
We will provide resources for organizing and sustaining sports activities, regardless of sport branch and scale.
Through the commercial partnerships that the Council will establish, we will realize sustainable social responsibility projects to contribute to the development of Olympic sports.
EQUAL OPPORTUNITY IN ACCESS TO SPORTS OPPORTUNITIES
We will provide equal opportunities for women and men in sports.
We will improve existing sports practices to meet the needs of our youth.
We will eliminate regional imbalances in sports infrastructure through incentives and special projects.
We will make a sufficient number of sports facilities usable by people with disabilities.
MORE FACILITIES FOR MASS SPORTS
We will support amateur sports that spread the opportunity and habit of doing sports to all age groups.
We will make public sports facilities available to schools, amateur sports clubs and all citizens.
In line with the demands of citizens, we will build different sports fields in each neighborhood.
We will support public institutions and private businesses to build sports facilities so that employees can do more sports.
FULL SUPPORT FOR PROFESSIONAL SPORTS
SPORTSMAN TRAINING
We will increase the number of licensed athletes to the EU average.
We will change the sports policy dependent on foreign athletes and turn to our own values.
We will conduct regular "sportive talent screening" across the country to discover talented children and youth and direct them to active sports.
We will create an athlete profile database in the light of the information obtained as a result of the scans.
We will provide support, including land allocation, for sports clubs to open sports colleges.
education and sports
We will create the necessary environment for our successful athletes to continue their education and professional sports careers together.
We will make arrangements in our education system to facilitate and encourage student participation in all forms of amateur sports.
Instead of general sports high schools, we will establish branch-based sports high schools to ensure that talented athletes receive the right education.
ATHLETE HEALTH AND SOCIAL SECURITY
We will create "Athlete Training-Health and Performance Centers" that will employ sports and health experts with the necessary technical equipment.
We will make the necessary legal arrangements for sports laborers to effectively benefit from social security and union rights.
We will make it compulsory that the financial opportunities provided to promising athletes include social security.
TRANSPARENCY AND FAIRNESS IN SPORTS REVENUES
We will free the transfer of resources to federations from the precondition of political and personal relations and guarantee the financial autonomy of federations.
We will determine the budget, expenditure procedures and principles of federations and make them transparent.
We will establish an autonomous audit system to ensure that federations use resources in accordance with their purpose.
We will amend the award regulations for national athletes to prevent injury to the public conscience and ensure that awards are distributed on the basis of the principle of equality.
We will distribute legal betting revenues more fairly to our clubs.
We will modernize the Sponsorship Law and increase the income of our clubs and athletes.
In addition to the share allocated to sports from the budget, we will create a "Support Fund for Sports Clubs" through deductions from match tickets, betting, broadcasting revenues, etc.
We will use the funds to build new facilities and provide scholarships and training opportunities for talented athletes.
INTERNATIONAL TOURNAMENTS AND PROMOTION
We will set a realistic target for the organization of the Olympic Games in our country and implement a strategic action plan accordingly.
We will develop sports tourism and contribute to the promotion of our country by building world-class sports facilities.
STRONG TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE
04381500
HOLISTIC PLANNING
Considering Turkey's socio-economic needs and regional transportation priorities, we will prepare a short and long term "Transportation Master Plan" with the participation of all relevant parties.
We will ensure the development of our country as the world's most important transportation and energy corridor.
We will connect Europe, Asia and the Middle East by land, sea, air and rail and make Turkey a terminal country.
RAIL TRANSPORTATION
With a new railroad drive, we will develop a national locomotive and wagon industry.
We will make railway transportation freight-oriented.
We will increase the share of railways in freight transportation by 6 times to 25% within 10 years.
We will develop High Speed Train lines in passenger transportation, taking into account efficiency and national interests.
we will quickly launch new lines and projects
We will implement new railway projects for freight and passenger transportation, with two main lines in the east-west direction and three main lines in the north-south direction.
We will establish a Central Anatolia-centered railway system that will connect all our regions.
We will complete this system by connecting to leading countries and international ports.
We will build the Black Sea coastal railway line to extend to the Batumi border gate.
We will establish a railway connection between Burdur and Isparta and Antalya.
We will realize the canceled north-south connection at the Izmit Bay crossing.
we will complete existing projects by improving them
We will complete the Eskisehir-Istanbul line, which was put into service before it was completed, in accordance with the standards.
We will integrate the railway line ending in Pendik to Marmaray.
We will immediately open the Lake Van crossing on the railway route connecting our country to Asia via Iran.
We will accelerate the GAP railway project connecting GAP to the ports in Mersin and Iskenderun.
We will complete the Kars-Tbilisi railway project as soon as possible to connect Europe to Asia with an uninterrupted railway network.
we will modernize the existing infrastructure
We will renew and electrify all obsolete railway lines.
We will reopen Haydarpaşa Station and other train stations in our cities that are out of use.
We will modernize the Samsun-Çarşamba railway, which has been abandoned to its fate.
We will modernize the lines connecting Istanbul to Europe and the south; we will
build new lines if necessary.
COMBINE TRANSPORT
We will establish transfer stations in strategic regions to develop rail-road and rail-sea combined transportation.
We will make the necessary investments for the development of transit transportation.
We will raise the standard of the existing railway network connecting Samsun Port to the Mediterranean.
We will connect Samsun port with Mersin and Iskenderun ports.
We will make Samsun Port the KEY-PORT of the Black Sea and reduce the density at the Bosphorus crossings.
urban and regional rail transportation
We will support the expansion of rail transportation systems in medium-sized and large cities.
Acting in coordination with municipalities, we will expand suburban lines.
We will establish Rail Bus systems to provide medium-distance fast transportation in rural and tourist areas.
ROAD TRANSPORTATION
provincial, district, village and urban roads
We will strengthen provincial, district and village connections that remain weak on roads.
We will especially connect villages with transportation problems to the main centers.
We will build village and provincial roads in line with the general transportation plan and regional development plans.
We will rapidly overhaul the road networks in the GAP region and tourism centers and make new investments in these areas according to need.
We will abolish the asphalt fees collected from citizens by municipalities through legal regulations.
intercity highways
We will make road investments in line with the needs of the country and regional needs, not with political considerations.
We will make the necessary improvements on divided roads that cause many accidents due to inadequate planning and low standards.
We will expand the use of high quality hot asphalt instead of low quality surface coating on roads.
We will cancel high traffic guarantees on highways built with the Build-Operate-Transfer model.
environmental awareness on highways
In residential areas where needed, we will build alternative ring roads instead of main roads that create noise and pollution.
We will bring road investments back into the scope of EIA.
We will review the 3rd Bosphorus Bridge and Northern Marmara Motorway projects.
We will eliminate the elements of these projects that pose a danger to the environment and the people of the region and may cause irreversible damage.
We will plan and realize the Çanakkale Bridge and highway crossing by taking into account the natural and historical features of the region.
We will minimize the damage caused by the Black Sea Coastal Road on the region and restore the connection of settlements to the sea.
We will re-evaluate the physical and financial assessment of the project to build a three-story Istanbul Metro and Highway Bosphorus Crossing Project in the Bosphorus.
KGM Organization and Personnel
We will strengthen the organizational structure of the General Directorate of Highways (KGM) and Regional Directorates and ensure the employment of sufficient qualified personnel.
We will improve the working and wage conditions of KGM personnel working under difficult conditions.
We will ensure that KGM staff work free from political pressure and adhere to planning principles.
MARITIME AND MARITIME TRANSPORTATION
PLANNING AND SUPERVISION
We will prepare a "Coastal Areas Management Plan" with the participation of all components of the maritime sector.
We will eliminate the deficiencies in ship tracking and monitoring systems to ensure the safety of life, property, navigation and environment in the maritime sector.
We will expand inspection and surveillance systems to all our coasts.
SHIPPING YARDS
We will make Turkey one of the important shipbuilding and repair centers in its region.
We will encourage the restructuring of small-scale shipyards into shipbuilding and maintenance-repair shipyards.
PORTS
To improve international transportation, we will improve the terminal facilities of existing ports and their connectivity with major transport corridors.
We will determine the locations of the ports to be built, taking into account road and rail connections.
AIR TRANSPORTATION
planned sectoral development
We will prepare an "Airline Master" plan with the participation of all stakeholders.
We will reorganize airport investment plans according to the master plan to be prepared and put an end to waste of resources.
We will provide legal guarantees for the sector components to act in a balanced and environmentally sensitive manner in accordance with the master plan.
AIRPORTS
We will ensure the development of airports that exceed their capacity and
encourage air carriers to use idle airports effectively.
We will ensure that those living in provinces without airports can access the nearest airport quickly, safely and cheaply.
3. We will reassess the current location of Istanbul Airport in terms of technical suitability, environmental impact and feasibility.
We will make Ankara Esenboğa Airport Turkey's second most important international flight center.
we will support the aviation industry
We will prioritize the defense of the rights of domestic airlines in bilateral and multilateral international agreements.
We will make the necessary infrastructure investments for Turkey to become a regional center in the aircraft maintenance, repair and renewal sector.
We will establish air ambulance networks in hard-to-reach areas.
We will develop R&D activities in civil air transportation.
We will support aircraft and parts production.
SAFE AND PEACEFUL TURKEY
effective fight against international terrorism
We will act in global cooperation in the fight against terrorism.
We will be guided by the principles set out in international treaties, in particular the UN anti-terrorism conventions.
We will re-establish the security of our porous borders once and for all.
We will not allow various terrorist organizations clustered behind our borders to threaten the security and peace of our country.
INTERNAL SECURITY
We will continue the fight against terrorism with the contribution of all organs of the state, the public and NGOs and with a holistic approach.
We will fight effectively at national and international level to dry up the domestic and foreign financial sources of terrorism.
We will fight against all kinds of internal and external threats and natural disasters, especially terrorism and cyber-attacks.
We will redress the victimization of our citizens who have been harmed by terrorism.
A NEW APPROACH BASED ON DEMOCRACY AND SOCIAL CONSENSUS
We will adopt a security approach based on individual rights and freedoms, social welfare, and the independence and impartiality of the judiciary.
While taking measures to ensure the security of our country, we will act with an understanding based on mutual trust between the state and citizens.
We will restore the rule of law and social consensus.
We will put an end to the understanding and practices that treat their citizens with suspicion and seek to protect or blame individuals.
We will protect the fundamental qualities of the Republic of Turkey and the achievements of our Republic.
We will establish democracy, peace and tranquility on the basis of equal citizenship without compromising national unity and sovereignty.
SECURITY FORCES
restructuring
We will create the necessary legal infrastructure for security forces to act in accordance with the principles of respect for universal human rights and the rule of law.
We will end the disproportionate use of force by ensuring that security forces are trained according to the European Code of Police Ethics.
We will ensure that the security forces are under the democratic control of the political will.
We will establish a Security Commission in the Parliament to oversee the actions and activities of the security forces.
We will exclude the security forces from all political structures and purify them from interest relations and organized sieges.
We will act with an understanding based on merit above all in the appointment of security personnel.
MORE OPPORTUNITIES, MORE RIGHTS
We will improve the professional equipment and capabilities of security forces.
We will improve the personal rights and working conditions of security forces.
We will eliminate the coefficient victimization of the personnel working in the police force in retirement.
We will ensure that security forces receive effective psychological support so that they can establish better relations with the public and perform their duties under difficult conditions.
We will ensure that the families of our martyrs and veterans live healthy and safe lives for life.
We will realize financial and institutional arrangements that will guarantee the education of the children of martyrs and veterans.
Right to Nature and Right to the City In order to protect the environment we live in and to improve our quality of life, the principles of the "right to nature" and the "right to the city" must be resolutely upheld.
CHP places the "right to nature" and the "right to the city" at the center of all its policies.
Today, problems such as climate change, deterioration in the ecological system, population growth and overexploitation of natural resources affect the whole world.
Global average temperatures are rising and sea levels are rising due to widespread snow and ice melting.
The frequency and intensity of extreme climate events such as droughts and floods are increasing worldwide.
Turkey is located in one of the regions of the world that will be most affected by climate change.
As a result of climate change, a temperature increase of 5-7 degrees Celsius and a decrease of up to 20 percent in average precipitation are projected for Turkey in the 21st century.
Those who will be most affected by climate change are the segments of society least responsible for these changes.
These include farmers, agricultural workers, fishermen and poor households facing food insecurity as they struggle to produce in an increasingly difficult climate.
In order to solve these problems that threaten the world and its living beings, it is necessary to put an end to the economic approach that only considers quantitative growth.
CHP is based on the principle of "right to nature", which gives equal importance to all the world's assets, and on the understanding of quality, sustainable growth.
In line with this principle, it is determined to move our country step by step towards a "green economy" as in developed countries.
CHP prioritizes agricultural and industrial policies that ensure the efficient use and fair distribution of sustainable resources.
It advocates supporting these policies with quality public services and innovative local government projects.
These measures will protect and strengthen highly vulnerable segments of society.
Under the CHP government, structural changes will be implemented to produce eco-friendly technology, goods and services and create employment opportunities in these sectors.
Realistic targets will be set for energy efficiency and renewable energy investments to reduce greenhouse gas emissions that cause climate change.
CHP considers the individual as a whole with the nature in which he/she lives.
The CHP's understanding of the economy is based on the principle of development of society in harmony with the environment.
In order to ensure humane and healthy living conditions for future generations, it is essential that all resources are used equitably and fairly.
Acting with this understanding, CHP shapes its nature, environment and urban policies within the framework of nature-friendly growth.
CHP aims to carry out its environmental rights and national environmental security work in partnership and in harmony with the policies of the international community.
CHP will work for our country to be among the model countries of the UN's green policies.
The CHP's development model, which is based on the fulfillment of responsibilities towards nature and future generations, will ensure that our country gains a respected place in the international community.
The CHP believes that protecting nature is a fundamental moral responsibility and works to raise awareness about the "right to nature" and fights for the protection of this right.
In a CHP government, the right of every human being and living creature to live together in a clean and protected nature will be guaranteed as a constitutional right.
environmentally friendly sustainable urbanization
In our country, the vast majority of the population now lives in cities.
The protection and cleanliness of the environment is as essential for the city as it is for the countryside.
For this reason, the CHP's understanding of urbanization is not only socially just and developmentalist, but also nature-friendly.
Urban policies should be based on an approach that is environmentally and socio-economically sustainable.
The cleanliness and safety of cities must be taken into account and sustainable resources must be used efficiently.
CHP attaches importance to the creation of "smart cities" in our country.
Smart cities aim to make widespread use of new technologies, protect ecological balance and increase energy savings.
The aim is to preserve natural resources for future generations, to protect the quality of life and natural balance, and to develop green building and green relationship networks.
In order to realize these goals, new and smart housing types that can create alternatives to existing housing types, primarily increasing energy savings, should be designed.
A CHP government will take the city from gray to green, both materially and spiritually.
It will implement policies to sustain the vitality of people and the ecosystem and design the cities of the future with this understanding.
CHP will increase citizens' access to green spaces and clean air, and ensure that they live healthy lives in healthy cities.
With the CHP's "bio-region" approach, water basins, soil, climate, flora and fauna relations will be taken into consideration, and strategies will be developed for the balanced use of existing resources in the regions.
Ensuring that city dwellers benefit from all kinds of infrastructure, housing facilities and cultural activities is among the priorities of the CHP government.
CHP's urban policies will ensure that our cities have easy access to all infrastructure services, especially healthy drinking water and sewage.
Under CHP rule, safe and easy transportation facilities will be improved in cities.
The budget allocated to urban and intercity transportation will be increased and
urban transportation will be planned based on new techniques and expertise.
In order to prevent traffic congestion, all transportation facilities, especially rail systems, will be rapidly developed.
Innovative spatial arrangements such as quiet streets, play streets, walking streets will be part of the urban design.
Pedestrian and bicycle priority arrangements will be made in urban traffic.
Parking areas will be organized in a way to reduce traffic density and the long-term transfer of these areas to the private sector for rent generation will be prevented.
inclusive urbanization
One of the most important problems Turkey faces is marginalization, segregation and exclusion.
Inequality is at the root of these problems.
Class, ethnic and sectarian divisions disrupt the social fabric and weaken trust and solidarity in social life.
CHP will solve these problems, which stem from inequality and destabilize cities, with the principle of "inclusive urbanization".
CHP government will integrate segregated cities and strengthen social solidarity with its "inclusive urbanization" approach.
All city dwellers should be able to benefit from urban services at the highest level and have easy access to all kinds of common and public spaces.
The division of cities between protected villas, slums, slums, slums, concrete towers and business centers must end.
With the support of architects, designers and planners, urban policies should be developed to bring together people from different backgrounds living in different places.
CHP argues that the problems of segregation and exclusion can be solved starting from the streets.
Streets, districts, neighborhoods and cities must be made safe for all residents.
Streets and squares should be full of people and pedestrian-friendly.
Neighbors should get to know each other, neighborhood ties should be strengthened and solidarity between neighbors should be increased.
People living in the same place should feel that they belong.
Citizens from different backgrounds and all segments of society should be able to build reconciliatory relations with each other.
Streets must become places of justice and tolerance.
CHP advocates that all citizens should be supported to live together and relate to each other without giving in to the fragile trend of multiculturalism and the pressure for assimilation in our cities.
CHP municipalities are pioneers in developing sports facilities and playgrounds, parks and gardens, fairs and festivals for citizens to spend quality time together.
The AKP's construction and rent-oriented urbanization approach leads to a decrease in the quality of life in the city and increases social exclusion.
However, urban and housing policies should not aim at rent and speculation, but at uniting citizens from different origins.
CHP opposes the commodification of public assets and their transformation into exclusionary private property.
Revenues from urban rents should be used for the benefit of society.
The public must be given a say in the use of financial resources.
INNOVATION AND CREATIVITY-BASED URBANIZATION
Today, cities are the locomotive of economic development.
This is because new knowledge, technologies and products created by the knowledge economy are developed in cities.
That is why CHP attaches great importance to revitalizing our cities and developing their innovative capacities.
The vitality of cities depends on meeting their housing, workplace and transportation needs, especially physical infrastructure.
Cities should have a rich and diversified consumption infrastructure.
CHP argues that every component of the trade and retail sector, from bazaar shopkeepers to online shopping, from boutique stores to department stores, from weekly markets to shopping malls, should be supported separately and together.
The main element of mobilizing the creative and innovative potential of cities and revitalizing them is the breakthroughs in education, science and technology.
However, the AKP government has blocked the way to science, innovation and technological development by turning the education system into a jigsaw puzzle, restricting freedom of thought and putting universities under pressure.
CHP prioritizes the development of R&D, creative design and innovation activities in universities, research institutions and high-tech sectors within the framework of "innovation-based urbanization".
As important as new investments are for the development of cities, the training of a skilled workforce is equally important.
Because creative work today has become the work of a skilled and specialized group.
The economic base of the city should be broadened and economic activities in cities should be diversified in order to attract highly skilled specialists and creatives.
Cooperation between firms and regional clusters is made possible by the flow of information and inter-institutional linkages that can be established through geographical proximity.
What makes a city attractive is culture and arts, which are important sources of creativity and innovation.
The coexistence of working life, living spaces and leisure activities creates an important attraction for both new investments and skilled labor.
Creative people such as scientists, engineers, architects, writers, artists, advertisers and designers prefer to live in vibrant cities.
CHP attaches great importance to the development of cultural activities and cultural industry in our cities.
The CHP considers arts and culture as one of the main elements of open-mindedness, tolerance, raising civilized and virtuous citizens as well as economic development.
Theaters, orchestra halls, art galleries, libraries; music, film and television studios; media organizations and advertising companies bring revival to the city.
The cultural economy makes the city attractive, exciting and creative.
Work in the field of culture and the arts enables creativity to flourish and flourish.
Aware of this, the CHP is determined to make a breakthrough in all these areas.
Under AKP rule, art and artists are not given the importance they need.
Moreover, all kinds of creative activities are suppressed and urban life is dampened.
CHP's understanding of culture and art is based on freedom, pluralism and creativity.
CHP believes that all obstacles to the arts should be removed.
Against AKP's conservative, oppressive and rent-based urbanization approach, CHP advocates innovation, creativity and culture-based urbanization.
CHP promises to create vibrant and bright cities for our citizens.
urbanization policies
The principles of the "right to nature" and the "right to the city" require supporting the struggle of urban dwellers for their needs.
For this reason, CHP is based on participation and equality in urban planning.
In CHP government, city residents, NGOs, universities and other stakeholders will be included in decision-making processes.
The appropriateness and validity of the projects will be handled within the framework of objective criteria and with a solidarity approach.
Innovative urban policies will be designed within the framework of "slow planning" and "slow city" approach.
Instead of demolition, the principles of in-situ transformation, preservation and development, and elimination of existing physical and social barriers will be taken as basis.
Urban regeneration policies will be based on a "process management" approach that takes into account economic and social dimensions, instead of imposing and hasty approaches.
CHP government will act with the understanding of "sharing cities" and instead of competition between cities, cooperation and experience sharing will be the basis.
Urbanism that unites in terms of resources, technology and knowledge, not separates, will be the fundamental principle.
At the same time, our cities will have a presence on global platforms and will be able to cooperate with local governments of other states.
In the CHP government, the confusion of plans and authorities between the central administration and local governments will be eliminated.
In project development and implementation, the imposing and top-down attitude of the central administration will be put an end to, and the principle of pluralism will be adopted in local governments.
The resources provided by the central administration will be distributed according to needs and local governments will be able to decide how to use them.
Local governments will be treated fairly in service delivery and party discrimination will be ended.
In order to ensure the principle of transparency, revenues and expenditures of local governments will be made open to public scrutiny.
AN ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY SOCIAL LIFE
04381500
ECOLOGICAL CONSTITUTION AND LEGISLATION
We will prepare an Ecological Constitution in the light of the principle of immediate protection and restoration.
We will prepare a "National Climate Change Strategy Document" that will analyze the impacts, vulnerabilities and risks of climate change in Turkey and develop adaptation strategies.
We will set binding, measurable and enforceable targets to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
With the "Climate Fund" we will create in the general budget, we will create resources to combat climate change.
In environmental lawsuits, we will not charge court fees, and we will cover expert witness fees through the Treasury.
We will increase energy and carbon efficiencies by combining incentive and constraint policies.
We will set VAT rates on transportation vehicles and electrical goods based on energy efficiency standards and encourage the use of environmentally friendly products.
A SUSTAINABLE LIFE
We will increase energy efficiency and reduce foreign dependency by using renewable energy resources such as solar and wind with environmentally friendly technologies.
We will ensure that mines, water resources and all natural resources are utilized in the national interest and for the benefit of society, within the framework of the principle of sensitivity to nature and in the most efficient way.
We will support practices that save energy and water.
We will solve the problems caused by climate change and ecosystem destruction by establishing areas that aim to protect and enhance biodiversity.
We will emphasize the use of public transportation by sea and railways to combat global warming.
We will introduce the concept of nature rights into the education system to restore the nature we have destroyed and to instill a culture of nature.
A SOCIETY CLOSER TO NATURE
We will increase the ratio of urban green areas per capita in every province.
We will prioritize measures to reduce air pollution.
Instead of poor quality coal distributed with public funds, we will prevent air pollution by providing free natural gas to citizens in need in areas with infrastructure.
We will solve the housing problem by producing robust and durable ecological housing projects instead of concrete towers that leave our children without air and natural spaces.
With the "Two Trees for Every Three Cars" campaign, we will design parking lots aesthetically and in harmony with the city.
We will make those who use and pollute pay for environmental pollution.
We will not let paying the price become a permanent right to pollute.
ANIMAL RIGHTS
We will ensure that the natural environment of animals is regulated and that mistreatment of animals is covered by deterrent criminal laws.
We will prevent wild animal trafficking and illegal breeding farms. We will
ban the sale of live animals in "pet shops"; we
will ensure the closure of circuses, dolphin parks and similar institutions where animal torture is systematized.
The limited areas allowed for animals should be strictly controlled and brought in line with universal norms;
We will ensure that species in danger of extinction are actively protected.
WASTE MANAGEMENT
We will support and accelerate R&D efforts to use waste agricultural products as raw materials for renewable energy.
We will establish the necessary incentive mechanisms for municipalities and industries to treat wastewater.
We will ensure the concentration of industry in environmentally friendly Organized Industrial Zones and establish the necessary legal infrastructure for OIZs to effectively carry out wastewater treatment.
We will raise awareness of all citizens, private and public institutions on waste separation and support recycling practices with economic measures.
We will not carry out mining and hydroelectric power plants in internationally protected areas.
We will develop measures to prevent pollution at source and ensure waste recovery.
MANAGEMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES
We will put an end to the transformation of our natural resources, which are the common asset of our people, into a means of commercial rent-making as a result of corruption and mismanagement.
We will adopt the approach that human beings are part of the ecological balance, not its owner.
We will implement long-term plans for the protection and development of our increasingly strategically important water resources.
We will support the dissemination of awareness-raising activities for the effective and sustainable use of water.
We will not allow the transfer of public water use rights.
We will enact a fair "Water Law" to be prepared within the framework of scientific criteria with the participation of all parties.
SENSITIVE APPROACH TO THE ENVIRONMENT AND SOCIAL FABRIC
We will provide the necessary resources to combat erosion, which is rapidly destroying our fertile soils.
We will handle Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) with care and transparency as a requirement of a human and environmentally sensitive approach.
We will establish the necessary mechanisms for public participation in EIA processes in line with EU legislation.
Alongside the EIA, we will ensure that a comprehensive Social Impact Assessment (SIA) is conducted.
We will evaluate the claims that the Green Road Project is designed to create a new wave of development and address the concerns of our people on this issue.
ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY PRODUCTION
We will encourage agricultural production in accordance with ecological conditions and soil characteristics.
We will develop an adaptation strategy against the impacts of climate change in the agriculture sector.
We will work with research universities to find new ways to meet the nutritional needs of our citizens with local resources.
We will put population movements based on a return to nature and ecological family farming at the center of our agriculture, nature and social policies.
We will make pastures no longer private property.
CITIES WITH HIGH QUALITY OF LIFE
04381500
SMART CITIES
We will ensure that IT innovations are at the forefront of sustainable development.
With smart cities, smart energy grids, smart metering and smart transportation systems, we will expand the impact of information technologies and make daily life easier.
We will develop the software of the applications as open source for the widespread use of smart city systems.
We will ensure the preparation of provincial digital plans and strategies for the transformation to smart cities.
We will popularize the open state and open data approach in local governments.
We will encourage the installation of distribution networks compatible with the new IT infrastructure in all new houses and buildings.
CONTEMPORARY CITIES
PLANNING CRITERIA
- We will prepare a "National Spatial Development" strategy plan.
We will develop an integrated planning approach at regional, basin and urban-rural scales.
We will carry out basin management in participatory environments with a common vision, common strategy and common project systematics.
We will prepare risk, value, poverty, density and silhouette maps of cities.
We will make sure that all strategic projects and investment decisions are planned with these maps in mind.
We will determine livability criteria, evaluate and develop cities within the framework of indices to be prepared in line with these criteria.
URBAN PLANNING
We will prevent the problems caused by over-planning and over-growth of cities and improve the quality of life in cities.
We will realize public land production to ensure orderly urban development and to be used in housing projects for low-income citizens.
We will balance economy and ecology in the development of cities.
We will put an end to the use of public land for rent-seeking against the interests of city residents.
We will prevent traffic congestion by increasing public transportation opportunities and improving transportation networks.
we will make a modern zoning law
We will harmonize the Zoning Law and legislation with international standards.
We will revise the Zoning Law and legislation to be based on urban regeneration rather than urban growth.
We will include regulations on construction, retrofitting and infrastructure in the new Zoning Law.
In the new Zoning Law, we will pursue energy- and carbon-efficient practices, environmental protection, and the development of open spaces and quality public areas.
We will implement risk mitigation tools, methods and avoidance plans.
We will grant a new deadline to citizens who have buildings on 2/B land and have not been able to apply or have applied but have not been able to pay the price due to the high price or insufficient installment period.
We will solve the problems arising from municipal high-rise without disadvantaging the citizens who have accepted and paid the price.
According to the Law No. 2981 on Zoning Amnesty, citizens who have a Title Deed Allocation Certificate or who have deserved a Title Deed Allocation Certificate but have not yet received it will be given their title deeds within one year.
Provided that they have paid the initial fee, no additional fee will be charged to our citizens who will be allocated title deeds.
we will adopt a collective design approach
We will prioritize shared decision-making and co-design through strategic design plans.
We will develop new urban models in vision workshops.
We will ensure that public institutions, civil society organizations and the private sector participate in these workshops.
We will establish "Anatolian Design Workshops" (ATA) to provide a platform for designers and all stakeholders to come together and exchange ideas.
We will shape the "Harmonious Building", "Green Building", "Living Street", "Our Neighborhood" projects in cooperation in these workshops.
We will make innovation and creativity the basis of our designs.
We will create industry and university meeting environments and develop cooperation programs and projects for the development of innovative and creative sectors.
We will introduce incentives for island-based construction instead of parcel-based construction.
We will prioritize blue and green economies for sectoral diversification.
We will also support the protection sector, which is as important as the real estate and finance sectors.
HOUSING
We will reorganize TOKI according to the purpose of its establishment.
We will ensure that TOKİ uses all its resources for the production of social housing.
We will prevent TOKİ from building uniform housing units that are incompatible with the physical characteristics of cities and do not take into account their historical, natural and local identities.
We will determine the settlements where TOKI will build housing, starting with the areas where the need is greatest.
Through TOKI, we will build healthy housing units for all segments of society in need of support, especially for our disabled citizens.
we will build housing for low- and middle-income citizens
By reorganizing the legislation on housing cooperatives, we will enable TOKI to provide housing construction loans to low-income cooperative members who do not own a house.
We will make legal arrangements for the private sector to produce housing for low-income people.
We will offer affordable payment options for low-income people in the sale of TOKİ-produced housing.
We will make it possible for housing associations and cooperatives to build social housing for rent for low-income people.
We will provide rent assistance to our low-income citizens living in rented houses according to their income levels so that they can live in healthy houses.
URBAN TRANSFORMATION
In urban transformation, we will give the authority to local governments.
We will see urban transformation as a means of increasing the welfare of urban dwellers, not urban rent.
we will adopt a compromise approach in urban transformation
We will act with the principles of "Project Legitimacy" and "Project Democracy" in urban transformation.
We will ensure that our citizens are organized and participate in the decision-making processes of urban transformation projects through representatives of their own choice.
We will minimize the negative effects of urban transformation on space and life through projects to be developed with the participation of city residents.
we will act with the understanding of in-situ transformation
We will develop in-situ transformation models for minimum displacement.
We will observe belonging and neighborhood relations in urban transformation.
We will develop financial systems to compensate for losses where displacement is unavoidable.
In urban transformation projects, we will make Social Impact Assessment (SIA) reports mandatory in addition to EIA.
We will establish an
"Urban Transformation Fund" to finance the transformation.
We will enable low-income beneficiaries to buy houses built as a result of urban transformation through cross-financing models.
We will utilize "Project Partnership Share" (POP), "Transfer of Development Rights", AL-VER Bonus and Value Added Sharing (DAP) to fund urban transformation.
RISK REDUCTION AND DISASTER PLANNING
Through urban dilution, we will create easily accessible and safe areas wherever earthquake risk exists.
We will prevent the misuse of these areas.
In settlements with high risk of natural disasters, we will prepare measures to be taken against disasters and post-disaster response planning together with local governments.
We will create both national and local platforms for risk mitigation decisions to be taken together with citizens living in areas under risk.
We will prepare "avoidance plans" with municipalities to reduce risks.
We will reorganize the distribution of duties and responsibilities between AFAD, the Ministry of Environment and Urbanization and local governments in the implementation of "shelter plans" in cities.
we will pay special attention to urban regeneration in risky areas.
We will reorganize the legislation on urban transformation in disaster-prone areas.
We will accelerate urban transformation by increasing resources in areas with high disaster risk.
In earthquake-prone areas, we will realize urban transformation without jeopardizing the safety of our citizens, and we will produce safe houses and give them to their rightful owners.
INSTITUTIONAL AND LEGAL ARRANGEMENTS
We will reorganize all zoning legislation, including the Building Inspection Law, TCIP Law, Law on Transformation of Areas Under Disaster Risk and Zoning Law, in a holistic manner and in a way to prevent confusion of authority.
Through the "Risk Management Coordination and Implementation Center" we will establish, we will prepare risk maps and risk mitigation plans for every area, street and building.
We will reorganize the legislation of the Natural Catastrophe Insurance Pool (TCIP).
We will ensure that the system is operated with the goal of reducing risks and is linked to local governments.
ISTANBUL
WE WILL MAKE ISTANBUL THE CENTER OF VASIATED WORKFORCE
We will transform Istanbul into an inspiring, design-oriented, innovation-led "creative city" with a fully skilled workforce.
We will support the creative workforce and make it the driving force of Istanbul's economic dynamism.
We will ensure that Istanbul is a rapidly prospering city that attracts the highest level of visitors, skilled labor and investment.
We will invest in the knowledge economy, especially in information technology infrastructure, which is the most important factor that increases the skilled human capital in Istanbul.
We will ensure that R&D expenditures made by the public and private sectors are concentrated in Istanbul.
We will support the IT economy in Istanbul while simultaneously promoting the culture industry.
CITY OF CULTURE ISTANBUL
We will make Istanbul a global cultural center with its historical texture, natural beauties and geographical location.
We will support all cultural aspects of Istanbul.
We will ensure that Istanbul becomes a world city known for culture and arts events, local and international food culture, galleries, studios and workshops, and festivals.
We will create an Istanbul where all identities live in peace and harmony, where cultural differences are seen as richness.
We will ensure that Istanbul is a city where every religion, sect, ethnic group, sexual orientation and gender live freely.
STRONG INFRASTRUCTURE, SECURE CITY ISTANBUL
We will solve all infrastructure problems of Istanbul, especially transportation problems.
We will ensure that Istanbul is among the most developed cities in Europe in terms of quality of life.
We will increase the share of rail systems in Istanbul transportation to 50% by preserving the historical and cultural texture.
We will place maritime transportation at the center of Istanbul's transportation network.
We will create squares in Istanbul where city dwellers can exist in public space.
We will fully implement the earthquake recovery plan without losing a moment to prepare Istanbul for a possible disaster in the best possible way.
ANKARA
TURKEY'S HEART, POWERFUL PRINCIPAL ANKARA
We will protect the Ankara of the Republic.
We will strengthen Ankara's functions as a capital city and will not allow the headquarters of state institutions and public banks to move to other provinces.
We will develop new projects for Ankara to lead all Anatolian cities in science, R&D and high technology.
We will make Ankara Turkey's main communication center for air, road and rail transportation in Anatolia.
We will develop Ankara on the axis of an ideal urbanization model that all cities in Anatolia will follow.
we will develop the municipality with research and development and innovative policies
In Ankara, we will implement an innovation approach focused on traditional sectors and focus on economic activities that produce high added value, especially in the furniture, textile and machinery industries.
We will strengthen R&D activities and software studies for the defense industry by ensuring cooperation between technopolises in Ankara.
the capital of culture and art
We will make Ankara competitive with world cities in terms of artistic production and scientific research.
We will make a tourism breakthrough centered on Ankara's historical richness, especially its cultural heritage dating back to Anatolian civilizations.
We will revitalize Ankara's urban centers culturally.
We will create campuses that combine the architectural and cultural characteristics of different regions of Turkey.
IZMIR
INNOVATION
In cooperation with universities, we will accelerate efforts to harmonize Izmir's existing industrial infrastructure with information technologies.
We will encourage design departments of universities and companies producing final products to develop joint projects for branding.
We will turn Izmir into a world giant in the biomedical industry.
We will encourage R&D studies in the field of renewable energy in order to utilize the geothermal, wind and solar energy potential of the region.
We will carry out effective clustering activities so that industrial enterprises in Izmir can benefit from information technologies and the services offered by creative industries at the highest level.
AGRICULTURE
We will double agricultural subsidies and develop agriculture-based industries in Izmir and its immediate surroundings.
We will encourage high value-added production, especially organic farms.
LOGISTICS
We will make Izmir one of the important connection points and logistics centers between Asia and European markets.
We will ensure that the city gets the share it deserves from the central budget and make İzmir one of the leading port cities of the Mediterranean basin.
TOURISM CITY
We will increase tourism diversity in Izmir with investments in the city, health, cruise, thermal, culture-history, sports, congress and fair sub-sectors.
We will make Izmir, one of the most advanced cities of our country in terms of quality of life, a city where tourism is vibrant for 12 months.
We will connect Selçuk and Bergama, the leading centers of historical tourism, to Izmir city center and the airport via rail systems.
We will make Izmir a globally recognized health tourism center.
We will ensure that Izmir gets at least a 10% share of the global medical tourism pie, which exceeds one hundred billion dollars, and hosts over one million patients and tourists.
LOCAL GOVERNMENTS
-31754381500
DECENTRALIZED GOVERNANCE
We will consult local governments in centralized planning and decision-making processes.
We will ensure service integrity between central and local governments.
We will prevent the central administration from abusing its supervisory authority over local governments.
We will eliminate the multilateralism in plan approval and transfer the approval authority to local governments.
We will ensure planning integrity in local government legislation.
In provinces with metropolitan status, we will restore legal personality to villages.
We will prevent opposition municipalities from being unable to produce services.
RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
we will relieve local governments from debt burden
We will provide the necessary financial resources to reduce the debt burden transferred from district and town municipalities to metropolitan municipalities.
We will make the financial resources of local governments commensurate with their responsibilities.
We will restructure the Bank of Provinces to meet the financial and technical needs of local governments.
local governments that can generate resources and have a say in resource utilization
With the "Local Government Reform", we will establish a municipalism understanding that can generate new resources.
We will open the lands transferred to the treasury with the metropolitan law to the use of local governments to be used for the healthy and planned development of the city.
We will ensure the effective participation of local governments in decision-making processes in the allocation of natural resources, mines and stone/sand quarries to the private sector.
We will distribute financial resources fairly
We will transfer the management of Iller Bank to local governments in a way that does not lead to political favoritism.
We will reorganize the principles regarding the allocation of resources in a way that does not allow for differences in practice.
We will give the authority and responsibility directly to local governments for the use of the 10% of real estate tax contribution for the protection of historical and cultural values.
TRANSPARENCY IN LOCAL GOVERNANCE
We will ensure that municipalities' investment decisions, tenders and expenditures are regularly published on the internet and open to public scrutiny.
We will not be satisfied with the legal requirement of announcing the zoning plans by posting them on the internet, but we will allow them to be monitored continuously on the internet.
We will make it a legal obligation for the wealth declarations of mayors and executives to be renewed every year and published online.
We will ensure that important meetings involving decision-making processes related to the city, especially the municipal council, city council, city assembly, economic and social council meetings, are broadcast live on local radio and television channels.
PARTICIPATION IN LOCAL GOVERNANCE
We will establish city reconciliation boards to resolve disputes between citizens and the municipality.
We will make neighborhood assemblies and forums effective components of participatory governance in the city.
We will encourage local civil initiatives and support neighborhood organizations.
We will ensure that local governments work in close cooperation with professional chambers in the planning of cities.
In the planning and design of cities, we will take into account the priorities of the people living in the neighborhood by applying the neighborhood action plan approach.
CHAIRMEN
We will create the necessary infrastructure for mukhtars to serve according to the requirements of the age, and improve their personal rights and working conditions.
In big cities, we will reduce the size of neighborhood mukhtars' offices and allow all citizens to receive individual services.
We will ensure that neighborhood mukhtars have a voice in the municipal councils and village mukhtars have a voice in the provincial general assemblies on issues related to their areas of responsibility.
REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT
04381500
REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT
We will restructure regions to make them more resilient to ecological threats.
In rural areas, we will bring the quality of basic public services, especially education and health, to the same level as urban areas.
In order to rapidly reduce the economic and social development gap between regions, we will rapidly complete all regional development projects under implementation, particularly GAP, DAP, DOKAP, ZBK, YHGP.
We will facilitate access to financial resources for less developed regions.
We will increase Turkey's alignment with EU regional policies and ensure wider and more efficient use of funds linked to this process.
we will develop local resources for regional development
We will promote regional specialization in line with the local resources and know-how of the regions.
We will ensure the appropriate use of resources through innovative regional policies and plans.
In all regions, we will support highly competitive industrial sectors based on local resources.
We will encourage R&D activities in cooperation with universities to mobilize local potential.
we will strengthen interregional cooperation
Instead of a province and city-based development model, we will adopt an approach based on regional development centers.
We will concentrate infrastructure services and investments in the centers of development basins.
We will prepare industrial inventories in underdeveloped regions and create regional production and development zones with appropriate sectoral characteristics.
We will promote the establishment of relationships and partnerships between different regions, based on the transfer of resources and knowledge.
We will increase transportation and communication investments to enable regions to communicate effectively with each other and the outside world, and to transfer goods and information.
URBAN NETWORKS
We will recognize the social, cultural and economic diversity of different regions and cities as a key unifying force for development and transformation.
By enabling cities to cooperate with each other, we will unlock new potentials for the future.
We will carry out a structural transformation for cities from traditional areas of specialization to rational areas of specialization.
We will form urban coalitions to ensure administrative integrity and coordination among cities that are economically interdependent with each other.
DEVELOPMENT AGENCIES
We will increase the effectiveness of Development Agencies and ensure that all relevant CSOs are represented in their management and decision-making processes, regardless of their proximity to the government.
We will make Development Agencies more functional by redefining their areas of responsibility and the geographical units they cover.
We will ensure that the resources distributed by Development Agencies are used effectively and fairly.
With the Entrepreneur Support Office we will establish within the Development Agencies, we will provide expert support on a sectoral basis for all business processes from the feasibility stage to the launch of the final product to the market.
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT OF EAST AND SOUTHEAST ANATOLIA
prioritized investment areas
With the public investments to be made, we will increase the growth rate in the region by 2% above Turkey's average.
With the Family Insurance Program, we will effectively fight poverty in the region and reduce income inequality between regions.
We will increase consumption and revitalize the economy in the region through aids to be provided through the Family Insurance Program.
By 2025, we will raise the average income per capita in the region to 70% of the average in Turkey.
In the region, which has a very high solar energy capacity, we will encourage investments in this field and establish a new generation solar cell industry.
We will create petrochemical-based industrial clusters in the region.
We will remove sugar factories from the scope of privatization and revive the sugar industry.
We will revitalize the potential of the mining sector in the region, based on the safety of workers.
correct and appropriate encouragement
We will provide zero-interest and long-term loans for selected investments in the East and Southeast.
We will introduce a new, concrete and effective sector-based investment incentive scheme.
We will provide strong incentives for domestic and foreign capital to invest directly in new plants and factories.
We will support SMEs and family businesses in the region and expand the Small Enterprise Credit.
We will rapidly establish an institutional structure that can deliver economic incentives and social assistance for development directly to the people of the region, the unemployed and the poor.
We will complete the GAP rapidly
We will support the development of GAP's priority and sustainable sectors such as renewable energy, organic agriculture, organic textiles, organic food, technology and tourism through sectoral clusters.
We will rapidly complete the Southeastern Anatolia Project (GAP) in a balanced manner with all its dimensions.
We will prevent the misuse of resources allocated to GAP.
we will ensure interregional integration
With more than 16 billion TL of railway investments, we will open the region to the Mediterranean and Black Sea ports and neighboring countries.
We will rapidly complete the Kars-Tbilisi railway and develop economic and commercial relations between Eastern Anatolia and the Caucasus and Central Asia.
We will finish the Ankara-Diyarbakır high speed train line.
CITIZEN AND VALUE-BASED FOREIGN POLICY
06731000
There are four main elements shaping the CHP's foreign policy.
The first is a citizen-based foreign policy approach that prioritizes the security, peace and welfare of our citizens.
The second is the values coming from the foundation of the CHP and social democracy.
The third is the idea of pluralism based on Turkey's historical background, geographical location and cultural richness.
The fourth element is the understanding of developing regional cooperation, alliances and partnerships that will increase our openness to and integration with the world.
CHP is citizen-centered,
based on values,
pluralistic and open to the world,
will implement a foreign policy at peace with the world.
DANGEROUS LONELINESS: peace neither at home nor in the world
The AKP is committed to improving our relations with our neighbors and
He came to power in a favorable foreign policy environment where powerful actors, including the US, supported Turkey.
Rapprochement diplomacy was established with Greece and Adana with Syria,
Eurasian Protocols were signed with Russia.
Leading EU members and the US have sought to remove obstacles to Turkey's EU accession process.
Today, Turkey's relations with all its neighbors have deteriorated and relations with the EU and the US have reached a breaking point.
The AKP has dragged Turkey into a worthless and dangerous isolation in its region and the world.
The AKP's sectarian and adventurous foreign policy, its overbearing tone towards its neighbors and its conservative authoritarianism have changed this positive image of Turkey.
Turkey has ceased to be a model country.
The AKP's efforts to become a regional power in the Middle East, while turning its back on the Trans-Atlantic, Caucasus and Central Asian world, have been a complete failure.
Turkey has been made a part of the divisions and conflicts in neighboring countries and has been reduced to a country that covets the territorial integrity of its neighbors.
All our citizens are paying the price of the AKP's adventurous foreign policy.
In some lands in the Middle East, even their safety is threatened, simply because they are citizens of the Republic of Turkey.
Our citizens cannot trade with many countries and are excluded from important trade routes.
Turkey is no longer taken seriously in its region and the world, excluded from international processes, and even perceived as an open enemy by some of its neighbors.
The AKP's foreign policy has ensured "peace neither at home nor in the world".
The AKP's foreign policy management has caused great damage to the identity and accumulated experience created by the Republic in the world and in its own region.
citizen-centered foreign policy
The priority in foreign policy is the security, peace and prosperity of our citizens.
The CHP will defend and protect the lives, rights and welfare of our citizens in the most effective way at all times and in every part of the world.
Our geography is full of dangers as well as opportunities.
States are weakening, tribal and sectarian conflicts are escalating, and criminal and terrorist organizations are turning countries into bloodbaths.
As we think about the future of our country, it is necessary to closely monitor these dangers and ensure the safety of our citizens.
Under CHP rule, the state will not endanger the lives of its citizens with its policies, but will be an actor that reassures its citizens wherever they are in the world.
Protecting the legitimate rights of our entrepreneurs and increasing investment opportunities will be among our prioritized foreign policy objectives.
Under the CHP government, international cooperation will be established against terrorism, especially in our border regions, and a rational security policy will be pursued.
In particular, coordination between the EU, US and Russian security structures against radical terrorist organizations will contribute.
Turkey's goal should be to contribute to strengthening the security institutions of the countries in the region under modern principles in order to prevent terrorist organizations and sectarian wars from harming the people of the region and our citizens.
To ensure security in the region, it is necessary to lay the foundation for strong regional cooperation.
values-based foreign policy
The sources of our values are to be found in the history of our Republic and in social democracy.
CHP will pursue a peaceful foreign policy.
Pacifism is one of the most important goals that our founding leader Mustafa Kemal Atatürk set for us with the phrase "peace at home, peace in the world".
Pacifism is the guarantee of stability, peace and prosperity in the region and the world.
The CHP will work for peaceful and diplomatic solutions to all foreign policy problems.
The foreign policy of the CHP government will be based on human rights and freedoms.
It is one of the most important goals of the CHP that human rights become the fundamental determinant of the institutions and rules of international law in our region and the world.
The CHP government will work in cooperation with international organizations and non-governmental organizations to strengthen human rights.
Turkey will be an exemplary country that respects human rights; it will become a leading country and a staunch supporter of human rights organizations.
International law is the basis for the legitimacy of foreign policy.
CHP's foreign policy will be based on respect for international law.
Turkey will become an actor that respects international law and contributes to the development of international law.
CHP will conduct its foreign policy in harmony with multilateral institutions and the international community.
Turkey will make all kinds of contributions to ensure peace, stability and development in all international organizations of which we are a member, especially in the UN.
It will be in contact with all parties in case of disputes.
CHP will respect the independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity of countries.
The foreign policy of the CHP government will be egalitarian.
Turkey will act with the awareness that every country has equal rights and should be respected equally.
Turkey will not act as a "big brother" to any country, but will approach all its interlocutors as "equal partners".
The foreign policy of the CHP government will be solidarist.
CHP will work for the establishment of social justice all over the world and for the elimination of economic inequalities and injustices in income distribution.
Eradicating poverty and conditions that hurt human dignity will be one of the primary goals of the CHP.
Turkey's diversity and multiculturalism is its most important foreign policy strength.
Pre-AKP governments tried to emphasize Turkey's multidimensional identity in foreign policy.
Turkey can be connected to another geography with every culture it harbors.
Turkey is a unique country with its experience of democracy, its relations with the West, its beliefs and values, and its secularism.
Turkey bears the cultural characteristics of different regions.
For this reason, countries around us with different cultures feel close to Turkey.
As long as it maintains its multicolor and polyphony, it will be the most important center of attraction in its region.
Turkey will become a center of stability where the culture and religious traditions of Anatolia, with its secular structure respectful of all religious and sectarian identities, will shed light on all countries in the region.
Our foreign policy should be at an equal distance to all cultures, religions and sects and participate in world politics for a world where they live in peace and tranquility.
This is why the CHP defends the principle of secularism, which ensures equality between all beliefs in foreign policy.
That is why, in foreign policy, we will strictly adhere to all the achievements of our Republic, especially secularism, which is the guarantee of freedom, equality and democratic ways of life and the basis of social harmony.
foreign policy open to the world
CHP will accelerate its efforts for regional integration.
In this context, the conclusion of free trade agreements, agreements for the mutual promotion and protection of investments, free movement arrangements, cooperation agreements in the fields of science, culture and education will be accelerated and more importantly, effective implementation of these agreements will be ensured.
Under CHP leadership, Turkey will be more open to its region and the world than ever before.
The European orientation, which was deeply rooted in the history of Turkish foreign policy, would be continued under the CHP government.
The AKP's ideological obsessions will put an end to the Middle Easternization of Turkey and Turkish foreign policy.
CHP defines Europe as a set of values based on democracy, human rights and the social state.
Being part of a Europe defined in this way will strengthen Turkey.
The EU countries and
the US continue to lead in terms of their capacity for technological innovation, new institution building and new international partnerships.
Turkey should be part of this family that values human rights, democracy, education, technology, women and the arts.
The EU prioritizes neighborhood, migration and energy policies towards the nearby regions.
Turkey's participation in a new enlargement process depends on its contribution to policies in these areas.
It depends on internalizing EU values and representing them in its immediate environment.
Only the CHP has the vision to revive Turkey's stalled EU process.
Together with its leftist, social democratic allies, the CHP will both contribute to the reform of Europe and open the doors closed to Turkey.
The CHP initiated Turkey's EU candidacy and it is the CHP that will successfully complete this process.
The system created in the Middle East after World War II under the influence of extra-regional dynamics is struggling to meet the expectations of the peoples of the region for freedom and prosperity.
The emerging authoritarian regimes are collapsing one by one as a result of the developments in the region.
However, the movements that started with the democratic political demands of the peoples were used by radical organizations to transform them back into dictatorial regimes.
Further complicating this dangerous course is the fomenting of a sectarian war in our region.
It is the peoples of the region who are oppressed by these wars and who expect peace, freedom and a humane life.
These peoples have always envied Turkey for the great opportunities that our Republic has provided to its people in terms of freedoms and prosperity.
CHP will restore Turkey's position as a credible, reliable and exemplary problem-solving country in the Middle East.
The imperious tone, aggressive attitude and sectarian policies towards our neighbors in the Middle East will be abandoned and replaced by constructive dialogue and good, lasting and sustainable relations.
Turkey, whose European orientation is revitalized, will be more active in the Balkans.
A Turkey that adopts a policy free of ideological obsessions and sectarianism will revitalize its relations in North Africa.
A Turkey that accepts its friends as equals and becomes a center of attraction again with its good relations with the Western world will be able to strengthen its relations with the Central Asian Turkic Republics, increase economic integration and serve as a bridge between these countries and the Western world.
CHP will open Turkish foreign policy to the emerging geographies of the world.
Turkey's presence in these geographies will be carried beyond token, gaudy visits only through multilateral policies to be implemented by the CHP.
In addition to the formation of continent-based regional associations in Europe, Asia, North and South America, partnerships between countries that cross continental borders are being established.
Our country has important advantages of being located in a geography with multiple regions and many new power centers.
Ensuring the highest level of peace, security and prosperity for our citizens depends on seizing opportunities for cooperation with all nearby regions and partnerships.
CHP is determined to strengthen Turkey's regional cooperation areas.
Asia is experiencing rapid economic growth.
CHP will maximize our economic and cultural relations by finding common ground with these countries, whose weight is increasing in the world economy.
With its strong Socialist International ties and solidarity and egalitarian policies, the CHP will make Turkey a respected and popular actor in Latin America.
A Turkey that does not see the African continent as a playground for internal conflicts will develop lasting relations with all African countries on the basis of solidarity and development partnership.
With the CHP's values-based, multilateral and pluralist policies, Turkey will become a center of international mobility on the North-South and East-West axes.
CHP'S GOAL: PEACE, DEMOCRACY AND DEVELOPMENT
In foreign policy, the CHP will emphasize a constructive approach with well-defined priorities, focusing its energies on these priorities and respecting the courtesy required by diplomatic life.
The CHP's foreign policy will have no room for adventurism, hamas, or irresponsible behavior based on domestic political concerns.
The CHP's goal is to heal the wounds inflicted by the AKP in our foreign policy and in our region.
The CHP will revive the Republican foreign policy, the foundations of which it laid.
Foreign policy will be reoriented on an axis based on universal values, with the citizen as its foundation, with the security and peace of the citizen at its core.
CHP will mobilize all the resources of our country to achieve the goal of "peace at home, peace in the world".
The CHP's citizen-centered, value-based, pluralist, peaceful, open and consistent policies will make Turkey a regional center of peace, development and democracy.
Under CHP rule, Turkey will once again be a reliable and respected country that knows its responsibilities, cooperates to achieve common goals, and sets an example with its diplomatic courtesy.
One of the main principles of our foreign policy is to contribute to the exercise of democratic rights at the highest level in the countries where our compatriots and their relatives live, and to ensure that they live freely and in good conditions.
This approach will be applied without any discrimination between our citizens of Turkmen, Kurdish, Caucasian, Balkan or Central Asian origin.
Steps towards this goal would be in line with the CHP's fundamental foreign policy principle of "non-interference in the internal affairs of neighbors".
CHP believes that Turkey must turn its compass back to the path of modern civilization in order to establish peace and security in the region and become a model country again.
In CHP government, all necessary steps will be taken immediately to complete the unfinished membership process with the EU.
Turkey's progress in the EU accession process
will contribute to our country taking its rightful place in the ongoing Trans-Atlantic trade and investment negotiations.
CHP will use the prestigious position and soft power we will gain through TTIP to restore stability in our region within the framework of universal democratic principles.
This will make it possible to reopen channels of mutual interest with the peoples of the region.
EUROPEAN UNION
EU MEMBER TURKEY
When we come to power in 1963, we will finalize the EU process with full membership and make Turkey a respected member of the EU.
With EU membership, we will continue our determined march towards modern civilization and democracy since the foundation of our Republic.
In solidarity with the social democratic parties in the EU, we will contribute to creating a Europe free of civilizational clashes and prejudices.
NEGOTIATIONS WITH THE EU
Until full EU membership is realized, we will conduct effective negotiations for the welfare of our people in the areas of visa, agricultural subsidies and regional development.
We will explain to all relevant groups that Turkey will be more peaceful and stronger with the EU and the EU will be more peaceful and stronger with Turkey.
We will oppose tying our full membership of the EU to unfair unilateral concessions.
We will reiterate at every opportunity that the EU's consideration of the legitimate demands of the Turkish Cypriot people is the policy most in line with European ideals.
We will ensure that Turkey's interests are protected in the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership Agreement being negotiated between the EU and the US.
OUR PEOPLE ABROAD
EğITIM
We will appoint teachers for the areas in need and prioritize teachers of Turkish origin living in Europe.
We will make the necessary arrangements to ensure that young people who want to continue their education in Turkey do not lose any years.
cultural interaction
We will pursue a foreign policy that unites cultures, not divides them.
We will establish "International Youth Centers" to increase cultural interaction and provide counseling services to our youth living abroad.
We will receive the contribution and support of our people living abroad in Turkey's EU accession process.
diplomatic initiatives
We will take all necessary diplomatic initiatives to gain the right to dual citizenship.
Through diplomatic initiatives, we will increase the security of life and property of people of Turkish origin.
REPRESENTATION
We will create overseas constituencies in order to bring the problems of our citizens abroad to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey more effectively.
We will ensure that our citizens abroad are represented in the TBMM with 10 deputies, one deputy for every 300,000 voters.
MILITARY SERVICE
We will ensure that the "report of inability to perform military service" issued abroad is also accepted by Turkey.
We will allow our citizens living abroad to complete their military service by serving in promotional programs.
services abroad
We will ensure that young people who have been trained abroad are assigned to work in our missions abroad.
We will improve consular services and cut transaction fees by half.
SERVICES IN TURKEY
We will facilitate the transactions of blue card holders in Turkey.
We will allow retirees to use the vehicles they bring from abroad for a longer period of time in Turkey.
We will eliminate the problems at customs gates through institutional measures.
RELATIONS WITH INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS
In all international organizations of which Turkey is a member, we will effectively voice national and regional issues and resolutely defend our national priorities.
We will ensure that more of our citizens take effective roles in international organizations and serve our country and humanity more.
We will support NATO to effectively fulfill its tasks as a defense alliance.
We will demand that alliance members fulfill their responsibilities fully and in a timely manner, and we will seek to ensure that the alliance acts in concert with the UN Security Council.
international cooperation for peace
In all our foreign relations, we will adopt the UN Charter as our basic guide and "Peace at home, peace in the world" as our main principle.
We will contribute to international peacekeeping and security operations organized by the UN and the organizations of which we are a member and which derive their legitimacy from binding UN Security Council resolutions.
We will actively participate in the fight against the proliferation of nuclear and chemical weapons.
We will contribute on all international platforms to achieve a world free of weapons of mass destruction.
A FAIRER WORLD
We will take the necessary initiatives to ensure that the principle of equality is established in international organizations and that everyone's views are taken into account.
We will support international initiatives to build a world order that fights poverty, defends women's rights and upholds the rule of law.
As a social democratic party, we will work to eliminate economic gaps between countries and inequalities in global income distribution.
MIDDLE EAST
turkey as a model country in the middle east
For Turkey, we will create a model of a credible and respected country in the Middle East with a foreign policy free of adventurism, arrogance, opportunism and hamasacism.
We will work resolutely to restore Turkey's reputation as a consistent and constructive stabilizer in the Middle East.
With our emphasis on secularism, equality between men and women and human rights, we will make Turkey an inspiring country in its region.
We will restore our sincerity and credibility through our contributions to peace efforts and make Turkey a strong, stable and prosperous leader in the Middle East.
We will build comprehensive relations with our neighbors and the countries of the region based on non-imposing and mutually enhancing relations.
We will not interfere in the internal affairs of our neighbors and will respect their independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity.
peace and stability in the middle east
We will put an end to sectarian and dogmatic politics.
We will protect and respect people everywhere because they are human beings, regardless of their beliefs.
We will support initiatives to find a lasting solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict based on two states.
We will create the conditions for the normalization of Turkish-Israeli relations to enhance our ability to contribute positively to the Middle East peace process.
We will support all progress in the Middle East in the areas of democratization, press freedom, women's rights and civil society.
We will emphasize peaceful methods and diplomacy in the region, not foreign interventions and military solutions.
security in the middle east
We will resolutely take measures to combat any terrorist organization that spreads to the region.
In the fight against terrorism, we will abide by the relevant UN Security Council resolutions.
We will provide the necessary conditions for our citizens to travel and invest in the region in safety.
SYRIA
We will support all international initiatives to achieve lasting peace and the work of the UN Special Envoy for Syria.
We will continue to work sincerely to bring peace and confidence to Syria as a political party that can negotiate with the parties to the civil war, never forgetting that the Syrian people are our friends.
We will not take sides in the ongoing war in Syria and we will help create conditions in which the Syrian people can decide the future of Syria without outside interference.
We will revitalize economic relations between Turkey and Syria on a legal basis.
We will establish healthy economic relations with Syria and rebuild and develop our region and cities.
FIGHT AGAINST TERRORISM
We will fulfill our obligations under international agreements and prevent Turkey from being labeled as a country that supports terrorism.
We will prevent any aid to terrorists in Iraq and Syria, especially Daesh, and we will take a firm stand against terrorism.
We will eliminate the security threats posed to our country by terrorist organizations active in Iraq and Syria.
We will clear the terrorist elements nesting on our soil.
We will prevent Turkish airports and borders from becoming a springboard for terrorists traveling to Iraq and Syria.
We will effectively combat the internal elements that mediate the crossings through legal means.
syrian refugees
We will regularly host our brothers and sisters who have taken refuge in our country due to the war in Syria under conditions befitting humanity.
We will make sure that aid to refugees is transparent and auditable.
We will vigorously investigate any shady aid or abuse of humanitarian aid.
We will mobilize international organizations as soon as possible to tackle the challenges posed by the wave of migration from Syria.
We will actively support initiatives to restore the peace necessary for our refugee brothers and sisters to return to Syria.
IRAQ
We will support the Iraqi people to achieve a participatory democracy in which all layers of Iraqi society will be fairly represented.
We will develop our cooperation with the central Iraqi Government and the Kurdish Regional Government in every field that Turkey and Iraq's common interests require, within the limits set by the Iraqi Constitution.
We will establish equal and good relations with all the constituent elements of Iraq.
We will contribute to the fair resolution of Turkmen problems.
economic relations with iraq
In accordance with the agreement between the Iraqi Central Government and the Kurdish Regional Government within the framework of constitutional provisions, we will try to maximize our energy cooperation with Iraq, including the diversification of our resources.
We will take steps to improve favorable conditions for our citizens and the business community that have economic relations with Iraq.
We will ensure that our companies play an active role again in the construction of Iraq.
We will try to make Iraq our leading trade partner in the region.
SECURITY IN RELATIONS WITH IRAQ
We will work to ensure that Iraq prevents any movement or attempt to undermine the public order and territorial integrity of its neighbors.
We will take initiatives to prevent any threat to Turkey from Iraqi territory.
IRAN
We will maintain our traditional good relations with our neighbor Iran.
In addition to economic relations, we will strengthen our relations in many ways, especially in tourism.
We will take the necessary steps to shed light on all the shady dealings of individuals who have abused trade relations with Iran for their own personal gain and engaged in bribery with public officials, and to bring them to justice.
EGYPT
We will rebuild our deteriorating economic, cultural and political relations with Egypt on the basis of trust, friendship and solidarity.
We will work in cooperation with Egypt to resolve the problems in the region.
We will put an end to the understanding that uses Egypt's domestic politics to mislead Turkish public opinion.
We will not allow one-sided broadcasts, especially by TRT and AA, to disrupt the friendly relations between the Turkish and Egyptian peoples.
USA
We will maximize our relations with the United States based on mutual respect, trust and continuity.
We will do so with a new understanding on the basis of equality and the idea that both countries have a unique position in the Western world.
We will cooperate based on enduring shared values and interests, not on the evolving regional and international agenda.
We will create a new cultural and artistic dialog between Turkey and the US.
We will encourage our young citizens going to the US for higher education to build bridges of trust.
economic relations with the US
We will establish a new partnership with the United States that is not limited to strategic and military relations but is open to economic, scientific and cultural interaction.
We will encourage our business community to build broader and deeper economic ties with the United States.
We will provide logistics and communication support for the business community.
We will prepare the ground for Turkish universities and techno-cities to develop joint projects and collaborate with US universities in important areas.
GREECE
We will work for the development of relations between Turkey and Greece on the basis of good neighborliness and friendship.
We will turn the Aegean Sea into a sea that unites our peoples, not divides them.
To this end, we will first increase economic, social and cultural interaction between our Aegean provinces and the Greek islands.
We will try to resolve the Aegean issues through bilateral negotiations on an equitable basis.
We will aim to finalize the problems that cannot be resolved bilaterally before international legal authorities in case of mutual agreement.
In line with our understanding of libertarian democracy and the rule of law, we will ensure through legal regulations that minority members and institutions fully enjoy all civil, political, economic, social and cultural rights and minority rights.
Turks in Western Thrace
In order to solve the problems of the Turkish minority in Western Thrace, we will conduct result-oriented negotiations with Greece, drawing the necessary lessons from past attempts.
We will work resolutely for the protection of the rights and interests of the Turkish population living in Western Thrace arising from the Treaty of Lausanne and other international treaties and conventions.
CYPRUS
permanent solution in Cyprus
We will work for a just and lasting solution to the Cyprus problem.
We will solve the Cyprus problem by protecting the acquired rights of the TRNC and the Turkish people of Northern Cyprus and by ensuring the political equality of Turkish Cypriots and Greek Cypriots.
We will increase Turkey's power in the Eastern Mediterranean and ensure the fair distribution of energy resources in the Eastern Mediterranean.
We will continue to support the Turkish Cypriot people against economic sanctions and international embargoes.
Until the Turkish Cypriot people have equal representation in the international arena, we will provide all necessary support for the political representation of Turkish Cypriots.
In the event that a settlement in Cyprus is not reached within a reasonable period of time, we will implement an active diplomatic strategy for the international recognition of the TRNC.
relations with the TRNC
We will defend the sovereign rights and democratic will of the TRNC.
We will not allow interference in the internal affairs of the TRNC.
We will put an end to discourses and practices that hurt the dignity of the Turkish Cypriot people.
We will communicate with the constitutional institutions of the independent TRNC within a framework of mutual respect.
CAFCASIA
Within the framework of the understanding to be reached with Russia, we will endeavor to develop economic and cultural relations between the related communities in the North Caucasus and Caucasian immigrants in our country.
We will work to make Turkey an indispensable transit corridor for the transfer of the energy resources of the Caucasus and the Caspian basin, especially Russia, to the West.
We will further strengthen our brotherly ties with our neighbor Azerbaijan on the basis of mutual trust.
We will take initiatives for a negotiated settlement of the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict within the framework of Azerbaijan's territorial integrity.
We will aim to establish good neighborly relations with Armenia and will strive to solve the problems between Turkey and Armenia.
We will work constructively and effectively towards the establishment of peace and stability in the South Caucasus and the subsequent development of the region in an environment of sustainable peace and cooperation.
RUSSIA
economic relations
We will further develop economic and trade relations with the Russian Federation.
We will support the presence of Turkish entrepreneurs in the Eurasian Economic Union, especially in Russia, and provide constructive support to solve the problems created by national legislation and practices.
We will establish mechanisms to ensure contact and cooperation between entrepreneurs, local authorities and civil society organizations of the two countries to develop and diversify the tourism sector.
We will establish contacts on Turkey's energy security as transparent as possible, without personal relationships and without excluding the institutional knowledge of both states.
cooperation in the fields of education, science and arts
We will make institutional arrangements to ensure cooperation between leading universities in Turkey and Russia in the fields of education, technology and arts.
We will support the cooperation to be established between the two countries in the fields of education and science, both in terms of market orientation and social and cultural content.
We will work to combine Russia's capabilities in R&D and innovation with the entrepreneurial culture in Turkey.
steps towards peace and stability
We will support a peaceful resolution of tensions between Ukraine and Russia without further destabilization in the region.
We will insist on protecting the rights of Tatars in Crimea, whose annexation we do not recognize.
RUSSIANS IN TURKEY, TURKS IN RUSSIA
We will deepen social and cultural relations between Turkey and Russia, and enable citizens living and working in both countries to build strong bridges between the two countries.
We will work within the framework of reciprocity to support the integration of Turkish citizens of Russian origin and Turkish citizens in Russia and their contribution to the relations between the two countries.
We will take the initiative to change the legislation in Russia that prevents dual citizenship.
CENTRAL ASIAN REPUBLICS
We will advance the neglected relations with the Central Asian Republics with which we have historical, cultural and kinship relations.
We will provide bold incentive mechanisms to make these relations multifaceted and develop institutional mechanisms, especially in language training, technical cooperation and joint research projects.
We will try to develop solutions to reduce communication and transportation costs with the countries in the region, especially visa applications and work permits.
We will strive for greater capacity of the region's energy resources, such as natural gas, to be transported through Turkey to Europe and other markets, contributing to shared prosperity.
We will take sincere and sustainable steps to transform relations limited to states into relations between societies.
BALKANS
We will promote friendship and good neighborly relations with all countries in the Balkans, with an approach that simultaneously aims for democracy, cultural pluralism and economic prosperity.
We will stay away from policies that will feed historical prejudices and create false expectations in the Balkans, which will disrupt relations between the peoples of the region.
We will not give premiums to the patriotic discourses and approaches that serve religious and ethnic radicalism in the view of Balkan history.
We will not limit our relations to the narrow perspective of a single historical understanding, a single ideology or political understanding.
We will create opportunities for multilateral and bilateral cooperation to promote economic cooperation and political stability in the region.
TURKISH LIVING IN THE BALKANS
We will work to ensure that the related communities living in the Balkans can live as equal citizens in their countries of origin.
We will support Balkan Turks to contribute to the democracy and development of the countries where they live.
We will resolutely defend their rights and their will to live in security.
AFRICA
We will develop opportunities for student exchange, commercial investment, tourism and cultural exchange with all countries in Africa, especially North Africa.
We will contribute to democracy and development initiatives in Africa and to the fight against corruption and poverty.
We will not take sides in the many conflicts that have reached the point of civil war, and we will support all initiatives for a peaceful solution.
We will not engage with groups or leaders who do not respect human rights, commit genocide or support terrorist activities.
TUNISIA
We will develop our bilateral relations with Tunisia.
We will support the initiative of the friendly Tunisian people for parliamentary democracy, secularism and peaceful transformation.
LIBYA
In the CHP government, we will repair the deteriorated relations with Libya and restore our diplomatic and trade relations to their former level.
We will take the necessary steps to ensure that our businessmen, engineers and workers can work safely in Libya.
We will put an end to the support of groups waging armed struggle against the Libyan government and to attempts to intervene in Libya's internal affairs.
We will strengthen our historical and economic ties with the Libyan people.
SOUTH AMERICA
We will continue our policy of enriching and developing our relations with the countries of South and Central America.
In particular, we will strengthen our relations with the social democratic and socialist governments and parties of Latin America, and we will take care to develop both inter-country relations and inter-party solidarity.
We will improve the conditions for cooperation on the Latin American continent for different groups of students, business people and artists.
FAR EAST
We will prioritize and emphasize the development of our relations with countries in the region, particularly China, Japan, India, Indonesia and Australia.
We will encourage Turkish, Japanese and Korean companies to act together in third markets.
We will develop cooperation with South Korea in the field of education.
PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA
We will develop economic relations and trade with China and improve the foreign trade balance, which is to Turkey's detriment.
We will encourage our entrepreneurs to diversify and increase their investments in China.
We will maximize cooperation with China in science, academia and technology.
We will expand opportunities for younger generations to learn Chinese languages and culture.
DEVELOPING COUNTRIES
Recognizing the contribution of trade and cultural interaction among developing countries to world peace and sustainable development, we will pay special attention to relations with these geographies.
We will develop joint investments, R&D programs and student exchange programs with these countries.
TOWARDS AN INFORMATION SOCIETY
06731000
Today, industrial societies are rapidly developing and becoming information societies.
We live in an era in which information technologies are used intensively in almost every aspect of our public and private lives, especially in economic activities.
While this great transformation offers great opportunities to all societies, great dangers await those who lag behind.
CHP is the party that understands this change in Turkey and has the vision and projects that will not only keep pace with it, but also make Turkey one of the key actors of this change.
ECONOMY AND THE INFORMATION SOCIETY
The infrastructure of the information society is an economic order based on high value-added, innovation and competitive production.
The main driving force of the knowledge economy is innovation.
Innovation has become the primary source of production, growth and wealth creation.
Developing technology, increasing value added and raising international competitiveness depend first and foremost on improving a country's capacity to create innovation.
Turkey has failed to make tangible progress in this area.
The concentration in the production of low value-added products in Turkey continues to consolidate.
We remain net importers in technology-intensive areas.
Underlying the chronic current account deficits is the reality of low value added.
Realizing a fundamental structural transformation in Turkey's production pattern will only be possible by creating an innovative knowledge-based economy.
The CHP's economic program prioritizes investing in knowledge, knowledge infrastructure and people.
Innovation policies should target both new and traditional sectors.
In traditional industries, qualified design should be emphasized and high value-added production should be ensured.
If the necessary scientific investments are made in Turkey, it is possible to transform low value-added production sectors into high value-added sectors.
This is the only way out of the "middle income trap" that economists constantly draw attention to.
EğITIM
Transition to an information society requires an effective and radical educational reform.
Education reform will increase labor productivity, wages and the quality of growth.
Education reform will make it possible to maximize the use of existing technologies on the one hand and to create new ones on the other.
This will increase high value-added production in agriculture, industry and services sectors.
Our global competitiveness will increase and the welfare level of our citizens will rise.
The CHP's education reform will center on lifelong learning.
Pre-school education will be free and compulsory for all.
The CHP's education reform will be based on at least eight years of uninterrupted and formal basic education and a total of thirteen years of compulsory education.
During this period, all our children will acquire all the competencies required by the information society, including communication, foreign languages, mathematics, science and technology, digital skills, learning to learn, social and civic skills, entrepreneurial skills and cultural awareness.
The CHP believes that a high quality vocational and academic education following basic education will ensure a skilled workforce with the qualifications required by the age.
For the knowledge society, it is essential to train the workforce to be able to adapt to new conditions.
In the knowledge society, the nature of labor demand and the qualifications required of the workforce are changing rapidly.
Today, young people in education are expected to change their occupation on average seven to eight times during their adult lives.
New industries and emerging sectors do not require workers specialized in a narrow field.
In these sectors, critical thinking, problem solving, creativity, communication skills and especially effective digital workers are demanded.
The main characteristic sought in the workforce is transformable skills that can be spread over a wide area.
Even at an advanced age, there is a need for people who can fulfill the requirements of a new profession after a short period of training.
Universities are among the leading institutions in conducting research, producing new knowledge and developing new technologies.
Therefore, the importance of universities should be well understood and their development at the highest level should be a priority policy objective.
Universities should not be deprived of the most important source that nourishes them: the environment of free thought.
Otherwise, our country will be the loser and Turkey's goal of reaching the information society will never be realized.
The CHP government is determined to work to improve the quality of our universities and all research institutions and to ensure that they are among the most respected institutions in the world.
STRATEGY FOR TRANSITION TO INTEGRATED INFORMATION SOCIETY
The transition to an information society can only be accelerated by taking a holistic and multifaceted approach.
The human and social dimensions of the transition to a knowledge economy are as important as the technological and economic dimensions.
CULTURE AND KNOWLEDGE SOCIETY
The development of creativity and innovation in a society depends primarily on the development of cultural infrastructure.
The EU emphasizes that innovation is only possible through "culture-based creativity".
This is why EU countries are significantly increasing the resources allocated to the arts and artists.
Today, arts and cultural activities are among the fastest growing sectors of the knowledge economy.
Second, countries can attract the investors, tourists and skilled labor needed for growth only to the extent that they can develop cultural activities.
Third, innovation and creativity in the arts are becoming more and more intertwined and cannot be separated from each other.
Countries with vibrant urban cultures are the ones that can generate the most economic innovation.
Economic growth in the knowledge economy is primarily a question of creating a rich human resource base.
Countries can pave the way for innovation to the extent that they can provide a social and cultural environment that provides all-round support to talented and highly skilled individuals and nurtures them intellectually and spiritually.
The most successful countries in terms of innovation and economic growth are those that are open and able to provide an environment of freedom for individuals.
Particularly creative individuals, such as gifted artists and scientists, prefer to live in spaces and environments where they can exist with their own views and identities and where they are welcomed with tolerance.
This kind of environment increases their creative motivation, energy and productivity.
In short, art today has become the primary driver of scientific creativity and technological development.
The better we understand the importance of freedom, culture and the arts, the more we will be able to accelerate innovation, creativity and growth in our country.
The shortest path to an information society is through the support of culture and arts.
SOCIAL JUSTICE
The transition to an information society requires increasing human development and the social welfare of all citizens, while increasing economic wealth.
Societies with high levels of inequality are not successful in developing the infrastructure of the knowledge economy.
Turkey must stop being a society perpetually plagued by poverty, conflict and social disintegration.
The way to do this is to address all the economic, human and cultural dimensions of change together and to show determination to overcome these problems.
The information society means equality and social justice.
In the information society, more investment is made in human beings and labor is valued more.
Increased access to information facilitates and accelerates access to public services such as education and health, culture and arts, and financial services.
Individuals have a higher quality of life.
CHP will ensure equality of opportunity in access to the means of transition to an information society, especially education, as soon as possible.
green economy
The new understanding of economic development recognizes that growth must be achieved in a way that takes into account our responsibilities towards the environment.
Growing up by protecting the environment we live in means that we fulfill our responsibility towards future generations.
A perspective that considers human beings together with the nature and environment in which they live should be adopted especially by the younger generations.
Accelerating the transition to the information society is closely related to the development and use of green technologies.
Climate change and environmental issues have gained a serious economic context.
In order to cope with climate change, it is inevitable to favor green technologies and green economy.
The green economy is becoming the investment area that maximizes efficiency and long-term profitability.
Turkey must use green technologies more widely to catch up with the times, achieve sustainable growth and demonstrate that it is taking responsibility for solving this global challenge.
Beyond this, our country should develop its own green economy model and invest heavily in this field to produce green technologies.
In the CHP government, the necessary investments in sustainable energy will be realized rapidly.
CHP will make Turkey one of the leading countries in the world, especially in solar energy research.
Today, the green economy is one of the most important drivers of innovation, high added value and economic growth.
The development of green technologies will give a new impetus to the process of transition to an information society.
In CHP government, all necessary steps will be taken to adopt, develop and use green technologies more widely in our country.
WOMEN'S PARTICIPATION IN THE WORKING LIFE AND THE INFORMATION SOCIETY
For a country to have a respected place in the world, equality between women and men must become a fundamental value of society.
A country's ability to achieve a developed economy depends on the widespread participation of women in the labor market.
However, one of the most prominent features of the labor market in Turkey is the very low labor force participation rate of women.
In order to increase women's participation in the labor force and improve the welfare of working women in Turkey, legal arrangements should be made,
unregistered work should be prevented
and social policies should be harmonized with EU criteria.
As women's level of education increases, their participation in business and working life also increases.
Women with higher levels of education are able to move up the career ladder more quickly and empower themselves in economic and social life.
It is among the primary responsibilities of the CHP to make efforts to protect these gains of women based on the reforms of the Republic.
Women are much more successful in the information society and economy and can reach very high positions.
In the knowledge society, women are at the center of innovation processes.
Countries at the forefront of innovation development are those where the proportion of women working in science and research has reached the level of men.
CHP will work to ensure that women participate in the labor force at much higher rates and participate more effectively in the rising knowledge economy.
CHP will work for women to have the same rights and position as men in all areas of life in order to reach the goal of a knowledge economy that produces and uses advanced technology.
compromise and consensus for the information society
To achieve the information society, the state needs to play a regulatory and conciliatory role.
Businesses should be conscious and sensitive about their social responsibilities.
The world of labour and workers' organizations must always keep the pathways of dialogue and negotiation open.
The state, labor and business should come together regularly on all important issues, not just those concerning labor, to try to reach a social consensus.
Such a search for consensus will create a strong problem-solving culture and lay the foundation for the transition to an information society within a democratic climate.
Such an environment of political stability and consensus needs to be created for long-term investments to take place.
As a social democratic party, the CHP will bring about the great reconciliation needed in our country.
CONCLUSION
Countries that fail to maximize freedoms and democracy are unable to develop the dynamic sectors of the knowledge economy.
The success of authoritarian regimes that achieve high economic growth rates for a short period of time is not permanent and sustainable.
Therefore, the first priority is to overcome the problems we face in our country in terms of fundamental rights and freedoms, tolerance and democracy in general.
Orderly industrial relations,
functioning markets, an
effective rule of law and a
highly qualified education system are among the necessary conditions for the transition to a knowledge economy.
CHP is committed to fair competition in our country,
a sound legal order
and to put in place a democratic regime that will enable all economic actors to look to the future with confidence.
WE KEEP OUR WORD, BECAUSE...
We are the party of those who carry the values of the Republic in their hearts and follow the path of modernization opened by Mustafa Kemal Atatürk.
We are the party of those who draw strength from the past, but always face the future.
We are for development, for a developed Turkey,
We are the party of those who fight for the "free man".
We are the party of those who say "neither oppressor nor oppressed; a humane and just order".
We are the party of those who answer those who ask "is there no hope?" with "hope is in people".
We are the party of those working to build a country of hope instead of fear.
We are the Republican People's Party.
