WE ARE THE PARTY OF LIBERATION AND ESTABLISHMENT
The Republican People's Party is the party of liberation and establishment, which marked the liberation of Turkey and the establishment of the Republic.
The Republican People's Party is the party that brought the services of the Turkish National Assembly and the institutions of our Republic into the history of our nation.
The Republican People's Party was strengthened in parliament,
is the party that places the highest value on the social state and human development.
Our republic through democracy,
is the party that crowned democracy with the social state.
The Republican People's Party is the party that enabled Turkey's transition to multi-party life,
initiated the European Union membership process with the Ankara Agreement,
is the party that has made our country prestigious and reliable in the eyes of democratic countries.
WE ARE THE PARTY OF MODERNIZATION AND DEVELOPMENT
The Republican People's Party is committed to protecting our nation from wars,
It is the party that has initiated great breakthroughs and great transformations in order to liberate us from the grip of poverty and backwardness.
It is the party that established weaving, cement, iron-steel, mining and food factories, especially sugar factories, in towns and villages of Anatolia that lacked schools, roads and infrastructure, and provided mass employment by initiating domestic and national production with public resources.
It is the party that invited foreign experts and sent thousands of students abroad to put an end to Anatolia's technological and scientific backwardness.
The Republican People's Party is committed to high value-added economic growth in the 21st century,
equitable social distribution,
is a party that prioritizes modern and quality education for the welfare of our citizens.
The Republican People's Party supports pluralist democracy
and human development as two inseparable goals.
WE ARE THE PARTY OF TRADITION AND THE FUTURE
Although the Republican People's Party is 95 years old, it is a party that strives to bring our people to the level of civilization they deserve with the spirit and excitement of the first day.
The freedom of our citizens with all its cadres in the footsteps of the Anatolian Enlightenment initiated by the great leader Mustafa Kemal Atatürk,
is a party that works tirelessly for prosperity, peace and happiness.
The Republican People's Party is a party that draws its strength from Kuvayi Milliye and our War of Independence, its legitimacy from Amasya, Erzurum and Sivas, its self-confidence from the economic and institutional reforms of the Republic, its hope from our citizens who participated in Gezi and the millions of people who flooded the March for Justice.
WE ARE THE LEADING PARTY OF ATATURKISM AND SOCIAL DEMOCRACY, WE ARE THE LEADING PARTY OF THE 21ST CENTURY
The Republican People's Party is a party that brings together and blends Kemalism and the universal principles of social democracy in 21st century conditions.
Republican People's Party, Human Rights
and republicanism based on pluralist democracy;
Atatürk's Nationalism that embraces our cultural richness with an understanding of equal citizenship;
Statism based on social justice and human development;
Secularism that respects different lifestyles and beliefs;
Humanist and solidarist Populism;
It is the party of enlightenment and democratic revolutionism.
WE ARE THE PARTY OF FREE CITIZENS AND COEXISTENCE
Turkey is at a breaking point.
Turkey is on the verge of a historic decision today.
Will we live together as free citizens in brotherly coexistence?
Or will we become crowds that have lost their freedom and are estranged from each other?
Today, our country is under the threat of a personalized, arbitrary one-man regime.
Our democracy is in a deep crisis.
The one-man regime is trying to take away the sovereignty rights of our Veteran Parliament, disregarding the principle of separation of powers and making our democracy unworkable.
The state of emergency regime destroys the rule of law and the independence of the judiciary; it imposes the law of superiors instead of the rule of law.
Turkey today is ruled by a party state.
Turkey is therefore experiencing a regime crisis, a crisis of legitimacy.
Our citizens are victimized under a system of oppression and persecution.
Our nation's desire to live together in peace is being surrendered to a climate of fear and pessimism.
Confrontational and divisive language destroys the peace and confidence of our people.
Fair and free elections, which are the minimum condition for a democratic regime, are being overshadowed.
Boards and officials responsible for the security of elections become the cause of electoral fraud.
Realizing that it will lose the elections, the government seeks to resort to election fraud.
The corrupt party state casts a shadow over the deep democratic consciousness of our people and the international reputation of our country.
The free press, universities and civil society are silenced.
Dissidents are imprisoned and other segments of society are intimidated.
Instead of the free citizens of the Republic, the obedient masses of the party state are desired.
The one-man regime is destroying our country's centuries-old state tradition, the memory of institutions and trained human resources.
Meritlessness, irregularities and nepotism are rampant at all levels.
Elected officials are removed from office under the State of Emergency regulations; almost all institutions are run by trustees and unqualified advisors.
Those who deserve to be excluded and those who do not are welcomed.
Public institutions and cadres are rotting.
Those in power unfairly distribute our natural resources and public resources to their cronies and bankrupt the productive sectors of our country with reckless corruption.
WE ARE THE PARTY OF HUMAN DEVELOPMENT AND EQUITABLE DISTRIBUTION
Today, it is clear that Turkey's working and
The productive sectors are not getting the share of production they deserve.
Our country is not realizing its qualified growth potential.
Turkey lags behind the civilized world in production and distribution.
Millions of our workers are forced to work for low minimum wages.
Our tradesmen cannot pay their tax and loan debts.
It cannot replace what it sells.
Our farmers cannot afford high input costs.
It is being crushed by imports.
They leave their fields because of low crop prices.
Our forest villagers work without social security and pension rights.
Our pensioners cannot live on their pensions.
It is getting poorer every day.
Our teachers are condemned to low salaries and unacceptable working conditions.
Hundreds of thousands of young teachers are not appointed.
Paid teachers are working at the poverty line.
Civil servants are not promoted on merit.
Appointments and transfers are carried out unfairly.
SMEs are crushed under debt and tax burden.
Due to high costs, they are incurring losses and withdrawing from production.
Industrialists are losing markets due to unstable foreign policy.
It is losing its global competitive advantage.
The young generations of our country are suffering from an unqualified education system.
He suffers from paid education and a bad exam system.
It is rapidly declining in the world rankings.
Hundreds of thousands of young people who have lost hope of finding a job are forced to work while studying.
Our young people are condemned to despair.
The students are the victims of a corrupt education system.
and become victims of unemployment.
The one-man order is driving academics, trained and successful professionals out of our country due to repression and lack of merit.
It is holding our country back in science and technology.
Turkey is regressing to the position of a country that gives qualified migration and accepts unqualified asylum seekers.
The one-man regime is becoming the root cause of exploitation, lawlessness and lack of merit.
The one-party state, incompatible with the character of our people, disregards the common sense and common conscience of our nation.
He is trying to mortgage the will and future of our nation.
Turkey is on the verge of an important decision today.
Today, Turkey is on the brink of re-liberation and re-establishment.
Undoubtedly, even under these dire circumstances, our beloved nation has the prudence, courage and sense of justice to not surrender its destiny to a single person, a single family, a single caste, a single party state.
Because Turkey will be able to realize a new democratic constitution together with our people,
He will be able to rebuild broken public institutions and corrupt cadres;
It will be able to replace the backward and dependent economic system with a national system of production and distribution;
He will be able to stand courageously on the side of the poor, the oppressed and the victims seeking justice;
It has a party that can fight for Rights, Law and Justice.
This party is the party of the people.
This party is the party of the Republic.
This party is the Republican People's Party.
Long live the Republic,
Long live the Veteran Assembly, Long
live Freedom, Long live
Justice.
Long Live Our People Resisting Against All Forms of Injustice, Oppression and Exploitation.
Long live the beloved Turkish nation.
DEMOCRACY RIGHT, LAW, JUSTICE
Turkey is moving away from the democratic and civilized world.
Our citizens are governed by an oppressive and lawless approach.
With the July 20 coup d'état, the political power, using the chaotic environment of the July 15 coup, suspended fundamental rights and freedoms and established a one-man regime.
The office of the presidency has lost its impartial character and lost its ability to represent all citizens.
A tutelage has been built over the TBMM, which represents the national will.
The principle of parliamentary supremacy has been abandoned.
The one-man regime has abolished the separation of powers.
The concentration of power in one hand has led to the corruption of power.
The judiciary has lost its impartiality and independence.
It has reached a point where even the decisions of the Constitutional Court are not implemented.
The mechanisms of justice and law, which are the guarantors of citizens' rights, have been disabled.
Freedom of thought and expression, the right to peaceful demonstration and freedom of association are being abolished.
Authoritarianizing and monopolizing power makes political pluralism impossible.
All forms of opposition are sought to be neutralized through various pressures and tricks.
The press, intellectuals, universities and artists are silenced.
The state of emergency has deprived citizens of their most basic rights in their own countries.
The one-man regime, with its policies of intimidation and intimidation, has built an arbitrary and despotic rule, the likes of which can only be seen in underdeveloped countries.
Free elections are being held with difficulty.
Electoral corruption, injustice and inequality have cast a shadow over our democracy.
The impartiality of the SBE has disappeared and it has become difficult for citizens to protect their votes.
The one-man regime's forced resignation of elected officials and the appointment of trustees to replace them with emergency decrees have liquidated democratic representatives and processes.
Public institutions, which should be impartial in serving citizens, have become arbitrary and under the influence of the party state.
Institutions that should represent state wisdom and the public interest have started to represent private interests.
Merit and competence have disappeared in state administration.
Loyalty has replaced merit; partisanship has replaced competence.
The mind of the state has been replaced by the mind of the palace.
The interests of a person and a group of people have taken precedence over the public interest.
The palace regime claimed that it would change the 1982 coup Constitution, but it established a political regime even more repressive and backward than September 12.
The one-man regime is now trying to rule Turkey without a constitution, without parliament, without justice, without bureaucracy and without citizens.
The Republican People's Party will put an end to this oppressive and distorted understanding of governance and implement a new democratic constitution that embraces all of Turkey and does not exclude a single citizen, together with all parties.
ECONOMY PRODUCTIVE, GROWING, EQUITABLY DISTRIBUTED TURKEY
Under the one-man regime, the average growth rate of the Turkish economy has lagged behind other developing countries.
Turkey's external debt stock has exceeded 450 billion dollars.
While exchange rates are constantly increasing due to the accumulated foreign currency debts of private firms and the high current account deficit, our country is being drawn into a dark cycle of high interest rates and high exchange rates.
The AKP's rent economy has created a handful of rich while condemning millions to poverty.
The Palace regime, which disrupted the balance of the economy, not only dragged Turkey into a crisis with its unplanned and daily interventions, but also
reinforced the injustice in income distribution by relying on indirect taxes.
AKP's policies are dragging Turkey into non-production.
During the AKP period, Turkey's inflation rate exceeded five times the world average, and the Turkish Lira became one of the most depreciated currencies in the last five years.
Due to increased external dependence, every import at rising foreign exchange prices is reflected in goods and services.
While a handful of cronies are getting richer, households' debts have reached half of their disposable income.
In Turkey today, 16 million people are poor and
6 million are unemployed.
Millions of laborers live on minimum wages below the hunger line.
The AKP, which does not give the rights of the working and the productive, is unable to create a welfare environment that can meet the needs of the working people, pensioners and poor people who make up the main body of the Turkish economy.
Under the state of emergency, fundamental rights and freedoms were suspended and workers were not allowed to exercise their right to strike.
Social justice has regressed,
collective bargaining and strike rights have become unusable, and
economic predictability has disappeared.
The Turkish economy diverged negatively and fell behind world averages in key indicators.
Building exclusionary and discriminatory institutional structures, incentivizing rent by not taxing it,
This oppressive regime, which makes partisan use of public resources, has become a threat to the future of the nation.
Our country needs an economy that increases the use of technology, is competitive and produces high added value.
While the 21st century offers opportunities to overcome Turkey's fundamental economic problems, AKP governments are squandering these opportunities.
AKP's wasteful economy has spread corruption and
deepened poverty.
A favorable climate for investments that would provide a windfall for growth has not been created.
Under one-man rule, Turkey has been condemned to disinvestment, non-production and dirty industries as well as bad governance.
The 1% who share in the rents created by the palace turn their backs on 99% of the society.
As CHP, we are in favor of the 99% of society who are ignored, the pensioners,
from tradesmen
from the farmer
from the producer
and a future that favors all the poor.
We will replace the rent economy with a program of growth and income justice that will give a breathing space to all segments of society.
On the one hand, we will maintain and stabilize macroeconomic balances, and on the
other, we will realize the developmental breakthrough Turkey needs.
I want wages to rise and
while ensuring that income is shared equitably,
We will reach our higher value-added targets with a technological breakthrough in production.
We will ensure fairness in distribution,
observe fiscal balance,
create a new economic structure that focuses on technology-intensive production and utilizes the opportunities of the age.
We will expand the volume of trade within the country, creating interconnected economic zones.
We will increase the share of products with high and medium-high technology intensity in exports.
Bringing the current account deficit to controllable levels; inflation, high interest rates
and solve the unemployment problem,
will overcome poverty,
We will bring per capita income closer to the level of rich societies.
EDUCATION JOB-GUARANTEED, FREE, QUALITY EDUCATION
The AKP, which has constantly changed its education policies throughout its rule, has turned our children, our most valuable asset, into a test board.
It has eviscerated the educational institutions established by the Republic.
Children from low-income families were denied quality education.
The decline in the quality of education has frustrated the dreams of students and parents for a better future.
For families and young people, this causes great despair.
Good and quality education has become the privilege of a narrow minority with high incomes.
While the proportion of free and qualified schools is decreasing, the number of schools that parents do not need is rapidly increasing.
Due to the insufficient number and low quality of state dormitories, families' education expenditures increase.
Families in economic difficulties are forced to send their children to sectarian dormitories.
As a result of AKP policies, the achievement level of our students has declined and their performance in international tests has fallen.
The government's dogmatic and inconsistent understanding of education has led to inefficient use of human resources and wasted technological investments.
The AKP manages education resources incompetently and wastefully.
The education system, designed in the hands of unqualified experts, does not allow for the formation of a qualified workforce and leads to the emergence of a large army of unemployed.
In today's world, science and technology are developing at a great pace, and the welfare of countries and the living standards of individuals are being reshaped accordingly.
Integration into the world is only possible through the training and employment of a qualified and skilled workforce.
With the AKP's education system, it is a dream for Turkey to become one of the developed economies of the world.
This education model will not only take Turkey out of the middle-income trap it has fallen into, but will also cause it to regress.
Turkey needs to raise competent, highly skilled and inquisitive young people in order to keep up with technological change in the world and become a pioneer in some areas.
However, the AKP needs an obedient and unconditionally subservient youth to maintain its power.
The AKP's education system does not respond to global competition, the knowledge economy and the requirements of Industry 4.0.
For a good education system, it is necessary to train teachers with the qualifications required by the age and to employ them in good conditions.
Today, tens of thousands of unappointed teachers in Turkey are waiting to be appointed, and teachers are unable to work in their areas of specialization.
Despairing of the future, teachers are forced to take other low-income jobs.
The declining reputation of the teaching profession on the one hand, and relatively low salaries on the other, have led to serious problems in the profession.
Add to this the partisan appointments, especially at administrative levels, and it is clear that education policies are not shaped according to merit.
A similar situation exists in the government's university policies.
The one-man administration aims to staff up Turkey's elite universities.
It tries to exert pressure on university administrations through YÖK and on academics through university administrations.
Partisan rector appointments undermine university autonomy.
The allocation of staff and resources is based on political obedience.
The monist mentality intimidates academics who do not obey or are critical with investigations.
It does not hesitate to dismiss them from their jobs with decree decrees.
In addition to political and administrative pressures, the quality of education at universities is declining due to favoritist employment policies.
One by one, universities, which should be engaged in scientific production, are being turned into the government's backyard, so qualified academics are seeking jobs abroad.
Lack of democracy leads to poor quality education and brain drain.
Under these conditions, our universities are unable to produce graduates in line with the needs of our country and most of our graduates remain unemployed.
Successful young people go abroad.
CHP's goal is to ensure a modern, qualified and free education from pre-school to university, which is a constitutional right.
Only with such an education model is it possible to increase high value-added production and train a skilled workforce.
Scientific and inquisitive education is the key to our country's democracy.
and development.
SOCIAL PEACE: BROTHERHOOD AND COEXISTENCE
AKP is striking a blow to Turkey's culture of coexistence in order to maintain its power.
It uses religious, ethnic and political identities against each other, secret negotiations under the name of opening up, and unconvincing promises under the guise of a solution.
Each initiative ends in a fiasco, each initiative ends with the marginalization of another segment of society.
The one-man regime tries to overcome every problem it faces by creating bigger problems and crises.
It almost depends its existence on the constant escalation of social polarization.
The AKP's promises to solve the Kurdish Question had a similar fate.
The AKP has refrained from establishing a legal structure for the solution of the Kurdish Question and has instead resorted to informal mechanisms and under-the-stairs processes.
The manipulative and insincere initiatives of the AKP governments have not gone beyond the promises they made and failed to keep during election periods.
The polarization of society in Turkey along ethnic, religious, sectarian and lifestyle lines has reached an unsustainable point.
The one-man regime and the personalized party state's understanding that does not embrace all our citizens and does not bring them together on a common ground, will make Turkey a developed country.
and lags behind democratic countries.
The AKP's attempt to settle scores with the history of the Republic is damaging the country's trained human resources and motivation for progress.
The climate of trust and peace necessary for social peace is being destroyed.
Under these conditions, the CHP will not exclude or marginalize any of our citizens because of their faith, origin or identity.
It will embrace each and every individual with a democratic understanding of citizenship.
This is the requirement of our libertarian politics of citizenship and our understanding of the Republic.
FOREIGN POLICY: STABILITY AND REPUTATION
The AKP government has created a one-man diplomacy in foreign policy that disregards Turkey's institutions and customs.
Turkish foreign policy has become inconsistent and volatile and has lost its credibility.
This is why Turkey has become more and more isolated in the international arena.
Turkey's adventurous foreign policy, incompatible with its economic and political power, has diminished Turkey's influence in the region and
damaged our economic interests, particularly border trade.
One-man diplomacy has led to the loss of our country's reputation in all international institutions of which it is a member.
Turkey has problems with almost all of its neighbors.
Our country has rapidly drifted away from being a solution-producing country in its region and has become a crisis-producing country.
The palace diplomacy, which approached the Arab Spring in an opportunistic and expansionist manner, caused Turkey to face a large Syrian refugee migration due to its adventurous policies.
The Syrian refugee crisis has become a serious problem not only because of the humanitarian tragedies it creates, but also because of the economic costs it imposes on our country.
The AKP's sectarian, confrontational, biased and adventurous foreign policy has aligned the government with many radical groups in the Middle East and damaged our international reputation.
Turkey has become the representative of a certain sectarian and religious politics.
As a result, there is almost no country in the Middle East with which Turkey has good relations, except Qatar.
One-man diplomacy has led to a one-dimensional foreign policy.
Turkey has lost the multilateral and multidimensional relations in the Middle East that it had built as a state policy in the past.
In spite of all this, the one-man regime is trying to cover up diplomatic defeats and failures with a ham-fisted rhetoric of global prestige and leadership.
The palace regime, which has lost its compass in the Middle East, has also moved away from its membership target in relations with the European Union.
The AKP's belligerent and incoherent diplomacy has led to crises with European countries like never before.
These crises, which directly affect our citizens in Europe, have jeopardized some of their gains.
Moreover, the confrontational policies of one-man politics have led to polarization among our compatriots abroad.
The tensions fueled by the AKP in Turkey have spread to the countries where our expatriates live.
Despite the prestige and leadership propaganda pumped into the domestic public opinion, the palace regime is continuously discrediting Turkey in the eyes of the EU.
As the principles of democracy and the rule of law have suffered, political groups and countries that once lobbied for Turkey to join the EU have abandoned their efforts.
Therefore, our citizens have not been able to achieve their just demands, especially visa exemption.
In fifteen years, Turkey has become the most problematic country in the Council of Europe and the European Human Rights system.
One-man diplomacy from the EU
NATO
It has started to impose heavy costs on our people in almost all relations from the Middle East to the Balkans.
Turkey's regaining its prestige in the world and becoming a reliable, strong and effective country can only be possible through an impartial, fair and rational foreign policy.
For this, belligerent, hamasic, personalized, dogmatic and adventurous one-man policies must end.
A foreign policy that avoids crises and is open to cooperation is essential for the rapid growth of the Turkish economy and the development of our competitive sectors.
Stability and prestige in the foreign world is only possible through the revitalization of the principle of "Peace at Home, Peace in the World".
In the 21st century, Turkey's diplomatic and economic interests can only be protected in this way.
DEMOCRACY RIGHT, LAW, JUSTICE
The biggest danger facing our democracy in Turkey is that the palace regime, which seeks to concentrate power in a single hand, has disregarded the law and abolished political pluralism and free election mechanisms in order to stay in power.
This understanding, which does not see democracy as the ultimate goal of peaceful coexistence and does not adopt it as a method of social relations, does not recognize freedoms.
and perceives the law as a threat to its existence.
The one-man regime, which disregards the common sense and common conscience of our people, will destroy Turkey's democratic accumulation.
and wastes economic resources.
Not balanced by separation of powers, not balanced by independent boards
and a regime that is not monitored by a free media can only be an authoritarian regime.
Turkey is being forced to obey a one-man regime that it does not deserve and does not deserve.
In this regime, our citizens are losing a little more freedom and becoming more intimidated with each passing day.
The Republican People's Party will not submit to any authoritarian approach that seeks to intimidate and depersonalize its citizens.
This authoritarian approach seeks to neutralize the institutions of democracy and the rule of law, first and foremost the Turkish Grand National Assembly.
Constitutional Court, higher judicial bodies,
civil society
unions
and the independent press is being undermined and suppressed from within.
Constitutional institutions are being pacified and
democratic mass organizations are being dragged into a dysfunctional position.
The one-man regime is trying to leave Turkish democracy without institutions and rules.
The CHP will not allow this deinstitutionalization and unprincipledization.
The one-man regime seeks to create an identity between state power and political parties in Turkey and to establish a regime that denies the right to exist to rival political parties.
The fact that a party that comes to power through democratic elections uses all public resources and distorts the conditions of political competition in order to stay in power can only be an indicator of a corrupt and repressive government.
The one-man regime is trying to impose a party-state approach on our citizens.
CHP will use all forms of democratic struggle against this imposition.
The one-man regime is distancing the country's ruling cadres from merit and competence due to the nepotistic relationships it has established.
Fairness is disappearing in public administration and business life, and one-man law is taking over all relations.
Therefore, professional ethics gives way to a culture of subservient obedience.
Public officials make decisions in the interests of the ruling power, not in the general interest of the people.
CHP will defend merit and equity against the culture of nepotism that undermines the interests and dignity of citizens.
There will be no partisanship or favoritism in state affairs.
In order to manipulate citizens, the one-man regime monopolizes news sources and tries to cover up the truth.
Freedom of the press and the right to access information are under threat.
Public opinion is manipulated and journalists are imprisoned.
Multivocality is prevented and censorship and manipulation replace democratic communication.
Like all authoritarian regimes, the AKP regime is most afraid of the truth.
CHP will protect citizens' right to seek and disseminate the truth.
Citizens' freedom is only possible if they have access to information.
In the face of authoritarian politics, the CHP will courageously defend citizens' search for truth and justice.
REPUBLIC OF FREE CITIZENS
We will ensure the restoration of all constitutional and universal rights suspended or violated by the one-man regime.
We will end all these practices, especially the State of Emergency, and eliminate the destruction they have caused.
We will end all violence, persecution and degrading practices that amount to torture against citizens.
Including July 20, we will erase the traces of all coups and abolish the coup laws in force.
We will not only ensure that the right to peaceful assembly and demonstration is not restricted under any circumstances and that democratic reactions are freely expressed, we will also provide legal guarantees for the defense of even the most contradictory ideas as long as they do not include hate speech and calls for violence.
We will put an end to all established practices of intimidation, repression, criminalization and profiling of our citizens.
We will pardon and compensate all the grievances created during the period when the crime of insulting the president, which was designed for an impartial and irresponsible President, was used as an armor for a party and political party leader and as a means of intimidating and punishing his opponents.
We will end the use of the crime of insulting public officials in a way that restricts freedom of expression and criticism.
The right to organize, which is the guarantee of libertarian democracy, and
We will remove all obstacles to organized society.
We will end all practices that are the product of the oppressive and monist understanding of power that eliminates pluralism.
A DEMOCRATIC CONSTITUTION FIT FOR OUR PEOPLE
We will pioneer the drafting of a new constitution that uncompromisingly implements the principle of separation of powers, respects universal human rights, and is built on the principles of social justice and equal citizenship.
We will ensure that the new Constitution is drafted with the broad participation of all political parties, civil society organizations, democratic mass organizations, professional organizations, trade unions and citizen initiatives.
Against the one-man regime, we will realize a new social contract that reflects our citizens' longing for justice and law, and that will foster political pluralism and a culture of coexistence.
In our new Constitution, we will put an end to the practices of Decree Laws and Presidential Decrees, which delegate legislative power and usurp the will of the Parliament.
We will make the Presidency neutral and non-partisan, representing the entire nation.
We will limit the President's powers to a symbolic level.
We will limit the President's powers to appoint senior bureaucrats and members of the higher judiciary, which contradict the principle of separation of powers.
EMPOWERED PARLIAMENT, EMPOWERED CITIZENS
We will strengthen our Veteran Parliament as an independent legislative and effective oversight body where all citizens are represented and where the common mind and common conscience are reflected.
We will adopt the method of discussing the law proposals with the participation of all stakeholders in the public and relevant commissions, after they have been sufficiently discussed before the General Assembly of the Turkish Grand National Assembly.
We will end the practice of omnibus laws that dysfunctionalize the TBMM Commissions and eliminate the possibility of debate in the General Assembly and the possibility of quality legislation.
We will not allow the legislature to be dysfunctionalized through the abuse of the basic law procedure.
We will amend the Parliamentary Rules of Procedure to ensure the democratic functioning of the Parliament and political pluralism.
We will make amendments to the Rules of Procedure with the proposal and participation of all parties and by seeking a qualified majority.
We will make trial without detention a principle in the trial of MPs.
We will quickly make the necessary legal arrangements for the release of all imprisoned MPs whose sentences are not finalized.
We will restore the parliament's supervisory powers that were taken away from it and strengthen its existing powers.
We will abolish the powers of the President, which violate the principle of inalienability of the right to budget, and return these powers to the Parliament.
We will ensure that the Final Accounts Commission is transformed into a permanent specialized commission in the Turkish Grand National Assembly, and that it operates continuously, effectively, transparently and fully independent of the executive.
We will make the Court of Accounts, which audits public expenditures on behalf of the Grand National Assembly, more effective and autonomous.
We will ensure timely, complete and regular submission of the Court of Accounts reports to Parliament.
LIFTING THE STATE OF EMERGENCY AND REDRESSING GRIEVANCES
We will abolish the state of emergency and end the emergency decree system.
We will open emergency decrees to constitutional review.
We will redress the grievances of citizens victimized by the State of Emergency within the framework of universal principles of law and democratic values.
We will end long and arbitrary detentions, long detention and violations of the right to defense.
We will guarantee the presumption of innocence.
We will immediately put an end to the illegal and arbitrary restrictions on leaving the country following the declaration of the state of emergency.
We will ensure freedom of movement, a constitutional right.
We will abolish the State of Emergency Inquiry Commission and open the State of Emergency procedures to direct judicial review.
In this process, we will ensure that our people who have lost their jobs, who have been dismissed and whose rights have been violated without a judicial decision will regain their rights.
We will ensure that public tenders and administrative procedures carried out during the State of Emergency are reviewed by an independent commission.
We will make legal arrangements to enable the judiciary to examine and decide on the cases of non-governmental organizations and media outlets that have been shut down without a judicial decision.
We will remove the obstacles preventing individuals and institutions who have been unlawfully victimized due to the State of Emergency from filing administrative and judicial applications.
TRANSPARENT POLITICS, FAIR COMPETITION
We will abolish the 10% electoral threshold, which reflects the spirit of September 12, and all obstacles to fair representation.
We will introduce the Turkish Parliament so that parties with more than 1% of the votes will be represented in parliament.
Electoral laws and the Law on Political Parties, political pluralism
and increase participation and
We will reorganize the party in a way that strengthens internal democracy.
We will remove the SBE from the control of political will and open the decisions of the SBE to the review of the Constitutional Court.
We will ensure that all political parties that are declared qualified to stand for elections benefit fairly from Treasury aid.
We will make arrangements to prevent the partisan use of public resources and opportunities that will lead to unfair competition in elections.
We will ensure that the public and private resources used by political parties are audited in line with the principle of transparency and accountability.
We will ensure that the annual accounts of political parties are audited within 6 months of their submission to the Constitutional Court and that the results of the audit are shared with the public.
We will remove obstacles to bringing public officials involved in electoral fraud to justice.
We will provide a democratic and pluralistic legal framework for different citizen initiatives, together with impartial and independent monitoring mechanisms that will contribute to election security.
We will enact the Law on Political Ethics and establish a "Political Ethics Board" to monitor whether politicians comply with the rules of political ethics.
We will make legal arrangements to prevent the Presidential discretionary fund from being used extravagantly for personal and political purposes.
CITIZEN SECURITY AND STATE ACCOUNTABILITY
RIGHT TO SECURITY
Recognizing the sanctity of citizens' right to life, we will uncompromisingly regulate all public practices according to this principle.
We will democratize the Law on the Duties and Powers of the Police.
We will prevent law enforcement officers from using disproportionate violence and weapons in a way that disregards the fundamental human rights of citizens.
We will not allow the abuse of the arbitrarily applied offenses of resisting and insulting a public officer.
PRIVACY OF PRIVATE LIFE
We will prevent access to personal data without a judge's decision and destroy personal data obtained in this way with a judicial decision.
We will revise the Law on the Protection of Personal Data in line with universal principles, including the right to be forgotten.
We will structure the activities of the Information and Communication Technologies Authority within the framework of the principle of protection of private life.
END IMPUNITY
We will end the impunity practices that have become a state policy.
We will ensure that the perpetrators are brought to justice as soon as possible.
If law enforcement officers abuse their powers, we will ensure that they are held accountable before the judiciary without the permission of the governor's office.
We will recourse the damages awarded by the ECtHR and the Constitutional Court to the public officials who caused the damage.
We will prevent the statute of limitations on hate crimes and the conversion of the sentences given in this context into fines.
RULE OF LAW AND INDEPENDENT JUDICIARY AGAINST AUTHORITARIANISM
INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS
We will free the Constitutional Court from political influence and change its structure.
We will ensure that some of its members will be directly elected by the General Assembly of the Court of Cassation, Council of State, Court of Accounts and Bar Association, and the remaining members will be elected by a qualified majority in the Turkish Grand National Assembly.
We will establish a "Judicial Law Enforcement Organization" that will work directly under the judiciary.
We will abolish the Criminal Judgeships of Peace, which contradicts universal law and judicial principles.
We will recognize the right to retrial in order to review past decisions of the Criminal Judgeships of Peace for compliance with the principle of fair trial.
We will restore administrative and academic autonomy to the Forensic Medicine Institution, which has been open to political influence.
We will make the Human Rights and Equality Institution of Turkey more effective in line with the Paris Principles and United Nations standards.
We will redefine terrorism offenses within the framework of democratic principles and put an end to their use as a means of arbitrary accusation.
UNEXCEPTIONABLE IMPLEMENTATION OF JUDICIAL DECISIONS
We will ensure that court decisions are implemented without exception and equally for all.
We will prevent courts from issuing unjustified judicial decisions and restricting citizens' fundamental rights and freedoms with these decisions.
We will ensure that Constitutional Court decisions are implemented.
RESTRUCTURING OF THE COUNCIL OF JUDGES AND PROSECUTORS
We will reorganize the HSK by dividing it into two, the "Council of Judges" and the "Council of Prosecutors".
We will make arrangements that respect the principle of judicial independence in the election process of these boards.
We will free the judiciary from the tutelage of politics by removing the Minister of Justice and the Undersecretary of the Ministry from these boards.
We will open all decisions of the Council of Judges and Prosecutors to judicial review.
INDEPENDENCE OF JUDGES AND PROSECUTORS
We will make merit a fundamental principle in the entry of judges and prosecutors into the profession.
We will establish an appointment and transfer system that will guarantee the independence and impartiality of judges.
We will implement the principle of geographical guarantee, which will prevent the exile of judges and prosecutors.
We will establish a "Judicial Ethics Board" consisting of members of the judiciary for a reliable judiciary.
We will ensure that judges and prosecutors work within the framework of ethical rules.
STRENGTHENED CIVIL SOCIETY
We will strengthen organized society, which is an indispensable element of libertarian democracy and checks and balances.
We will revise the legislation on associations, foundations and trade unions and make it modern and democratic.
We will legally guarantee the institutional and financial autonomy of public interest civil society organizations.
We will remove bureaucratic and legal barriers that restrict and complicate freedom of association.
We will prevent political pressure and interference in professional organizations.
We will reform the legislation on professional organizations in a way that strengthens their institutional autonomy and with the participation of stakeholders.
FREE MEDIA, FREE INTERNET
END TUTELAGE AND UNFAIR COMPETITION IN THE MEDIA
We will make the free press the fourth power of our democracy, after the legislature, the executive and the judiciary.
We will remove all obstacles to citizens' right to know the truth.
We will lift internet and social media bans.
We will eliminate RTÜK as an instrument of pressure and censorship.
We will end monopolization in the media.
To ensure the independence of the media, we will limit owners of media outlets from engaging in other commercial activities.
We will put an end to the use of public resources as a reward and public punishments as a stick to bring media organizations under the power.
We will ensure the political neutrality of TRT and Anadolu Agency by making them administratively and financially autonomous.
We will put an end to political staffing in these institutions.
We will ensure that newspapers are distributed by a company in which all media owners are partners.
We will not allow the monopolization of newspaper distribution.
We will make unionization in the media compulsory.
We will guarantee the freedom of media workers against their bosses.
We will restructure the Press Advertisement Agency and RTÜK.
We will ensure that journalists' unions are represented in both institutions.
We will establish objective criteria for the price tariff of public advertisements provided through the Press Advertisement Agency.
We will put an end to the use of mandatory advertisements on television as free propaganda tools under the name of public service announcements.
We will ensure that newspaper circulation, TV ratings and Internet traffic are measured objectively and that advertising revenues are allocated fairly.
We will solve the economic problems of local media so that they can publish freely and objectively.
We will support their independence.
We will ensure fair sharing of advertising revenues and reduce tax burdens.
FREE JOURNALISTS, FREE MEDIA
We will end the shame of imprisoned journalists.
We will prevent practices such as dismissals, embargoes, police repression, unlawful trials, censorship and defamation lawsuits against writers, journalists and media workers.
We will punish crimes against members of the press as severely as those against public officials.
We will narrow the scope of the concept of state secrets, which is arbitrarily applied against politicians and journalists.
We will not allow any crime to be hidden from the public under the guise of a state secret.
We will bring all laws and practices regarding the Internet up to the standards of democratic countries.
We will put an end to social media monitoring and surveillance that foster a culture of whistleblowing and surveillance society.
ECONOMY ABUNDANT PRODUCTION, EQUITABLE DISTRIBUTION
The 4th Industrial Revolution, initiated by new technologies and digital transformation, shapes the future of the world's societies and offers great opportunities for our country.
The story of Turkey that the AKP's one-man regime is trying to shape with a false narrative of stability has lost its credibility.
Their freedoms were restricted under the state of emergency,
disregarded the rule of law,
with its neighbors and allies,
from a country with an unqualified education system,
It is obvious that a breakthrough and economic development in the spirit of the age cannot be expected.
A country that loses its credibility and prestige is doomed to isolation and decline.
A strong economy is possible with an inclusive, consistent and progressive Turkey model in all areas.
As political problems worsen, the economy weakens and Turkey is rapidly disengaging from the developed world.
Today, we are falling behind even the middle income trap discussions that were on the agenda five years ago.
In terms of economic and social indicators, Turkey is rapidly drifting into the category of underdeveloped countries plagued by crises.
The vision of full EU membership, a rational development goal, is being replaced by the image of a country that has lost its direction in the Middle East.
Turkey is both breaking away from the West and losing its influence in the East.
However, as a Western country, it is possible to be more influential in the East, especially in its own region, and to be more credible and respected in the West through good relations with the East.
History shows that Turkey has been a stable democracy within the Western world.
and open to Eurasia and the Middle East, it can achieve a strong position in the international system.
This strong position reflects positively on all areas from foreign policy to tourism, from exports to the fight against terrorism.
The root cause of Turkey's economic problems is the authoritarian one-man rule.
Without restoring the separation of powers and a strengthened parliamentary democracy,
our current economic problems will not be solved and our development efforts will not achieve their goals.
are essential for economic stability and growth.
Rule of law and judicial independence
Entrepreneurs can only compete with the world in a country where law and freedom are fundamental.
The predictability of the business and investment environment is only possible in a system based on checks and balances.
Similarly, the independence of regulatory and supervisory institutions, particularly the Central Bank, is a necessity for economic development.
Today, millions of our people are burdened by debt,
unemployment
and the cost of living.
Economic injustice and inequalities are deepening day by day, with the richest 5% of society earning 24 times the income of the poorest 5%.
Around 16 million people are poor and this number has not been reduced for years.
6 million people are unemployed or have lost hope of finding a job.
Almost one in five young people cannot find a job.
Approximately 9.5 million people work precariously and informally.
The minimum wage is almost below the hunger threshold.
While millions are condemned to work for low minimum wages, the average wage in Turkey is very close to the minimum wage.
The earnings of tradesmen and farmers cannot cover their expenses and confidence in the economy is eroding.
These economic indicators and this authoritarian regime will not carry Turkey to the future it deserves.
The goal now should be a Turkey in the 21st century where our people will live in prosperity, self-confidence and peace.
We are from labor,
in favor of production and a productive and entrepreneurial business environment,
We are a party that respects people and nature.
The poor, the pensioner,
from tradesmen
from the farmer
from the producer
and all employees,
for a future centered on people and the environment,
We are a party that works in a spirit of solidarity.
Therefore, we will transform the structure of production, taking into account the requirements of the new digital age and the country's structural problems.
We will achieve our goal of quality growth without imposing additional burdens on our people.
By implementing a strong economic development program, families
and end the debt predicament of SMEs.
We will establish a planning approach that will rebuild Turkey's medium-term macroeconomic balances with a unity of objectives and instruments.
SHORT-TERM GOALS
In a period when interest rates around the world have started to rise and investors have adopted a more cautious attitude, countries like Turkey that need foreign resources for growth have become relatively more risky.
In addition, geopolitical developments in our region pose additional risk factors for Turkey.
In the remainder of 2018, external economic and political developments are not expected to provide any significant support to the Turkish economy, and may even pose some challenges.
In such an environment, it is more important than ever that our economy remains healthy.
Therefore, rapid job-creating growth is a top priority for our country, which is still growing in population and has been experiencing high levels of immigration in recent years.
The sine qua non condition for this is that investments continue to increase.
To this end, on the one hand, our banks must have the resources to support these investments, and on
the other, the balance sheets of private sector companies must be strong.
On the other hand, the corporate sector, especially SMEs, has been experiencing a serious cash crunch for some time.
Although programs such as the Credit Guarantee Fund (KGF) and the Breath Credit, which were introduced in 2017, provided partial relief, the market has come to expect the continuation of such programs, leading to irregularities in cash flows.
However, it is crucial for the health of the sector that SMEs are able to survive on their own, without being dependent on such support.
High inflation, rising interest rates and exchange rates on the one hand, the rapid rise in labor costs and the escalation in commodity prices in foreign markets on the other, have pushed companies' production costs to intolerable levels.
Companies pass on cost increases to their sales prices as market conditions permit, but this leads to inflation.
Businesses, which are only able to reflect a certain portion of cost increases in prices, are struggling to maintain their financial health due to shrinking profit margins and deteriorating cash flows.
During the period of rapid investment and growth in 2010-2013, the indebtedness ratios of companies operating in the construction, energy, infrastructure, tourism and transportation sectors increased significantly.
Unable to generate the cash they had planned from their investments, companies are struggling to roll over their debts to banks.
After 2010, almost all of the loans provided for large-scale investments are denominated in foreign currency.
Therefore, the rate of increase in exchange rates makes it difficult for companies to predict the markets.
In recent days, some of the leading companies of our country have had difficulties in repaying their debts and have come to the table with banks to restructure their loans, which shows that the distress in the business world is not limited to small and medium-sized companies, but has also spread to large and well-established organizations with operations abroad.
If restructuring demands continue to spread, the banking sector could be in deep trouble.
Additional measures are therefore needed to alleviate the distress of the corporate sector.
In order to realize our medium and long-term goals, it is imperative to put out the fire in the Turkish economy.
To this end, our short-term goals are as follows: The state of emergency will be lifted immediately.
A normalized and democratized political climate will help stabilize macroeconomic indicators.
By ensuring the rule of law, contract security, regulatory stability and predictability will be rebuilt.
As risk perception decreases, confidence in our country will increase.
The most important condition for investment is business confidence in the government and the country.
In every field of our country, from economy to internal security, from foreign policy to education, cadres with merit and competence will take over the power.
The state will now be governed according to ability and merit.
All regulatory institutions in the economy, especially the Central Bank, will function independently.
Urgent measures will be taken against inflation and markets will be reassured by announcing appropriate fiscal targets.
Waste, nepotism and corruption that lead to the squandering of public resources will be stopped immediately.
Austerity policies will be implemented in the public sector.
With political stability, security spending will be reduced.
Tax reform will reduce informality and ensure tax justice.
Considering the overheating in the economy, the growth target for the first year will be reasonable.
In the medium term, an inclusive and high rate of growth that prioritizes productivity growth, technological advances, clean energy sources and investment in people will be made permanent.
The minimum wage will be raised to 2,200 liras net, and all poor people will be provided with health insurance through the Family Insurance scheme.
Existing incentives for companies, with a priority for SMEs, will be used more comprehensively and effectively; new business projects will be facilitated in the digital environment and with the support of the financial system.
Social enterprises and SME power alliances will be encouraged.
The vision of digital transformation and Industry 4.0-oriented growth will immediately be the main axis of all public policies.
Free and fast Internet environment,
R&D incentives, creative,
policies for young entrepreneurs
and investment in our human resources will dominate all public policies.
A technology spring will be launched in Turkey, fed by our national human resources.
Incentives and tax incentives for women's employment and entrepreneurship will be rapidly introduced.
Nurseries for working mothers will be expanded in every neighborhood by public, municipal and private institutions.
The European Union full membership process will be revitalized.
Healthier economic relations with Europe will be established with a Customs Union revision that protects the interests of our producers.
With these relations, our level of technology will increase,
foreign investments will increase
and employment will increase.
With sustainable relations and healthy integration, our global economic relations will be improved and our country will become a center of attraction for foreign direct investments.
MEDIUM AND LONG TERM GOALS
Our economic policies have five main objectives in the medium and long term: To specialize in the production of high value-added goods and services, To
raise the quality of the labor force and increase the general level of wages, To
transform the business ecosystem
, To eliminate regional inequalities
, To bring all the poor under the umbrella of Family Insurance.
In line with these objectives, we will achieve 5 main targets in 5 years: We will raise per capita income to 15 thousand dollars.
Inflation and
We will reduce unemployment to below 5%.
We will reduce the current account deficit to below 4% of national income.
We will eliminate poverty in this land.
We will increase the share of high- and medium-high technology goods and services in manufacturing industry exports to 60% of the world average.
We will pull Turkey's economy out of the bind it is trapped in.
Against fear and despair, we will manage change and build our future in a spirit of trust and solidarity.
We will fully realize the principle of social state.
Our country has a dynamic population and many unique economic resources and opportunities.
Our main goal is the development of our country, the equitable sharing of prosperity and the achievement of a happy and peaceful life without worrying about the future for every citizen.
With rational and planned economic breakthroughs, we will seize the unique opportunities offered by the age.
Together, we will create a prosperous country where every citizen has a job and a job, where no citizen has to worry about the future, where our children, youth and women look to the future with confidence and hope.
We will carry out the following five programs to achieve the five main goals in the economy: High Value-Added Production Program,
Development Generations Program,
Business Power Union Program,
Growth with High Wages Program,
Fair Sharing Program.
1. HIGH VALUE ADDED PRODUCTION PROGRAM
The main objectives of the High Value-Added Production Program will be to reduce the input costs of our sectors producing goods and services, alleviate their public burdens, and enable them to reach target markets much more easily by reducing common expenses through clusters.
We are aware of the opportunities and threats presented by Industry 4.0, the production paradigm of the future.
We will pave the way for the establishment of businesses that use, develop and produce technological tools such as the Internet of Things, big data, augmented reality, three-dimensional printers that reduce costs, increase productivity and product quality, and provide brand new benefits to consumers.
We will support young people and women who want to start new businesses in this direction.
We will build an economy that creates global brands through national supply chains that our large-scale enterprises will establish in cooperation with small-scale enterprises.
In line with the needs of the new digital age, we will develop mechanisms where large enterprises and small start-up companies can establish strong collaborations.
We will transform the business ecosystem and create a predictable and sustainable investment environment.
We will overcome the problems Turkey's economy faces in terms of productivity and international competitiveness.
We will make our economy production-oriented, not rent-oriented.
Not through borrowing, but through income growth and
We will grow with fair distribution.
We will develop sectors fueled by technology, science and R&D, not production and service areas that Western countries export to countries like ours.
We will prepare our SMEs for the economy of the future and make them pioneers of the digital age.
In the current situation, the factor productivity of our SMEs is not increasing and is not giving the desired impetus to growth.
Therefore, the production and use of digital technologies is becoming an inevitable necessity rather than a choice.
With the steps we will take towards digitalization, we will increase the management quality of SMEs and ensure the spread of digital technologies among our SMEs by creating environments to develop competencies, innovation and collaborations with the Digital Transformation Centers to be established in each province.
Thanks to this transformation, we will not only be customers of Industry 4.0 technologies, but also producers.
To this end, we will harmonize education and digital infrastructure with the Industry 4.0 process.
We will complement Industry 4.0 with Labor 4.0.
Within the scope of Labor 4.0, we will ensure that the worker's qualifications increase in accordance with his/her level of education and the nature of his/her work.
We will provide additional support to companies that invest in equipping their employees with the competencies required by the new digital age.
We will offer new educational opportunities for young people with state support.
We will establish stronger and more effective university and industry collaborations to improve competencies, increase employment, and eliminate the talent mismatch, the gap between the competencies needed by the business world and the competencies of the existing workforce.
Thanks to these policies, products that are sought after and mentioned in the world will bear the stamp of Made in Turkey.
Turkey itself will become a brand.
Our enterprises will become sought-after actors in world markets in terms of design and technology power, benefits and services offered to consumers, global production volume, competitiveness and quality.
2. ANATOLIAN DEVELOPMENT BELTS AND CENTRAL TURKEY PROGRAM
In a country where the place of birth determines the fate of its citizens, we cannot ensure social welfare.
Under AKP rule, regional inequalities have deepened and the gap between Istanbul, Turkey's highest per capita income province, and Ağrı, Turkey's lowest income province, has reached 80 thousand TL per year.
We will simultaneously implement the Five Development Belts under the umbrella of the "Central Turkey Project" to redevelop Anatolia.
With these projects, we will eliminate interregional inequalities and ensure Turkey's integration with the global economy.
The 5 Development Belts integrated within the "Central Turkey Project", each highlighting the comparative advantages of its region, will lead Turkey's sustainable growth.
The Eastern Belt of the Five Development Belts: It will cover the provinces in the Eastern and Southeastern Anatolia regions.
It will be employment-oriented with the aim of solving the region's worsening unemployment and migration problem.
Sun Belt It will cover the provinces in Central Anatolia and Eastern Mediterranean regions.
It will increase cooperation, division of labor and coordination between Ankara and other industrializing provinces such as Konya, Sivas, Kayseri, Gaziantep, Hatay, Adana and Mersin, and will help them gain regional dynamism.
Black Sea Belt: The center of attraction will cover the Central and Eastern Black Sea regions.
The primary objective of this strategy will be to sell agricultural products at their value and to ensure sectoral diversification in employment.
Marmara Region: In addition to the Marmara Region, it will cover the provinces in the Western Black Sea, Northern Aegean and northwestern Central Anatolia.
It will aim to create a polycentric economic circle around the services and industrial sectors by integrating different geographical and economic regions with the Marmara Sea at its center.
Blue Western Belt: It will cover the Aegean and western provinces of the Western Mediterranean and Central Anatolia.
It will aim to increase the added value generated by tourism activities and link the sector to the region's agricultural activities and traditional industrial production.
The synergy center of high-tech industrial production will be the Blue West Belt.
The heart of Central Turkey will be the Eastern, Sun and Black Sea Belt.
By bringing the development belts and priority regions that make up the "Central Turkey Project" closer to the national average and the other regions closer to the EU average, we will achieve the following objectives: Employment: Both the root cause and the direct consequence of regional development disparities is the imbalance in employment rates between regions.
Our main goal is to reduce this imbalance by developing projects that will create employment.
Interregional convergence in employment will lead to convergence in income levels.
Trade volume: Development belts will lead to increased intra-regional and inter-regional trade.
The growth of regional trade volume will strengthen the tendency towards clustering.
High Value Added Production: The common problem of relatively advantaged regions in terms of employment and trade volume is low value-added production.
Our main objective in these regions and provinces will be to increase the use and production of new technologies by creating synergy and coordination among enterprises in strategic sectors.
With the "Central Turkey Project", we will take advantage of the opportunities created by the Silk Road from China to Europe and ensure that Turkey gains an advantage in both logistics and the production of manufactured goods.
To unlock the country's logistical advantages, we will build railway lines connecting the Black Sea to the Mediterranean via Eastern and Central Anatolia.
We will create a transportation circle around the Marmara Region.
We will establish a transportation network that will strengthen the connections between Anatolia's industrial bases, especially the provinces in the Sun Belt, and increase their transportation capacity.
We will build industrial complexes in the form of special industrial zones in our three largest cities in the Eastern Belt.
We will establish 400 medium-scale public enterprises in priority regions for development, 135 of which will be in the Eastern Belt.
With the "Central Turkey Project", we will transform our country into a technology and logistics hub connecting East Asia, the Middle East and Europe.
Through democratic planning, these investments will bring regional development belts into interaction with the economies of neighboring countries.
In this way, development belts will improve the production potential of our regions and
increase exports to neighboring countries.
3. SOCIAL ENTERPRISES AND POWER ALLIANCE PROGRAM
We see that Turkey's production structure has two major problems.
The first problem is that our SMEs are weak, fragile and short-lived.
The second problem is that the weak production structure creates predominantly low-wage and unskilled employment.
As a result of these problems, on the one hand, we cannot move to a sustainable growth path, and on
the other hand, we cannot solve the social problems created by income inequality.
In order to solve these problems, we need to strengthen our SMEs in global competition,
On the other hand, we need to reduce social vulnerabilities by spreading capital to the grassroots.
As one of the most effective methods of achieving both objectives, we aim to popularize the Social Enterprise Model as an alternative.
The Social Enterprise Model is based on employees receiving a share of profits, businesses joining sectoral or regional forces to reduce costs, and strengthening their corporate capacities in cooperation with large-scale corporate companies.
Our planned Social Enterprise Model will be more comprehensive than the social enterprise model outlined by the European Commission.
In the EU system, the scope of social enterprises is limited to social purposes, whereas in our model we will encourage social enterprises in all sectors.
To increase productivity by enabling employees to be more effective in production through social enterprises,
to eliminate income inequality,
to increase the motivation and quality of employees,
We aim to ensure the active participation of disadvantaged groups such as women, youth and the disabled in the economy.
We aim to reduce costs, support new businesses based on creativity, and enable small businesses to benefit from the corporate capacity of large-scale companies.
With the system we will establish, our social enterprises will meet their procurement, marketing, design, R&D and financing needs together.
The enterprises included in the system will complete large volume orders collaboratively, reduce costs by purchasing inputs jointly, and fulfill their marketing, design and R&D needs through the Social Enterprise Associations they will establish and with the financial and technical support of the Ministry of Development.
Our social enterprises will be able to access financing through the investment fund they will establish and on more attractive terms than those offered by the market.
By joining forces within the social enterprise system, SMEs will be able to increase their competitiveness and earnings, and overcome their financial difficulties.
Social Enterprise Associations will ensure market access for our social enterprises by carrying out marketing, promotion and customer outreach activities abroad, especially in export-oriented sectors.
Our economy will generate more added value as a result of longer average business life, increased profitability and employees becoming stakeholders in production.
Specialization will increase with the extension of business life and production quality will increase with employees becoming stakeholders.
With the spread of social enterprises, we will find solutions to the persistent problems of many Anatolian cities.
On the one hand, we will continue to provide existing support to SMEs, and on the
other hand, we will provide guidance to encourage the use of high technology.
In addition, we will implement incentives that offer cost advantages to SMEs while increasing the competitiveness of large companies.
We will organize co-working offices, angel investor incentives and provide support to small development companies (start-ups).
4. HIGH WAGE GROWTH PROGRAM
We aim to make growth inclusive by increasing the share of workers in national income.
Because we are seeing the collapse of neoliberal economic policies based on trickle-down theory, which consider raising workers' incomes as a secondary goal.
Thanks to our high wage priority, which we will support with production and productivity growth, we will increase the productivity of employees with more humane wages and working conditions.
A gradual increase in the wage level, accompanied by partial sacrifices by the public sector and wealth holders, will boost domestic demand and create a revival, while increasing the amount of savings.
We will support policies to build a qualified workforce through wage increases.
In this way, we will reduce our current account deficit by competing on quality and added value instead of price in global competition.
The high wage policy we will implement under the High Wage Growth Program will consist of two axes.
First, we will make arrangements in favor of employees regarding the factors that determine the net disposable income of employees, especially the minimum wage, and we will encourage employees to join trade unions.
Second, we will create the necessary resources to raise the wage level, while rationalizing, making transparent and efficient the use of the public budget.
On the other hand, by setting stability and fair distribution as the goal in monetary and fiscal policies, we will ensure that the resources transferred to rentiers are reflected in the wages of workers.
We will ensure that an increase in the general level of wages contributes to the utilization of workers' skills, thereby improving the standard of living, quality of life and productivity.
5. EQUITABLE SHARING PROGRAM
The production structure of our economy, left to its own devices, cannot crown growth with employment.
Due to the growing employment gap, the number of people who cannot find a job is increasing and our youth and women are excluded from the labor force.
Our employees are at risk of losing their jobs at any moment due to informal employment and job insecurity.
Therefore, in order to urgently respond to the problems caused by the economic instability created by the current government, to protect our workers against the risks in the market mechanism and to support our citizens who are subjected to social exclusion, we will implement social policies that will cover all poor and excluded groups.
The social policies we will implement under the Fair Share Program consist of two main components.
The first of these is Family Insurance and
the second is the tax reform in favor of the poor.
Family Insurance
The main objective of Family Insurance is to raise the income level of poverty-stricken households to half of the real median income.
In other words, our Family Insurance scheme will not provide a fixed amount of support to poor households.
We will make a supplement that will vary according to the situation of households and their current income.
In this way, we will end severe poverty at a low cost and ensure that all households have a monthly income above 1,000 TL.
The first phase of our Family Insurance project will be the introduction of a Family Pension to address the immediate problem of poverty, until the administrative structure of the project is in place.
Since the current government has left a wreckage that will lead to destruction for the poor, with this support program, which we will implement rapidly after the elections, we will deposit 1,000 TL per month into the accounts of women in every household whose GSS premiums are paid by the state (green card holders) as of September 15, 2018.
We will provide water, electricity and heating support to families who receive a family pension so that they can meet their minimum needs.
With 45 thousand new public employment, we will appoint a family counselor for every 500 households.
Family counselors, who will operate in the same building with family physicians, will contribute to the solution of socio-economic problems, even if families do not request it, by dealing one-on-one with not only economic but also social problems of each household.
Through this administrative structure, we will provide every poor family with support under the Family Insurance Project, with a more efficient use of resources than the current government.
With the Family Salary, we will eliminate the severe poverty of 8 million citizens in the first phase, and with the full implementation of Family Insurance, we will eliminate the severe poverty of 16 million citizens without cutting social assistance.
The annual cost of the Family Insurance Project will be equivalent to the current social assistance budget.
We will reduce the number of poor by raising the general level of wages and closing the employment gap.
We will prevent social problems by providing family counselors to prevent domestic violence and provide employment-oriented guidance.
Tax Reform
The second component is tax reform.
Current tax policies transfer wealth from the poor, working people and those subject to social exclusion to the rentier class.
Therefore, our tax reform is primarily a social policy instrument.
This reform consists of three elements.
The first is to reduce indirect taxes.
By reducing the tax burden on basic goods and services through a reduction in indirect taxes, we will not only reduce the need for social assistance, but also ensure that our people have access to basic needs, especially food, and improve their quality of life.
Second, by implementing corrective taxation policies, we will tax everyone according to the principle of ability to pay.
With these policies, we will both prevent the shrinkage in indirect taxes from putting pressure on the public budget
and prevent informal employment by ensuring tax justice.
Third, by making the tax system transparent, we will eliminate injustice between tax payers and non-tax payers.
By ensuring fairness in taxation, we will prevent the decline in collection rates and put an end to uncertainties regarding public finances.
HIGH-WAGE AND HIGH-EARNINGS GROWTH
MINIMUM WAGE
On January 1, 2019, we will make the net minimum wage 2,200 TL.
We will not charge income tax on minimum wage.
We will raise the minimum wage every six months (January - July), not once a year.
We will determine the minimum wage increase every six months, taking into account inflation and the share of welfare increase.
INCOME FAIRNESS
We will give pensioners a salary bonus on Ramadan and Eid al-Adha.
For families who do not have a house and who will buy a house to live in, we will provide loans from public banks with a maturity of up to 20 years and a monthly interest rate of 0.5%.
In this loan, we will not require a 20% down payment and we will set the upper limit at 300 thousand TL.
We will also provide refinancing opportunities to our citizens who have already taken out loans under the same conditions.
As of 26.05.2018, we will purchase credit card and consumer loan debts that are in arrears in banks and asset management companies on a risk basis, erase all financial obligations such as debt interest, taxes, duties, fees, file fees, cover fees, etc., collect only the principal amount by spreading it over a long term and erase the debtors' registry records.
We will remove SCT and VAT from the diesel used by farmers in production.
Thus, we will give 3 TL per liter of diesel to farmers.
We will write off the interest on our farmers' agricultural loan debts.
We will cancel the General Health Insurance premium debts of our citizens who are included in the scope of Family Insurance.
When determining the wage increases of all public employees and pensioners, we will fully include not only inflation but also the welfare share arising from growth.
We will ensure fairness in taxation and tax those who earn less and those who earn more.
We will reorganize the income tax brackets of wage earners and tradesmen to exempt their income up to the minimum wage from income tax.
GROWING ECONOMY
We will replace the current growth approach based on making the rich richer with an inclusive and sustainable development approach based on equitable sharing.
We will increase not only national income but also the quality of life and happiness of our citizens.
We will rapidly eliminate income inequality by ensuring that our productive and working citizens are compensated for their labor.
We will build an economic structure based on high income, savings and production instead of an economic structure based on borrowing and consumption through debt.
We will rapidly reduce unemployment rates by improving the investment climate, increasing public investment and employment.
Instead of an economy based on primitive and dirty industry, an economy that produces high added value
and build a strong economy that respects the environment.
We will adopt a development and welfare program that uses energy rationally and is at peace with nature.
CORPORATE INFRASTRUCTURE
We will establish a transparent, accountable, fair, competitive and predictable economic order.
We will prevent the looting of our taxes and public resources by ensuring that the Court of Accounts conducts effective audits again.
We will establish a Final Accounts Commission in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey for effective budget control.
We will set fiscal targets in the Medium Term Program and the Budget Law to establish predictability and confidence in the economy.
We will eliminate the looting system established in public tenders and establish a fair and competitive tender system.
We will bring the Public Procurement Law in line with international standards and remove all exceptions to the law.
We will strengthen social dialogue mechanisms in working life, in particular the Economic and Social Council.
We will eliminate the victimization caused by partisan tax penalties.
We will establish the "Human Development Strategies and Information Policies Institution" to plan Turkey's production capacity and human resources in the medium and long term.
MONETARY AND FISCAL POLICY FOCUSED ON DEVELOPMENT AND STABILITY
We will restore the institutional reputation and independence of the Central Bank.
In Turkey, we will redefine the relationship between fiscal and monetary policies in line with achieving growth and price stability together.
We will put an end to the predominance of Central Bank executives as members of the Monetary Policy Committee and increase the number of independent members.
We will end all kinds of funds, special accounts and expenditure practices that are moved outside the budget to evade parliamentary scrutiny.
We will put an end to the Wealth Fund practice.
We will prevent the executive from usurping the budget authority of the Parliament through appropriation transfers.
We will reduce the borrowing requirement and reduce the interest burden on the public sector by preventing waste and increasing efficiency in the public sector.
HIGH VALUE-ADDED PRODUCTION
FAVORABLE CLIMATE FOR INVESTMENTS
We will lift the state of emergency and create a predictable and reliable environment for investors by ensuring legal security and judicial independence.
We will establish the full independence of regulatory and supervisory institutions.
We will ensure that these institutions have a structure that will prevent monopolization and protect public interest, competition and consumer rights.
We will provide predictability and stability in laws and regulations.
We will immediately put an end to special incentive practices that lead to unfair competition, which turn into concession distribution and capitulations.
By raising the general level of wages and earnings, we will stimulate domestic demand, thereby increasing the attractiveness of investment.
We will increase the volume of value-added investment thanks to the rising quality of education and a skilled workforce.
We will reduce the current account deficit and inflation, stabilize exchange rates, increase economic predictability and create a stable investment environment.
SECTORAL PRIORITIES FOR INTEGRATED GROWTH
Agriculture
We will transform Turkey from an importer to an exporter in agriculture.
We will apply Article 21 of the Agricultural Law.
We will double the agricultural subsidies of 1% of GDP.
We will reduce taxes on inputs such as seeds, fertilizers and pesticides used in agricultural production and lower costs.
We will solve the problem of agricultural insurance for fragmented agricultural lands.
We will write off all the interest on our farmers' agricultural loan debts.
We will establish a Producer Registration System that records all agricultural and animal production in Turkey.
We will ensure that all SSI premiums of producers registered in the system are fully covered by the state.
We will include all crops, production tools and animals in the scope of agricultural insurance, with premiums covered by the state as soon as they are registered in the system.
We will remove all deductions from the subsidies given to farmers under the name of file money, overhead costs, etc.
We will determine agricultural subsidies by calculating the input costs of the farmer and adding the farmer's profit to it and announce it a year in advance.
We will increase support amounts by at least the rate of inflation.
We will stop the privatization of all agricultural SOEs.
We will cancel the privatization tenders of sugar factories.
We will include beet producers' cooperatives and labor unions in the management of the factories.
We will increase sugar beet production.
We will reduce energy imports by converting surplus sugar into bioethanol to be blended with fuel oil.
We will exempt biofuels from SCT and VAT.
We will limit the production of starch-based sugar (NBŞ) and support domestic beet sugar.
We will severely punish NBŞ smuggling.
We will provide each villager with equipment and technical assistance to install solar panels with a power of at least 10 kW on the roof of their house, barn, garage or garden with a 10-year term and zero-interest loan.
We will provide zero-interest loans with a 10-year maturity to irrigation unions and villages that need water network pumping and enable them to meet their energy needs from the sun.
We will provide support for water use in villages and agricultural irrigation; we will cover the costs of networks, boreholes and pipes from the central budget.
We will provide all kinds of technical and consultancy support for agriculture and animal husbandry through cooperatives and in coordination with regional universities.
In this context, we will employ at least 40 thousand agricultural engineers, veterinarians and technicians.
With the Land Acquisition Office we will establish, we will complete land consolidation activities within 5 years.
We will activate Pasture Management Unions and will not allow misuse of the pastures we will rehabilitate.
We will ensure that pastures remain the common property of the village.
We will establish gene banks, laboratories and production stations to improve local seeds and protect biodiversity.
We will reduce the capacity limitations that prevent domestic industrialists and tobacco producer cooperatives from producing tobacco products.
We will support the organization of tobacco producers under the umbrella of cooperatives and turn Turkey from a tobacco importing country into a tobacco exporting country.
We will implement capacity arrangements that will enable grape producers to produce vinegar and spirits through cooperatives and social enterprises.
We will establish the "Hazelnut Exchange" in the Black Sea region.
We will restore FISKOBİRLİK to an autonomous structure that regulates the market in favor of the producer.
We will make FISKOBİRLİK the world's largest direct hazelnut exporter and a world brand in chocolate production.
We will set the 2018 hazelnut purchase price at least 15 TL.
We will develop a base price practice that will guarantee the producer's income against fluctuations in yield.
We will provide the financing needed by Çay-Kur from the budget and we will definitely not privatize Çay-Kur.
We will gradually transfer Tea-Kur to producer cooperatives.
We will abolish the tea purchase quota.
We will ensure that Çay-Kur buys all the tea of the producer.
We will protect olive groves.
We will expand the production and consumption of olive oil.
We will give a support premium of 1.5 TL per liter for olive oil and 1 TL per kilo for table olives.
We will increase support premiums every year in line with inflation.
In our textile looms, we will ensure that the cotton produced by our farmers from local seeds is processed and exported.
We will announce the cotton support premium for 5-year periods and update it by taking into account the cost of production and world prices.
We will support producers with medium and long-term policies for the production of oilseeds, especially sunflower and corn.
By reducing input costs, we will end import dependency.
We will make it easier for small producers to trade in the Agricultural Exchanges.
Animal Production
In order to increase the presence of livestock in all rural areas, we will ensure the expansion of small and medium-sized enterprises and encourage cooperatives with support.
In line with the demands of the National Red Meat Council, we will implement a carcass classification system for bovine and ovine animals.
We will redesign the school milk program and use public procurement to support the sector.
Forestry
We will ensure that state forests are managed by the state.
We will end the practice of selling standing trees in forestry works and sales.
We will not allow the reduction and privatization of forest areas.
We will increase incentives for industrial plantations to meet the need for forest products.
We will organize the most comprehensive afforestation campaign in Turkey.
By investing in the pharmaceutical and cosmetics industry, where natural forest products are used as raw materials, we will produce products with high added value.
Agriculture Based Industry
We will turn the increasing demand for organic food into an employment and growth opportunity for our food sector.
We will promote offshore fishing and frozen products.
We will take measures to ensure sustainable fishing in the aquaculture sector and support freshwater fisheries.
We will increase coordination to utilize idle capacity in the frozen food sector.
We will ensure that the products produced in winter and spring are processed.
We will contribute to the growth of the vegetable oil sector by encouraging alternative oilseed cultivation and preventing adulteration.
We will make the feed industry fully operational with domestic products and raw materials.
We will register wheat.
We will prevent price fluctuations in the flour and bakery products sector.
We will encourage the use of alternative domestic raw materials such as hemp in the production of cellulose in the paper industry.
We will ensure that GMO-free Turkish Cotton is recognized.
Industry
We will introduce a single VAT rate in the textile sector.
We will increase the quality of raw leather by registering slaughterhouses.
We will establish specialized organized industrial zones in provinces where the furniture sector is developed.
We will also grant this status to industrial zones where furniture businesses are clustered, such as Siteler in Ankara.
We will encourage the use of domestic raw materials in the apparel sector.
We will identify cellulose as a strategic product.
We will establish a public enterprise to produce high-volume cellulose.
We will support investments in molding activities in the plastics sector.
We will allocate additional budgets to universities for research in the production of polymer composites and automotive intermediate products in the rubber sector.
We will open a public enterprise to produce polypropylene.
We will support nanotechnology studies in the chemical sector.
We will provide clustering in petrochemicals, petrorafinery and liquid chemical products by establishing a Chemical Special Industrial Zone.
This will reduce storage and energy costs.
We will ensure that the machinery manufacturing sector is included in international trade agreements.
We will reduce the tax on used machinery exports by linking it to depreciation.
We will improve packaging standards in the machinery sector, especially for export products.
We will continue our new investments, growth targets and support in R&D in the automotive sector.
We will provide the necessary incentives for electric vehicle production.
We will provide the necessary incentives for the development and adaptation of driverless vehicle technology.
We will provide additional incentives for investments in critical intermediate inputs in the manufacture of electrical products such as compressors and DC motors.
We will recognize model and ratio changes that are important in the portfolio of companies manufacturing electrical products as product development activities.
We will increase the competence of steel service centers.
We will use local inputs in our railway investments.
We will employ our own engineers and workers.
We will support the production of tool steels in the metal industry.
Services
Tourism
We will re-establish the Ministry of Tourism by creating separate ministries for Culture and Tourism.
We will declare 800 villages as tourism villages every year and develop village tourism infrastructure.
In 5 years, we will build at least 40 thousand rooms in at least 4 thousand tourism villages.
We will ensure diversity in tourism with periodic promotion programs focusing on themes such as health, culture, gastronomy, faith, fair and congress tourism.
Every year, we will provide 5 thousand TL domestic tourism voucher support to 100 thousand families without means.
Within the scope of the Tourism Trains Project, we will organize tours of Turkey with specially equipped trains.
We will offer product development and license support.
We will increase competitiveness by branding cities in tourism.
We will complete the inventory of the country's historical and natural riches and create a map of tourism attractions.
Informatics and Telecommunications
Within the framework of the right to Internet, we will provide citizens with broadband Internet access up to 2 GB per month free of charge.
We will encourage the domestic software sector.
We will expand the use of open source code in public institutions.
We will take measures to increase the e-commerce capacity of SMEs and social enterprises.
We will encourage SMEs and social enterprises to use cloud computing, electronic procurement and inventory management.
We will use the Universal Service Fund for its intended purpose.
By completing the fiber optic infrastructure, we will ensure that quality and cheap Internet service is provided to every corner of the country.
We will guarantee net neutrality.
We will completely abolish the SCT on information and communication technologies and services based on these technologies, and reduce the VAT.
We will remove all barriers to competition in the telecommunications sector, particularly in fixed telephony and infrastructure services.
We will establish Start-up Acceleration Programs.
We will make a seed investment of 1 billion TL in start-ups within the scope of social business.
In the IT sector, we will provide a corporate tax discount to companies that generate half of their turnover through exports.
We will utilize the opportunities brought by digital technologies to ensure the sustainability and efficient use of energy and other resources.
We will increase studies and incentives for robot production, design and artificial intelligence.
We will increase resources allocated to areas such as data analytics, the Internet of Things, 3D printers, cyber security, biotechnology, nanotechnology and precision medicine, and support the training of human resources, development and production of technology in these areas.
We will adapt the globally accepted criteria for blockchain technology to our economy in accordance with our needs and conditions.
Trade and Other Services
We will ensure the use of information technologies such as cloud-based applications, mobile interaction, enriched reality applications.
We will promote databases and networks for small and medium-sized retailers to facilitate supply relationships with local producers.
We will encourage production and exports in the TV series and film sector.
Transportation and Logistics
We will set highway and bridge tolls priced in foreign currency in Turkish Lira.
We will reduce tolls by 50%.
We will give the necessary weight to public transportation, sea and railways in our transportation policy.
In line with the Five Belt Regional Development Plans, we will implement new railway projects on the north-south line, especially in the Eastern Belt, and ensure the development of the north-south corridor in transportation.
We will eliminate the confusion of authority in port management.
We will improve the linkages of regional logistics hubs with the region's production centers and social enterprise network.
We will strengthen the connection of logistics bases with customs gates and ports, and increase railway transportation capacity.
We will connect all planned logistics bases to the railway network.
We will improve the transportation and logistics infrastructure, focusing on the use of information technology, environmental protection, life safety and decent living conditions for workers.
Within 5 years, we will double the weight of railways in freight and passenger transportation.
We will ensure the development of specialized ports in maritime transportation.
We will end the unfair competition created by political favoritism in the maritime transportation sector.
We will encourage the rejuvenation of the merchant fleet and increase its capacity.
We will take measures to increase competitiveness in the shipbuilding industry.
We will increase shipbuilding capacity, taking into account environmental sensitivity and workplace safety.
We will create an offshore platform fleet led by TPAO and support the construction of offshore platform support vessels.
We will make arrangements to minimize the waiting time at customs gates, improve the capacity and technological infrastructure of customs gates and increase the number of employees.
Environmentally Responsible Energy and Mining Policies
We will use systems based on solar energy and with high efficiency in street lighting.
We will make it a legal obligation for thermal power plants to be built with environmentally friendly and highly efficient technologies.
By increasing the share of domestic and renewable resources in electricity generation, we will solve the problems of external dependence and security in energy.
We will share the financial burden of thermal insulation in buildings and solar panel investment.
We will provide insulation technology with domestic production.
We will provide zero-interest loans to apartment buildings using solar panels for panel investment.
We will collect the loan repayments from the electricity generated.
We will increase our natural gas storage capacity to at least a quarter of our annual consumption.
We will end inefficient and non-transparent privatization practices in the energy sector.
We will carry out R&D studies in the field of energy in cooperation with the public, private sector and universities.
We will increase the domestic production rate of technology and equipment in the sector.
We will not allow risky power plants based on existing nuclear energy technologies, which have not resolved their problems, to be built in our country.
In the mining sector, we will expand the use of advanced technology at every stage from exploration to the final product.
We will make occupational and worker safety a top priority in mining activities.
We will not allow the privatization of boron mines.
We will autonomize and develop the Boron Institute.
We will cancel royalty contracts in state-owned mining enterprises and ensure that public mines are operated by the public.
BUSINESS POWER ALLIANCE
ENTERPRISES BASED ON TECHNOLOGY AND SKILLED LABOR
We will pursue an industrial and technology policy that supports the use of high technology, high value-added production and low energy consumption.
We will ensure that incentives and support services are easily accessible online.
SOCIAL ENTERPRISES AND SME POWER ALLIANCE
We will provide SMEs and social enterprises with interest-free business loans equal to the amount of taxes and insurance premiums they pay.
We will urgently pay the VAT receivables of our SMEs.
We will prepare a rescue plan together with the banking sector to solve the debt problem of our SMEs and save them from follow-up.
We will encourage our SMEs, which we will protect from the destructive competition of monopolies, to transform into social enterprises and establish sectoral power unions.
We will provide an additional cost advantage of 10%-30% in public procurement to support companies founded by women entrepreneurs and young entrepreneurs.
We will establish a Social Enterprise Investment Fund, to which the public contributes, for financing, market access, development of R&D and design, and reduction of production and input costs.
We will exempt all transactions of the Social Enterprise Investment Fund from taxes, duties and fees.
We will conduct public procurement in a way that supports social enterprises and encourages high value-added production.
Cooperatives
We will pave the way for tradesmen and craftsmen who want to increase their competitiveness to come together through regional cooperatives.
We will organize the legal and technical infrastructure of cooperatives to support production and the new business ecosystem.
We will implement a model where cooperative unions and central unions can work in harmony.
We will lease uncultivated fragmented agricultural land through cooperatives.
We will restart agricultural production on the merged lands with farmers, agricultural faculties and public resources.
R&D Oriented Production
We will capitalize on all the opportunities created by Industry 4.0 and transform Turkey into a technological development base.
We will rapidly increase the ratio of R&D expenditures to GDP and bring it to the EU average of 3%.
We will facilitate access to R&D support, enable companies to apply for all kinds of support from a single point, and prevent bureaucratic obstacles for entrepreneurs seeking research and product development.
We will ensure that our young people learn a foreign language, software and coding in order to realize qualified production and establish a knowledge economy.
This is how we will realize the High Capability Building.
We will make the Turkish Design Advisory Council effective and establish the "Design Institute of Turkey".
REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT BELTS
Through public investment and production expansion under the Five Development Belts project, we will create 2 million additional jobs across the country in 5 years.
We will realize an expansion of 72 billion dollars in the trade volume of our priority regions with other provinces of the country.
We will ensure that the Development Belts contribute 1.5 percentage points to growth and are self-financing.
EQUITABLE SHARING
FAMILY PENSION - FAMILY INSURANCE
In addition to the aid already provided, we will provide a monthly family salary of 1000 TL to every household whose SSI premiums are paid by the state (former Green Card holders).
We will deposit the first Family Salary into women's accounts as of September 2018.
Within the scope of Family Insurance, we will also provide 25 TL monthly water support, 50 TL monthly electricity support, 100 TL monthly heating support during the winter months.
We will ensure that the Family Salary is exempt from taxation and cannot be seized or confiscated under any circumstances.
We will employ 45 thousand university graduates as family counselors within the Family Insurance Institution.
We will ensure that every family has a counselor.
We will prepare a poverty inventory with family counselors as soon as possible and deliver social support to the real beneficiaries.
We will deposit the Family Salary provided under Family Insurance into women's accounts.
This will empower women economically.
We will encourage all citizens covered by Family Insurance to attend vocational training courses and register with İş-Kur.
We will start child support under the Family Insurance scheme at conception.
We will increase girls' school enrollment rates by making the continuation of child support conditional on sending girls to school.
We will establish a "Family Insurance Institution" (ASKUR).
TAX JUSTICE
We will implement a tax reform that eliminates income inequality.
We will cancel unfair tax advantages granted to fixed and mobile phone companies and collect the Treasury share in full.
We will abolish taxes on minimum wage.
We will abolish rent withholding tax for tradesmen.
We will tax everyone according to their ability, reduce the share of indirect taxes in tax revenues, and readjust income tax brackets on the basis of income justice.
We will review exemptions in corporate tax and remove unfair tax exemptions and exceptions.
We will collect tax debts of 1 million TL and above that were written off through unfair tax compromises.
We will tax profits smuggled to tax havens.
We will fight against the informal economy and rapidly reduce the rate of informality.
We will collect social security premiums through the revenue administration.
We will offset the debts of the private sector and municipalities to the public sector, especially their debts to the Social Security Institution and their VAT receivables, and we will realize VAT refunds in a short time.
FREE, QUALITY, EQUAL EDUCATION
The most fundamental problem with the understanding of education that leaves our children to uncertainty and lack of quality is that it is not child and teacher-centered.
The AKP's arbitrarily changing education policies have made full-day, free and quality education almost impossible.
The transition to a modern education model, which is necessary for the development of our country, has not been achieved.
AKP governments have created an education system that is not designed according to the cognitive, emotional and physical integrity of children and is insensitive to their future needs.
No policy has been adopted to raise honest, humanistic, hardworking individuals with a developed sense of aesthetics, familiarized with sports culture and sensitive towards the whole society.
Universal principles and national priorities have been replaced by patriotic and political rhetoric.
Students were subjected to an ideological curriculum.
Instead of an understanding of education that promotes a common understanding of the good, the true and the beautiful, a partisan understanding has been adopted.
Moreover, our poor children were not provided with free hot meals and equal educational opportunities.
Diploma-oriented education planning has taken precedence over competency-oriented planning, weakening the link between education and employment.
Quality education, open to competency development, has become a privilege accessible only to a narrow minority.
The proportion of quality and free schools is rapidly decreasing, while the number of schools that do not contribute to the competencies of their students is increasing.
An understanding that would harmonize education, economy and democracy has not been developed.
Resources have been wasted because projects have been approved without any education planning behind them.
Vocational education has not been designed according to the requirements of the 21st century, and the framework that would enable students to specialize in certain skill sets has not been built.
Integration into the world is only possible through the training and employment of a qualified and skilled workforce.
With these features, the government's education system is far from producing such an outcome.
Our ability to compete with the world, transition to the knowledge economy and fulfill the requirements of Industry 4.0 is only possible with an education model that will raise students with high questioning, analytical and social skills.
Likewise, the problems of training and employing teachers with the qualifications required by the age could not be solved.
Tens of thousands of unassigned teachers are unable to work in their areas of specialization.
Partisan rector appointments undermine the autonomy of universities.
The CoHE exerts pressure on university administrations.
Universities, which should lead the way in science and technology, are witnessing a brain drain due to a lack of democracy.
Establishing an education model that will ensure high value-added production and employment in Turkey in the 21st century will only be possible with the establishment of a democratic understanding of education.
A NEW UNDERSTANDING IN EDUCATION
We will realize the principle of free and quality education for all.
We will redesign education to include all components.
We will bring together teachers, unions, students, parents and parents' associations in a participatory and democratic education model.
We will restructure the education system with the 1+8+4 model consisting of 1 year of pre-school, 8 years of primary education and 4 years of secondary education.
We will increase compulsory education to 13 years, 9 of which will be uninterrupted basic education.
We will make high talent building one of the main goals of our education system.
We will establish a "Ministry of Human Resources" to support the policies of the Ministry of National Education and manage lifelong technical skills and learning processes.
We will ensure coordination between education and labor demand through the "Ministry of Human Resources".
We will observe the principle of the best interest of the child in our education system.
We will make the Ministry of National Education transparent and accountable.
We will increase the powers of parent-teacher associations and ensure their participation in school management.
QUALITY INCREASE IN EDUCATION
We will switch to full day education.
We will end the practice of unified classrooms.
We will bring our students to the OECD average in international PISA assessments as soon as possible.
We will create a modern, democratic, secular and scientific curriculum.
EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES IN EDUCATION
We will minimize the quality and quantity gap between schools and regions.
We will reopen closed village schools in areas where there is a need.
We will end the practice of transportation education except in compulsory cases.
We will expand centralized regional secondary boarding schools and high schools with boarding houses in regions with limited access to education.
We will prevent the children of seasonal working families from falling behind in education and training with the Mobile School Model.
MORE SUPPORT FOR EDUCATION
We will provide families receiving Family Salary with 1200 TL per year for each student attending school, to be used for education expenses.
We will ensure that all students use public transportation to and from school free of charge.
We will provide breakfast and lunch free of charge to ensure that students have a balanced and healthy diet.
We will not allow the collection of money from parents under any name whatsoever.
PRINCIPLE OF GENDER EQUALITY
We will ensure gender equality in education.
We will raise the schooling rate of girls to the same level as boys as soon as possible.
We will abolish practices against the mixed education system.
We will take the necessary measures and implement incentives for families who do not send their children to school.
MORE RESOURCES, TRANSPARENT BUDGET
We will increase the budgetary allocation for education to the level of EU countries.
We will increase spending per student for all levels of education.
We will increase the share of the MoNE budget allocated to investment.
We will double the share of public education spending in GDP.
We will move to a model where schools will have their own budgets at all levels of education.
We will ensure that MoNE's tenders, investments and school expenditures can be monitored online.
WELL-EQUIPPED SCHOOLS
We will improve the existing infrastructure of schools in line with full-day education.
We will increase the number of schools and classrooms per student at all levels of education and raise the quality of these schools to EU standards.
We will create cafeterias, canteens, toilets, libraries, science laboratories, art and music workshops, sports halls, playgrounds and green areas in our schools.
We will strengthen the Internet infrastructure and computer equipment of schools.
We will demolish our school buildings that are not earthquake-resistant and need to be renovated as soon as possible and build durable schools.
We will build schools that include the necessary infrastructure arrangements such as elevators, ramps and toilets for all groups in need of special education.
We will bring all children in need of special education to schools.
SAFETY OF OUR STUDENTS
We will include all schools in the Safe School Project against school accidents.
We will insure students against school accidents.
We will ensure security in and around schools and prevent all forms of abuse and violence.
We will appoint at least 1 permanent security and 1 cleaning staff to all schools in line with the need, taking into account the number of students.
Accordingly, we will employ at least 80 thousand personnel.
EDUCATION LEVELS
PRE-SCHOOL EDUCATION
We will make 1 year of pre-school education full-day, free and compulsory.
We will gradually increase schooling rates in early childhood education (0-5 years).
To this end, we will increase the number of early childhood education centers.
We will ensure that pre-school education employs only specialized teachers who meet defined standards.
PRIMARY EDUCATION
We will realize the 100% schooling target for the compulsory education age.
We will raise the age of starting primary education to 72 months.
We will take vocational education out of 9 years of uninterrupted education.
Starting from the last year of uninterrupted basic education, we will ensure that our children are directed to the type of high school they want in line with their interests and abilities through the student orientation system.
We will provide 1 year of foreign language-based education in primary education.
We will refer to the EU framework of basic qualifications for uninterrupted basic education.
SECONDARY EDUCATION
We will organize secondary education in line with academic and vocational education preferences.
We will ensure that students make their academic and vocational education choices together with their families and experts, in line with their own wishes.
We will open a sufficient number of schools in line with parents' and students' demand for school types and send every student to the school of their choice.
In this way, we will relieve students and families from exam stress.
We will provide flexible transition between education choices in the first 2 years of secondary education.
We will end school type segregation in academic secondary education.
We will eliminate inequalities by raising the quality of all schools to EU standards.
Vocational Education, Vocational High Schools, Technology High Schools
We will start vocational education after uninterrupted basic education.
We will target vocational training with job guarantees.
We will open technology high schools.
We will ensure the establishment of these high schools in sectors such as code software, mechatronics, biotechnology, agriculture, etc., which our country prioritizes in terms of development strategies.
In vocational education, we will take harmony and continuity between vocational high schools and vocational colleges as a basis.
We will make the transition from vocational secondary education to vocational higher education completely exam-free.
We will provide full-time insurance coverage for students of technology high schools and vocational schools.
We will pay their premiums from the Treasury.
In line with the demand for workforce in Organized Industrial Zones, we will expand boarding Technology High Schools and Vocational High Schools with job guarantees.
We will ensure that OIZ managers are represented on the boards of directors of Technology High Schools.
In this way, we will strengthen the links between industry and the education system.
We will ensure that graduates of two-year vocational schools will be able to transfer vertically to undergraduate programs in vocational and technical education faculties by examination within the allocated quotas.
We will improve the content, curriculum and quality of the education provided at Imam Hatip Schools.
MODERN AND RATIONAL CURRICULUM
We will create a curriculum that values humanitarian and solidarity values, emphasizes libertarian and critical thinking, and is compatible with the information age.
We will restructure education with a modern, democratic, secular, scientific and equality-based approach in the light of Atatürk's principles and Republican values.
We will ensure that History of the Republic and Culture of Democracy courses are taught as compulsory courses, with the life and struggle of our great leader Mustafa Kemal Atatürk and all the works he brought to our country at the center.
We will end the imposition of elective courses by school administrations and ensure that they are chosen by parents and students only with the support of guidance services.
We will ensure sufficient number of teachers for elective courses.
INSTITUTIONAL AND DEMOCRATIC REFORM IN HIGHER EDUCATION
We will establish a university model based on democratic values, humanism, enlightenment and pluralist principles.
We will abolish the Higher Education Council.
We will establish the "Higher Education "Coordination and Planning Board", which will only carry out planning and coordination tasks and will not interfere with the autonomy of universities.
We will guarantee the scientific, administrative and financial autonomy of universities.
We will establish an independent institution that will carry out accreditation studies of our universities.
We will ensure that university rectors and deans are elected by faculty members.
We will double the share of universities in the budget.
We will make a transparent, accountable and participatory management approach prevail in universities.
We will free TÜBA and TÜBİTAK from political interference and restore their former prestige and functionality.
We will end the practice of dividing universities.
ACADEMIC STAFF
We will allocate more resources to scientific research and R&D studies at universities and encourage researcher academics.
We will provide our education system with qualified academic staff with PhD degrees to meet the needs of higher education and R&D.
We will increase the number and quality of publications by establishing a healthy reward and incentive mechanism.
We will plan the relationship between higher education and employment in a sustainable manner, taking into account the needs of graduates and labor demand.
PERSONAL RIGHTS
We will provide secure jobs and a free working environment for academics.
We will remove doctoral faculty members from the contractual scope and make them permanent staff.
We will end political pressure and discrimination against academic and administrative staff.
We will standardize appointments and promotions at public universities.
We will address existing inequalities.
We will make the necessary arrangements to increase the unionization rate of academics.
We will solve the problems of research assistants within the scope of the Teaching Staff Training Program who are called to their duties at universities before they finish their doctorate.
TEACHERS THE GUARANTEE OF DEVELOPMENT AND DEMOCRACY
We will make teaching one of the most respected professions as it was in the early years of our Republic.
We will enact the Law on Teaching Profession as soon as possible.
We will resolve all issues related to teaching such as teacher training, initial assignment, relocation, promotion, financial and social rights within the scope of this law.
We will end the practice of paid and contracted teaching and ensure that all teachers are appointed with permanent positions.
We will give 180 thousand teachers tenure within one year.
We will implement an appointment and promotion system in education based on merit and objective criteria.
We will make all executive appointments only through written exams.
We will restructure the inspection system and put an end to the favoritist evaluation system.
WORKING CONDITIONS
We will create an evaluation system that is scientific and does not disturb school peace and work peace.
We will end the unlawful prosecution, suspension and exile of teachers and administrators based on their union affiliation.
We will ensure the family integrity of teachers under all circumstances.
ECONOMIC IMPROVEMENTS
On November 24, Teachers' Day, we will give all teachers a salary bonus.
We will give teachers the right to 3600 additional indicators.
We will increase teachers' education compensation, additional course fees and preparation allowances.
We will not allow any teacher to earn a salary below the hunger limit set by TÜİK.
We will make public transportation free for all education workers.
IMPROVING TEACHER QUALITY
We will reopen teacher high schools.
We will equip all teacher training institutions in higher education with the most advanced physical, financial and academic facilities.
We will ensure that all teachers, especially those who teach students with special needs, are adequately equipped pedagogically.
We will harmonize the National Teacher Strategy Document with EU norms in terms of content and methodology.
We will provide teachers, regardless of age, with leave and scholarships for graduate and doctoral studies in Turkey and abroad.
We will prepare in-house training seminars in line with the opinions and demands of educators.
TRANSITION TO LIFELONG EDUCATION SYSTEM
We will establish "Urban Institutes" and "Lifelong Learning Schools" for adults to acquire new knowledge and skills.
We will increase the Internet, technology and media literacy of participants in City Institutes and Lifelong Education Schools.
We will offer them artistic, cultural and social opportunities in their free time.
We will employ some of the unassigned teachers in different branches in City Institutes and Lifelong Education Schools.
We will ensure that vocational schools offer diploma and short-term certificate programs and vocational courses for adults.
SOCIAL PEACE, THE KURDISH QUESTION
The one-man regime has destroyed social peace and trust in Turkey in order to preserve its power at all costs.
The authoritarian regime established by the AKP has used ethnic, religious, sectarian and cultural affiliations to pit citizens against each other, deepening prejudices and polarizing society.
The reduction of the Kurdish Question to a security problem and the wrong practices during periods of emergency have victimized a significant portion of our citizens and weakened their sense of belonging.
The long years of violence and conflict have led some in our society to fear that the country will be divided.
Therefore, on the one hand, it is important to ensure that the environment of violence that adversely affects fundamental rights and freedoms
On the other hand, it is necessary to eliminate the sense of insecurity that prevails among our citizens.
A broad social consensus is needed to strengthen the bonds of trust and brotherhood among our citizens.
What is needed for a solution is not an approach that focuses solely on security, economic development, human rights or equal citizenship, but a new understanding of democracy that encompasses all of these.
The Republican People's Party believes that social peace in Turkey must be achieved on the basis of citizenship and brotherhood without polarization.
The Kurdish Question, one of the most important problems in the history of the Republic, is fundamentally a matter of lack of democracy.
What is essential for a lasting solution is more freedom,
democracy and the rule of law.
Only in this way can the rights of our citizens be protected and
the welfare of the population improved.
The CHP will realize the solution of the Kurdish Question through a Social Reconciliation Commission to be established within the Grand National Assembly of Turkey.
It will address the problem in all its dimensions with a Common Mind Panel to be established by creating a broad platform of representation from within and outside the Parliament, and will create the intellectual and psychological infrastructure for social peace.
The CHP will adopt a sincere and honest approach to solving the problem, without any hidden agenda.
It will not make any commitments that cannot later be held accountable to our people, and will inform the public, especially the opposition parties, of all steps taken.
A lasting and final peaceful resolution of the Kurdish Question is only possible by creating a climate of trust, solidarity and brotherhood that will unite all citizens of the Republic of Turkey.
CHP will fight against understandings that suspect, stigmatize and exclude citizens, and will work tirelessly for a common future.
CHP will end the politics of polarization and polarization and embrace all citizens without discrimination.
NON-POLARIZING, RECONCILING POLITICS
At every stage of state administration, we will be based on the common denominator of citizenship of the Republic of Turkey.
We will never allow discrimination based on culture, belief, language, identity, political opinion, gender, sexual orientation and lifestyle.
We will eliminate the politics of polarization and polarization that harm social peace and the culture of coexistence.
We will prevent the language of stigmatization and condemnation used by politicians at rallies and in the media against beliefs and identities under the Political Ethics Law.
We will protect our citizens against all forms of hate crimes.
We will make the necessary legal arrangements in this regard.
We will not abandon Roma to exclusion, poverty, homelessness, lack of education and unhealthy living conditions.
We will provide our Roma citizens with the conditions they deserve.
We will ensure that security investigations, which have become a pretext for discrimination in recruitment and put citizens under suspicion, are transparent, justified and open to scrutiny.
We will end the culture of fear, suspicion and denunciation imposed on our citizens.
We will adopt a style of governance and politics that will increase mutual trust, communication and understanding among our citizens.
We will immediately put an end to the trustee practice.
We will leave local governments in the hands of the elected, not the appointed.
LIBERAL LAICISM THAT RESPECTS BELIEFS
We will implement the principle of secularism, which is the most fundamental guarantee of freedom of belief and worship, with a libertarian understanding.
We will guarantee the freedom of belief and worship of all our citizens regardless of religion, sect and belief.
We will ensure that religion and politics are kept separate and we will not allow religion to be used as a tool for politics.
We will restructure the Presidency of Religious Affairs and transform it into an institution that complies with the principle of secularism and serves all faiths equally.
We will remove the obstacles preventing all citizens of whatever faith from opening their own places of worship within the framework of universal human rights.
We will ensure that cemevis are granted the status of places of worship.
We will take constructive steps to solve the problems faced by minority foundations within the framework of the rights arising from the Treaty of Lausanne.
We will find solutions to overcome the financial problems faced by minority schools.
SOLUTION TO THE CURD PROBLEM ON THE BASIS OF EQUAL CITIZENSHIP
We will solve the Kurdish Question with courage and determination on the basis of the principle of equal citizenship and dialogue, without surrendering to a purely security approach.
We will solve the Kurdish Question with the participation of all political parties in the Turkish Grand National Assembly, without sacrificing it to partisan interests, in a sincere and transparent manner, and with social consensus.
We will realize a regional development breakthrough that will create large-scale employment and increase social welfare in Eastern and Southeastern Anatolia.
Within 5 years, we will establish 135 new factories in the East and Southeast.
In order to ensure that public services are provided to all our citizens on the basis of equal citizenship, we will implement an understanding that will take into account our citizens whose mother tongue is not Turkish.
We will solve the infrastructure problems related to Kurdish language courses in our schools and diversify optional courses.
In addition to Kurdish, we will expand research institutes for all sister languages in Turkey.
We will reopen all closed institutes by allocating staff.
We will bring the autonomy of local governments up to EU standards.
We will implement the European Charter of Local Self-Government adopted by the Turkish Grand National Assembly on 8.5.1991.
END PROHIBITIONIST POLICIES
We will abolish bans and penalties that restrict or eliminate freedom of expression and reform the Turkish Penal Code and the Anti-Terror Law in a democratic and libertarian manner.
We will establish the necessary legal and institutional infrastructure for all citizens to enjoy the right to learn the mother tongue.
We will ensure that mined lands are cleared as soon as possible, and we will distribute these lands to landless villagers and bring them into agriculture.
We will gradually abolish the village guard system and create new employment opportunities for village guards.
We will restore the original names of places and regions.
CLIMATE OF TRUST AND PEACE
We will establish a Parliamentary Investigation Commission to reveal the full extent of past rights violations and social traumas that have inflicted heavy wounds on the public conscience.
We will ensure that grievances are addressed and damages are compensated.
We will abolish the statute of limitations for unsolved murders and disappearances.
We will ensure that those responsible for these crimes are uncovered and punished.
We will abolish the statute of limitations for all crimes that violate human rights and whose perpetrators are public officials.
We will gather all state archives related to the Dersim Events and open them to researchers.
We will declare March 21 Nevroz Day as an official holiday as the Day of Brotherhood and Peace.
We will transform Diyarbakır Prison into a Museum of Human Rights and Democracy.
We will take the necessary steps to ensure the return of our citizens who were subjected to forced displacement and had to leave their homes and to compensate them for their damages.
FOREIGN POLICY: STABILITY AND REPUTATION
The AKP government is engaged in a practice that results in a significant deviation in Turkey's foreign policy.
Turkey's reputation as a regional actor in the eyes of its neighbors and as a strong and constructive partner capable of finding solutions to problems in the eyes of its allies is gone.
Turkey has lost its impartiality, credibility and reliability in its foreign policy practices and has lost its characteristic of being a predictable international actor.
Foreign policy is a policy area based on trust.
The loss of trust also has a negative impact on Turkey's international image.
Today, international relations have become so complex and intricate that it is insufficient to rely solely on foreign policy instruments and practices to create perceptions about a country.
The way to manage perceptions and positively influence and guide international public opinion is to strengthen strategic communication and to focus on public diplomacy activities.
The Republican People's Party's foreign policy approach constitutes a strong integrity of public diplomacy activities that, on the one hand, ensure that the necessary steps are taken for Turkey to become a reliable and cooperative partner in foreign policy practices, and on the other hand, that the image and reputation of our country, which has been lost, is transformed into a positive one.
In this sense, Turkey's foreign policy will be developed based on four pillars: Justice for our citizens,
security,
a foreign policy that is committed to peace and prosperity,
A foreign policy that respects international law and is based on values, A foreign policy based on pluralism, armed with the richness of historical accumulation, geographical location and cultural diversity, A participatory foreign policy that integrates with the whole world and strengthens regional and global cooperation.
For this, it is essential for Turkey to develop a reliable and predictable neighborhood policy in the Balkans, the Black Sea, the Caucasus, the Middle East and the Eastern Mediterranean.
We will develop this neighborhood policy inspired by the thousands of years of cultural accumulation and richness of the lands on which Turkey is located.
Based on this understanding, we will oppose the ethnic, national, religious and sectarian discrimination of all peoples living in our region.
The peace, tranquility and stability of our region must be based on unity, not divisiveness.
Iraq
and the territorial integrity of Syria,
A just solution to the Palestinian conflict and the restoration of diplomatic relations with Egypt are our main goals.
The peaceful and constructive relations Turkey will develop in its region will prevent a rift with the Western world, and Turkey will once again become a strong focal point of the alliance of civilizations between its geography and the Western world.
In this way, NATO, in which Turkey is involved, or is negotiating to be involved, with its Western allies,
OSCE,
Relations with organizations and institutions such as the Council of Europe and the European Union will also normalize again.
The most important pillar of public diplomacy is our citizens living abroad.
The CHP's basic approach is that they are honorary representatives of Turkey and assume an important presence and duty in the country they are in.
In this context, a number of measures are needed to strengthen their position.
We will deepen social and cultural relations between Turkey and countries from every continent, and enable our citizens living and working in each country to build strong bridges between their country and Turkey.
Turkey's foreign policy will be transformed into a modern and farsighted approach, so that Turkey will become an actor whose views are needed and consulted not only in the region but also in the search for solutions to global problems.
It will regain its rightful place among the countries that are candidates to assume the role of facilitator and mediator in solving problems.
EUROPE
We will make the necessary reforms of our own volition, without waiting for the EU to open new chapters.
We will repair deteriorating relations with the EU and weaken the membership perspective.
We will re-establish our goal of full membership strongly and decisively in the light of social democratic principles.
In our relations with the EU, we will pursue effective negotiations on overdue visa liberalization, agricultural support and scientific cooperation to improve the welfare of our people.
We will correct Customs Union practices that do not serve the interests of our producers and workers.
We will not make compromises in our relations with the EU that jeopardize our national interests.
We will put an end to the use of Syrians who have migrated to our country as a trump card in relations with Europe with an understanding that disregards human rights.
We will try to increase solidarity with social democratic parties in Europe in a way that serves our full membership perspective.
We will eliminate the prejudices against Turkey in Europe.
We will not give up on the EU's recognition of the legitimate demands of the Turkish Cypriot people.
USA
We will conduct our relations with the US within the framework of reciprocity and trust.
We will establish new partnerships with the US that are not limited to strategic and military relations, but are open to economic, scientific and cultural interaction.
We will cooperate permanently based on common values and interests, not on cyclical, regional and international developments.
RUSSIAN FEDERATION
We will develop economic and trade relations with the Russian Federation in a way that is not one-sided and not based on self-interest.
We will support the initiatives of Turkish businesspeople in Russia and the Eurasian Economic Union and establish the necessary mechanisms to solve their problems.
We will build transparent and sustainable relations with Russia on energy trade and security.
We will pursue non-periodic, consistent and peaceful policies to resolve tensions between Ukraine and Russia.
We will insist on the protection of Tatar rights in Crimea.
INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS
In the UN, OSCE, Council of Europe, NATO and other regional and international organizations of which Turkey is a member, we will effectively raise national and regional issues, while resolutely defending our priorities.
We will require NATO members to fulfill their responsibilities fully and in a timely manner
and ensure that the alliance acts in concert with the UN Security Council.
We will fight effectively to prevent the spread of nuclear and chemical weapons in our region and around the world.
Countering radicalism,
defense of women's and children's rights,
global poverty,
We will support international initiatives on issues such as environmental problems from a social democratic perspective.
GREECE
We will see the Aegean Sea not as a divisive barrier between the two peoples, but as an opportunity to increase friendship and unite them.
We will try to resolve the problems in the Aegean Sea through bilateral talks, based on the principle of equity.
We will work with determination to protect the rights and interests of the Turkish population living in Western Thrace arising from all international treaties and conventions.
We will pursue result-oriented negotiations with Greece in this direction.
CYPRUS PROBLEM
In order to find a just and lasting solution to the Cyprus problem, we will pursue the objectives of protecting the acquired rights of the TRNC and Turkish Cypriots and ensuring the political equality of the two communities.
We will increase Turkey's power in the Eastern Mediterranean and ensure the fair distribution of energy resources in the Eastern Mediterranean.
We will continue to support Turkish Cypriots against economic sanctions and international embargoes.
We will not allow interference in the internal affairs of the TRNC.
We will communicate with the constitutional institutions of the TRNC within the framework of mutual respect and equality.
BALKAN COUNTRIES
We will promote friendship and good neighborly relations with all countries in the Balkans, aiming at democracy, cultural pluralism and economic prosperity at the same time.
We will not give priority to the patriotic discourses and approaches that serve religious and ethnic radicalism in the view of Balkan history.
We will work to ensure that the related communities living in the Balkans can live as equal citizens in their countries of origin.
CAUCASIAN COUNTRIES
We will work to make Turkey a transit corridor for the transfer of energy resources of Russia, the Caucasus and the Caspian basin to the West.
We will further strengthen our fraternal ties with Azerbaijan on the basis of mutual trust, including both communities.
We will work for a negotiated settlement of the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict within the framework of Azerbaijan's territorial integrity.
We will endeavor to solve the problems between Turkey and Armenia.
CENTRAL ASIAN REPUBLICS
We will establish institutional mechanisms to multilateralize relations with Central Asian Republics, especially in language training, technical cooperation and joint research projects.
By facilitating visa and work permits with all countries in the region, we will find solutions to reduce communication and transportation costs between countries.
We will take sustainable steps to transform relationships limited to governments and business into relationships between communities, professional groups, civil society organizations and youth.
MIDDLE EAST AND EASTERN MEDITERRANEAN
Based on a region-centered foreign policy approach, we will establish the "Organization for Peace and Cooperation in the Middle East" (OBIT), whose founding members will be Iran, Iraq, Syria and Turkey.
We will adopt a foreign policy approach that is free of adventurism, arrogance, opportunism, sectarianism and hamasacism by abandoning the wrong policies in the Middle East, which have proven to be a failure after the Arab Spring.
Turkey to secularism,
equality between men and women,
social rights
and the rule of law,
We will make it a developed regional power that will serve as a model for the countries of the Middle East.
We will respect the independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity of the countries in the region.
Against fundamentalist, sectarian and dogmatic political movements in the region, we will make a republican, secular and peaceful policy, blended with social democratic values, dominant.
We will resolutely fight against all terrorist organizations in the region.
In the fight against terrorism, we will abide by the relevant UN Security Council resolutions.
ENDING THE WAR IN SYRIA
We will support all international peace initiatives and the work of the UN Special Envoy for Syria to ensure the well-being of the friendly Syrian people and the territorial integrity of Syria.
After stabilizing Syria and disarming non-state actors, we will support a political solution that the Syrian people can decide for themselves.
After a peaceful settlement in Syria, we will ensure the safe return of Syrians under temporary protection in our country, in stages, without victimizing those who wish to do so.
We will take a firm stand against terrorism in Syria.
We will eliminate the security threats posed by terrorist organizations to our country and clear the terrorist elements nesting in our territories.
We will ensure that aid to Syrians under temporary protection is transparent and auditable.
We will ensure that aid is audited by the Turkish legal system and independent organizations.
We will prevent Syrians, especially children, from working in unregistered and unacceptable conditions.
We will ensure that the Turkish Armed Forces' mission in Syria is successfully concluded as soon as possible, supported by the necessary diplomatic steps.
ISRAEL AND THE PHILISTINE CONFLICT
We will support initiatives to find a solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict based on two states.
In our foreign policy approach, we will ensure that the Palestinian question is addressed in a manner that respects human rights without drifting into Islamic radicalism and anti-Semitism.
We will lift visas for Palestinians.
We will cancel the Mavi Marmara Agreement.
IRAQ
We will take effective initiatives in the region and in the international arena to protect the territorial integrity of Iraq within the borders outlined by the Iraqi Constitution.
We will establish equal and good relations with all the constituent elements of Iraq.
We will contribute to the fair resolution of Turkmen problems.
We will try to maximize our energy cooperation with Iraq, including the diversification of our resources.
We will take initiatives to prevent any threat to Turkey from Iraqi territory.
IRAN
We will maintain and multilaterally develop our long-standing and good relations with our neighbor Iran.
We will support efforts to maintain the agreement on Iran's nuclear program.
We will reconsider the energy agreements with Iran in the interests of our citizens.
EGYPT
We will rebuild our deteriorating economic, cultural and political relations with Egypt on the basis of trust, friendship and solidarity.
We will work in cooperation with Egypt to resolve the problems in the region.
FAR EAST
We will develop economic and trade relations with China, Japan, India and Indonesia, the dynamic economies of the Far East.
We will establish cooperation with countries in the region in the fields of tourism, science, academia and technology to diversify the investments of our entrepreneurs in China and the Far East.
OUR PEOPLE ABROAD
SOLUTIONS TO EDUCATION PROBLEMS
We will appoint education attachés and teachers for the areas in need.
We will prioritize instructors of Turkish origin living in Europe for appointments.
We will make the necessary arrangements to ensure that our young people who want to continue their education abroad in Turkey do not lose any years.
We will take the necessary steps to ensure the university equivalence of our young people who receive diplomas abroad.
DIPLOMATIC INITIATIVES
We will take all necessary diplomatic initiatives to win the right to dual citizenship.
Through diplomatic initiatives, we will increase the security of life and property of people of Turkish origin.
FAIR REPRESENTATION ABROAD
We will create overseas constituencies in order to bring the problems of our citizens abroad to the Grand National Assembly of Turkey more effectively.
We will ensure that our citizens abroad are represented in the TBMM with 10 deputies, one deputy for every 300,000 voters.
We will ensure that the Presidency for Turks Abroad and Related Communities is at an equal distance to all associations and organizations and that the support provided by the Presidency is distributed fairly.
SERVICES ABROAD
We will ensure that young people who have been trained abroad are assigned to work in our missions abroad.
We will improve consular services and cut transaction fees by half.
We will make legal arrangements for these transactions to be carried out over the Internet as much as possible.
We will eliminate bureaucratic obstacles in transactions such as divorce, inheritance, notarial power of attorney, burial and autopsy.
We will ensure that social security services are provided at consulates general wherever possible.
We will remove the obligation to go to Turkey for these transactions.
We will provide free consultancy services on legal processes in Turkey in foreign representative offices.
SERVICES IN TURKEY
We will take the necessary diplomatic initiatives and complete the necessary infrastructure works to solve the problems faced by our citizens who come to Turkey with their vehicles during the holiday season.
We will increase the period of stay in Turkey for vehicles brought by retirees from abroad from 2 years to 5 years.
We will allow our pensioners' salaries to be deposited in foreign branches of public banks.
We will eliminate the problems at customs gates through institutional measures.
We will eliminate the problems experienced by blue card holders in Turkey in areas such as banking and telecommunications.
We will increase the period of use of phones purchased abroad in Turkey from 4 months to 1 year.
MILITARY
We will ensure that Turkey accepts the report of inability to perform military service issued abroad.
We will allow our citizens living abroad to complete their military service by serving in promotional programs.
PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION AND SERVICES
In modern societies, the primary duty of the state is to implement policies and services that improve the quality of life of citizens.
Public services are the most powerful tool for citizens to become better equipped, healthier and safer individuals.
One of the main conditions for the public sector to provide these services in the best way possible is to adapt to the requirements of the age.
The Republican People's Party believes that public services should be subjected to continuous reform in order to meet new needs and take advantage of new opportunities.
Today, we are faced with two fundamental situations that make it imperative to implement a comprehensive public sector reform as soon as possible.
First, the increasingly authoritarian one-man regime of the last fifteen years has distorted public order.
Our goal is to repair this destruction and re-establish a modern, just and rights-based public order.
Second, the massive transformation caused by the information revolution requires us to transform the way public services are delivered and the entire organization of the public sector.
SHADOW OF THE PARTY-STATE
In the past fifteen years, Turkey has witnessed the integration of party and state.
The fact that the President is also the head of a party has brought this process to a final point.
The reality of a party state can no longer be ignored when talking about public administration in Turkey.
Almost all public institutions function as branches of a political party.
Bureaucrats became accountable to the Party instead of the state hierarchy and the law.
The government segregates citizens into its own supporters and others, and delivers its services in disregard of the opposition.
A significant part of our citizens are completely excluded from the distribution of public resources.
Even those close to the government, favored and privileged groups provide public services as if they were a blessing.
Under AKP rule, with an arbitrary, unprincipled and unfair understanding of public administration, the decisive principle in decision-making mechanisms has become to protect the interests of one man and his narrow circle.
The harmony between public institutions and bureaucrats has deteriorated and a partisan competition has emerged.
After fifteen years of staffing, unqualified and incompetent people have become widespread in the public sector.
The Party's takeover of the state has plunged it into a spiral of corruption and lawlessness.
This rotten order is as shortsighted, ineffective and inefficient as it is discriminatory.
As a result of the destruction wrought by the AKP, citizens' trust in the state has almost completely disappeared.
In the CHP government, we will establish a public order that serves all citizens, prioritizes needs, produces solutions to problems and responds to the expectations of society.
We will provide public services in a fair and equitable manner.
We will not distinguish one citizen from another.
We will set our priorities in line with objective and universal principles, not political interests.
We will adopt a transparent management approach that is open to public scrutiny and accountable to the public.
We will restore cooperation and trust between state institutions.
We will base the recruitment and promotion of public personnel on merit.
We will improve the working conditions of all public employees and ensure that the most qualified segments of our society are employed in the public sector.
We will clearly define the job descriptions and responsibilities of public employees and ensure that they act within legal limits.
With all these arrangements, we will maximize competence, efficiency and effectiveness in public administration and ensure that citizens have confidence in the state.
A PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION ORDER IN THE LIGHT OF THE INFORMATION REVOLUTION
Information and communication technologies have increased the speed of acquiring, processing, storing and disseminating information, while at the same time significantly reducing the costs of all these processes.
The information revolution is leading to a major transformation in our economic, social and cultural life as well as in public administration.
Emerging technologies have the potential to transform the way public policies and programs are formulated and public services are delivered.
Thanks to technological developments such as smartphones, the Internet and blockchain, it is now possible for citizens to be informed about public decisions and practices, to participate, and to fulfill their obligations towards the public at almost zero cost, instantly and remotely.
As CHP, we will immediately implement a radical public administration reform program in line with these new opportunities.
We will ensure integration and coordination between institutions and organizations at all levels of the public sector.
We will rid the bureaucracy of rigid hierarchy and excessive centralization.
At the local level, we will deliver services at the closest point to the citizen through the smallest possible units.
We will adopt a citizen-centered approach in the relationship between the state and citizens.
Instead of a commanding and forbidding administration, we will establish a system of governance based on broad participation and representation, and involving the entire population in decision-making processes.
We will implement direct democracy wherever possible, utilizing all the opportunities provided by technology.
We will save the state from its cumbersome structure with the modern practices we will develop.
We will make effective use of e-government tools and ensure that our citizens have fast, low-cost and easy access to public services.
PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION REFORM
BALANCED AND FUNCTIONAL AUTHORITY SHARING
We will reorganize the division of authority and responsibility between central and local governments on the basis of decentralization.
We will ensure that decisions on public administration are taken at the level of government closest to the citizens who benefit from public services.
We will ensure the administrative and financial autonomy of public local units.
We will refer to OECD and European countries in the use of powers and resources by local governments.
We will transfer the provincial organizations of some ministries to municipalities or special provincial administrations according to their areas of responsibility.
We will prevent overlapping duties between the central and provincial organizations of public administrations and institutions.
We will increase the powers of the provincial organizations of ministries and allow for practical decisions to be taken at the local level.
We will make legal arrangements to prevent central government interference in the decisions of local assemblies.
TRANSPARENCY AND ACCOUNTABILITY
We will reorganize the Law on Access to Information to increase transparency.
We will reorganize the Public Procurement Law on the basis of EU standards.
We will make public procurement and all tender processes, especially privatizations, transparent and ensure online monitoring.
We will narrow the concept of trade secrets in the functioning of the public sector.
We will make it compulsory for public administrators to make their up-to-date declarations of assets public.
We will clearly define the powers of all public officials.
We will hold public officials accountable in accordance with the principle of accountability in their defined areas of authority.
Accordingly, we will lift the immunity of public servants.
We will ensure a high level of representation of civil society representatives in the access to information and ethics committees.
ANTI-CORRUPTION AND AUSTERITY
We will develop an anti-corruption strategy that will involve the whole society.
We will speed up judicial processes, increase penalties and abolish the statute of limitations in bribery and corruption crimes.
We will put an end to all unnecessary spending in the name of reputation.
We will put an end to all the luxurious life provided to politicians and public officials with the Presidential Palace, airplanes, helicopters and executive vehicles, magnificent public institution buildings, etc.
We will put an end to political pressure on public banks and the use of their resources in a favoritist manner.
INDEPENDENT JUDICIARY, AUTONOMOUS AUDIT
We will ensure judicial independence and eliminate all exceptions that allow the executive and bureaucracy to escape judicial oversight.
We will restore the lost autonomy of all supreme boards.
We will prevent the political power from exerting pressure on these boards.
We will make the Prime Ministry's Public Ethics Board and all public ethics commissions operational.
We will ensure that these units carry out advisory, training and supervisory functions together.
We will ensure that the Ombudsman's Office is fully autonomous and increase its sanctioning authority.
We will bring efficiency to the functioning of the Competition Authority.
We will prevent abuse of dominant position in the markets.
We will increase the powers of the CMB and we will definitely not allow manipulation in capital markets.
MERIT AND COMPETENCE IN THE PUBLIC SECTOR
We will refer to objective criteria and basic competencies established in line with the job description in the appointment of public personnel.
We will put ethical values and merit at the center of recruitment processes.
We will never allow political staffing and favoritism in public institutions.
We will end all forms of discrimination and subjective preferences in appointments and promotions.
We will abolish the practice of exceptional civil servants.
We will appoint all public officials, except senior executives, through a centralized examination.
With the legal regulation we will make, we will ensure that regular exams are held for promotion and title change.
We will ensure that exams are conducted in an independent, fair, objective and transparent manner.
We will fulfill all requests for spousal appointments as soon as possible, taking into account the principle of protecting family unity.
We will make it a prerequisite to pass a written exam for all managerial positions, and we will make it a prerequisite to have a managerial education for appointments to senior public positions.
SECURE, PROSPEROUS AND RESPONSIBLE PUBLIC EMPLOYEES
We will simplify Law No. 657 on Civil Servants and make it suitable for today's conditions.
In line with the principle of governance, we will make effective a personnel management approach in which the state trusts its employees, gives them autonomy and includes them in decision-making mechanisms.
We will ensure that public services are provided by full-time, job-secure, permanent workers and civil servants.
We will remove all obstacles to the trade union rights and freedoms of public servants, except for the exceptions in the European Social Charter.
We will prevent exiles under the name of compulsory rotation and eliminate the victimizations caused by past practices.
We will issue a record amnesty that will cover all public employees.
Wage Policy
We will pave the way for wages to be determined through collective agreements at workplace and national level.
We will eliminate wage inequalities and additional payment differences among public employees.
We will take into account all additional payments made to public servants in determining pensions and bonuses.
STRONG LOCAL GOVERNMENTS
We will restructure Turkey's administrative structure to make local governments stronger and more autonomous.
We will allocate more resources to local governments in this direction.
We will remove the reservations in the European Charter of Local Self-Government.
We will give all planning powers other than national spatial planning to local governments.
METROPOLITAN MUNICIPALITIES
We will balance the division of authority between metropolitan municipalities and district municipalities.
In provinces with metropolitan status, we will restore legal personality to villages.
In provinces that are not metropolitan cities, we will establish municipal service unions at provincial level.
MORE RESOURCES FOR LOCAL GOVERNMENTS
In the new metropolitan municipalities, we will cover the debt burden from the districts and municipalities from the Treasury.
Among the lands transferred to the Treasury with the metropolitan law, those that will not be returned to village legal entities will be given to metropolitan municipalities.
We will restructure the Bank of Provinces to meet the financial and technical needs of local governments.
We will ensure the participation of local governments in decision-making processes in the allocation of local natural resources, mines and sand quarries.
We will improve municipal revenues in tourism regions with resources from the central government budget, taking into account the summer population.
TRANSPARENT GOVERNANCE
We will make it compulsory for municipalities to share all service processes with citizens via the Internet.
We will ensure that the wealth declarations of mayors and municipal administrators are announced annually.
We will make it mandatory to broadcast important meetings involving decision-making processes related to the city live via the Internet.
PARTICIPATORY LOCAL GOVERNMENTS
We will allow professional chambers to have a say in urban planning.
We will create a new participation mechanism with the Neighborhood Councils we will establish within the Mukhtars' Offices.
We will make city councils functional.
We will make it compulsory for projects to be implemented by municipalities to be discussed in city and neighborhood councils, depending on their scale.
We will implement a 33% women and 20% youth quota in elected decision-making bodies in local governments.
MUHTARS ARE THE FOUNDATION OF LOCAL DEMOCRACY
We will give neighborhood mukhtars the status of a local government unit as defined in the Constitution.
In this direction, we will allocate budgets to mukhtars and enable them to carry out social projects together with municipalities.
We will gather the authorities and responsibilities of mukhtars under a single law.
We will establish the "Union of Mukhtars of Turkey".
We will introduce the principle of unified ballot in mukhtar elections.
We will create the necessary infrastructure for mukhtars to serve according to the requirements of the age, and improve their personal rights and working conditions.
We will provide service building and personnel support to mukhtars' offices through the Municipality and Special Provincial Administrations.
We will allow mukhtars to attend municipal council or provincial general assembly meetings on issues concerning their neighborhoods.
We will ensure that they have voting rights on relevant issues.
HEALTH
EQUAL ACCESS TO HEALTH
Rights-based and Free Health Care
We will adopt the principle of free health care.
We will abolish co-payments, additional fees, etc. in health services.
We will remove premium payment as a prerequisite for receiving health services.
We will cover the GHI premiums of all our citizens covered by Family Insurance from the Treasury.
We will erase all of the GSS debts of these citizens.
We will gradually increase the number of health personnel per capita to the level of EU countries.
We will eliminate inter-regional inequalities in the distribution of physicians and health personnel.
We will make hospital and doctor's appointment phones and public transportation services used to access health facilities free of charge.
We will reintroduce the gradual referral system and ensure that citizens can go to the health institution and physician of their choice within the referral chain.
Women and Children
We will ensure continuity in health screenings for women and children.
We will provide the vitamins every mother needs for free.
We will rapidly reduce maternal, infant and child mortality rates and eliminate regional disparities.
We will raise maternity and newborn care services to the level of EU countries.
We will ensure that all births take place everywhere, free of charge and with the help of health personnel.
We will abolish all difference fees for births.
We will remove barriers to access to family planning and provide these services free of charge to everyone who wants them.
Disabled people
We will ensure that people with disabilities can come to hospitals by appointment with shuttle buses.
We will create a disabled reception unit in all hospitals and provide interpreters for the hearing impaired.
We will provide physical therapy at home for the disabled.
Prisoners and Detainees
We will bring detainee and convict health services up to international standards.
We will ensure that there are enough doctors and health personnel in prisons 24 hours a day.
We will remove bureaucratic obstacles to the referral of detainees and convicts to health institutions.
We will prevent delays in health status reports.
People with Special Needs
We will establish patient care centers for patients in need of care, integrated with Family Centers.
We will provide health and care services to cancer, dementia, Alzheimer's and bedridden patients in patient care centers.
We will improve addiction treatment and rehabilitation centers.
We will make all services offered in these centers free of charge.
We will establish special, easily accessible follow-up-treatment-training centers for hypertension, celiac and diabetes patients.
We will expand awareness-raising, prevention, diet and treatment programs to combat obesity.
PUBLIC HEALTH AND PREVENTIVE HEALTH SERVICES
We will conduct regular health checks and early diagnosis tests according to age groups at the closest point to where our citizens live.
We will ensure that all households have healthy and potable water from their taps.
We will increase the realization rate of free periodic vaccination to 100%.
We will fight against infectious and epidemic diseases with reference to EU norms.
We will prevent the application of treatment methods that are not scientifically proven to be beneficial and that negatively affect public health.
We will encourage organ donation and expand organ banks.
PRIMARY HEALTH CARE SERVICES
Family Health Centers
We will provide primary health care services through Family Health Centers with improved facilities.
At Family Health Centers, we will provide personalized preventive health services and effective diagnosis and treatment opportunities.
We will ensure that dentists, laboratory specialists and other specialists also work in large-scale Family Health Centers.
Family Physicians
We will reappoint family doctors as civil servants.
We will remove the obstacles preventing family physicians from participating in training programs and ensure that all family physicians are specialized.
We will halve the number of citizens per family doctor within five years.
We will increase the number of health personnel that family physicians will work with to an adequate level.
We will ensure that the primary duties of family physicians are vaccination, pregnancy follow-up, infant follow-up, follow-up of chronic diseases and patient examination.
SECOND STEP
We will open one Public Medical Center for every 100,000 people.
In the Public Medical Centers, where laboratories and imaging units will also be available, we will provide 24/7, qualified healthcare services with specialist physicians, family physicians and dentists.
We will not close hospitals in urban centers, we will improve their infrastructure and human resources.
With proper planning, we will ensure that doctors spend at least 15 minutes with each patient.
We will meet the infrastructure and personnel needs of intensive care units in all hospitals.
We will improve the quality of medical equipment and supplies used in diagnosis and treatment services.
Emergency Health Services
We will put an end to crowding in emergency services by abolishing co-payments from health services.
We will abolish the green area practice and make emergency services free of charge.
We will ensure that emergency medicine specialists work in emergency services.
By increasing the number of ambulances and stations, we will reach patients as soon as possible.
Oral and Dental Health Services
We will prioritize preventive health services in oral and dental health, and in this direction, we will carry out regular oral and dental health screenings for children in schools.
We will expand Oral and Dental Health Centers and make them fully equipped.
We will ensure that all types of dental prosthesis are made in Oral and Dental Health Centers.
We will ensure that the materials and service are of the required quality.
We will make arrangements for the procurement of diagnostic and treatment services from self-employed dentists in the field of oral and dental health.
In this area, we will reduce health expenditures of our citizens.
TERTIARY CARE RESEARCH AND EDUCATION
We will make all medical faculties capable of providing high-level health services and training the number of qualified personnel needed by our health system.
We will meet the needs of medical faculties in terms of faculty, personnel, resources and equipment.
We will ensure that all nurses and midwives are four-year university graduates and work in their own fields.
We will give positions to health personnel in accordance with their education.
We will transform the already built city hospitals into university hospitals.
For chronic diseases that require long-term treatment, we will provide health services in these hospitals.
RIGHTS OF PATIENTS AND THEIR RELATIVES
We will bring medical law up to contemporary norms and standards.
We will remove bureaucratic obstacles for citizens to seek their legal rights on health.
We will ensure that patients' needs and satisfaction are regularly measured by independent organizations and that these indicators are shared with the public.
We will protect and legally secure personal health data.
HEALTH WORKERS
We will reorganize the quantitative performance system to include quality indicators.
We will ensure that all health workers receive a fair basic wage.
We will grant health and social service workers the right to actual service time increase.
We will double their additional payments and reflect them in their salaries and pensions.
We will give 3600 additional indicators to nurses.
We will cover the fees in all public health institutions, especially in training and research hospitals, from the general budget.
We will implement the regulation on the depreciation share in health as soon as possible and in line with the demands of health workers.
We will bring the pensions of health workers to the level of the pensions of high-level civil servants.
We will rapidly close the personnel shortage in the field of health.
We will bring the number of health personnel closer to the OECD average.
We will protect the economic, social and union rights of all health workers and ensure that they work with security.
We will improve the wages and social rights of physicians and health personnel working in deprived areas.
We will prevent violence against health personnel through legal regulations.
We will ensure the security of pharmacies on duty.
HEALTH INFRASTRUCTURE
We will build new and modern state hospitals in a planned manner, by the state.
We will establish fully equipped specialized health centers and branch hospitals in each region according to population density and need.
We will upgrade all patient beds to first class patient beds.
HEALTH INDUSTRY
National Pharmaceutical Policy
We will eliminate the grievances arising from the generic drug application.
We will remove all barriers to access to medicines, especially cancer drugs.
We will import uncommon medicines from a single source and deliver them to those in need.
We will promote the local pharmaceutical industry.
We will gradually reduce foreign dependence on medicines and vaccines.
R&D Investments and Supports
We will ensure that information technologies such as medical information systems and device software are produced in Turkey.
We will establish an effective system of medical technoparks by supporting cooperation between universities, industry and the state.
We will provide incentives for the production of medical high-tech products.
SAFETY
A DEMOCRATIC UNDERSTANDING OF SECURITY
We will adopt a security approach based on individual rights and freedoms, social peace and human rights.
We will establish democracy, peace and tranquility on the basis of equal citizenship without compromising national unity and sovereignty.
We will re-secure our borders to minimize external threats to our country and its citizens.
We will never allow public institutions and employees to abuse their authority and titles arising from their duty to ensure security in order to evade legal supervision.
A SECURITY APPROACH THAT RESPECTS HUMAN RIGHTS
Security forces must respect universal human rights and
We will make the necessary legal arrangements for them to act in accordance with the rule of law.
We will ensure that security forces are trained according to the European Code of Police Ethics.
We will not allow security forces to use disproportionate force under any circumstances.
FIGHT AGAINST TERRORISM
We will act in international cooperation in the fight against terrorism, especially in our border regions, and adopt a rational security policy.
National efforts to block terrorist financing sources
and we will fight at the international level.
We will redress the grievances of our citizens who have been harmed by terrorism.
In the fight against terrorism, we will be based on all international agreements to which we are a party, especially UN conventions.
MERIT AND PUBLIC INTEREST IN SECURITY
We will keep the security forces out of all political structures.
I'm calling on the General Directorate of Security
We will purge the Turkish Armed Forces of vested interests and organized sieges.
We will put an end to political favoritism in the recruitment and promotion processes of security personnel and take merit as a basis.
We will transform the National Intelligence Organization into an institution that looks after the interests of our nation and citizens, not the interests of one man.
CONTROL OF INDIVIDUAL ARMAMENT
We will make legal arrangements to restrict and control individual armament.
We will make access to weapons more difficult.
We will raise the age of gun ownership to 21 and require a health check every 2 years.
We will reduce the ammunition allowance for civilians to 200 per year.
We will toughen the penalties for possessing unlicensed, lost or stolen weapons and for selling illegal weapons online.
IMPROVED WORKING CONDITIONS AND HIGH QUALITY
Within the scope of improving their personal rights, we will give 3600 additional indicators to the police.
We will improve the capabilities and equipment of security forces.
We will ensure that security forces receive effective psychological support so that they can establish better relations with the public and perform their duties under difficult conditions.
We will provide intelligence agencies with the means and capabilities to use high technology in command, control and information systems.
Non-commissioned Officers
We will grant 3600 additional indicators to non-commissioned officers.
We will improve the working hours and conditions of non-commissioned officers and solve their compensation problems.
We will increase the entry level of non-commissioned officers to 9/2.
We will upgrade non-commissioned officer vocational schools to undergraduate level.
We will solve the status problem of specialized gendarmes.
We will count the time spent at the specialized gendarmerie school as service.
Correctional Officers
We will reorganize the shift system to guarantee the payment of additional overtime wages for correctional officers and guards.
We will transfer them to the security services class, taking into account their professional conditions and the dangers they are exposed to.
We will give 3600 additional indicators.
We will make contracted penal execution and protection officers permanent staff.
We will pay the gun license fees of retired penal execution and protection officers from the budget.
MARTYRS' RELATIVES AND VETERANS
We will establish the "High Council of Martyrs' Relatives and Veterans" under the Prime Ministry to coordinate and deal with the problems of martyrs' relatives, veterans and veterans' relatives.
We will equalize the lower limit of the net monthly income of the spouses of our martyrs, or their parents and veterans if they do not have spouses, to the lowest net civil servant salary.
We will give green passports to all families of martyrs and veterans.
We will ensure that the children of martyrs who are over the age of 18 and who are not students can be employed in public institutions without limitation of persons.
We will provide the necessary support for the children of veterans and martyrs to continue their education with scholarships.
We will bring the health insurance of all veterans to the same level as MPs.
We will give veterans the right to a second job and the right to retire in 3000 days.
We will grant veteran status to all members of the Turkish Armed Forces who were wounded in the fight against terrorism.
COMPULSORY MILITARY SERVICE
We will shorten the duration of military service.
We will enable university students to complete their military service in 3-month periods during summer vacations.
PERSONNEL AND PERSONNEL
We will increase the monthly allowances paid to privates and conscripts.
In this context, we will increase the allowances of sergeants, corporals and privates to 500 TL, 450 TL and 400 TL respectively.
We will increase these amounts every year by the rate of increase for civil servants.
We will consider privates and conscripts insured during their military service and ensure that their premiums are paid by the state.
We will provide unemployment benefits for up to six months to citizens who cannot find a job after returning from military service.
TRANSPORT
With the Central Turkey Project, we will transform our country into a terminal country connecting Europe, Asia, the Middle East and Africa.
We will strengthen the use of information technology in the transportation sector and support R&D activities in the sector.
We will improve the information infrastructure in all transportation systems.
We will rapidly develop our national locomotive and wagon industry in line with the supply of inputs required for our railroad breakthrough.
In line with the Central Turkey Project and within the scope of our 5 Development Belts program, we will implement projects that will increase productivity in transportation infrastructure.
DEVELOPMENT BELT PROJECTS
In order to strengthen our railway backbone, we will create two main lines in the east-west direction and three main lines in the north-south direction.
In this context, we will modernize the existing railway network connecting Samsun Port to the Mediterranean.
We will build a railway network centered on Central Anatolia to connect all of our regions.
We will connect this network to our international ports and international transportation networks.
We will prioritize investments that will accelerate land transportation between our provinces in the Sun Belt.
We will establish a transportation circle around the Marmara Sea that activates rail and road transportation.
We will create the infrastructure for the expansion of industrial and commercial activities in Istanbul to the provinces of Marmara, Western Black Sea, Northern Aegean and northwestern Central Anatolia.
We will develop combined transportation.
We will increase the share of sea and railways in transportation and strengthen the rail connections of ports.
In this context, we will turn Samsun Port into the KEY-PORT of the Black Sea and thus reduce the congestion at the Bosphorus crossings.
RAIL TRANSPORTATION
Current Projects
We will complete the existing high-speed rail and high-speed railway projects.
We will modernize and electrify old and worn-out railway lines.
We will extend our Black Sea coastal railway line to Batumi border gate.
We will accelerate the GAP railway project connecting GAP to the ports in Mersin and Iskenderun, and complete the high-speed railway project between Gaziantep and Şanlıurfa.
We will establish a high-speed rail link between Burdur and Isparta and Antalya.
Rail Systems in Cities
We will modernize and reopen Haydarpaşa Station and other train stations in our cities that have fallen into disuse by preserving their historical texture.
We will ensure that rail transportation systems gain weight in the transportation of our medium-sized cities and big cities.
We will support the establishment and development of suburban lines in coordination with municipalities.
We will establish Rail Bus systems in our rural and tourism regions to provide medium distance fast transportation.
ROAD TRANSPORTATION
We will revise the Land Transportation Law in cooperation with professional chambers, taking into account complaints about authorization certificates, tax, insurance, penalties and similar complaints.
We will strengthen the connections of our provinces, districts and villages whose road connections are neglected.
We will rapidly modernize the road networks in the GAP region and tourism centers and make new investments in these areas in line with the needs.
We will bring divided roads, which cause many accidents due to inadequate planning and poor quality implementation, up to standards.
We will only use asphalt surface coating on roads with an Annual Average Daily Traffic (AADT) below 1,500.
We will use hot mix asphalt on roads with traffic above this number.
We will cancel the high traffic guarantees on highways and bridges built under the Build-Operate-Transfer model, which lead to unfair profits for contractors and public losses.
We will build alternative ring roads to reduce traffic on main roads that pass through our residential areas and create noise, pollution and danger.
Where necessary, we will build sound curtains to prevent noise pollution and rainwater channels to collect rain and snow water accumulated on the road platform.
We will collect the water collected through rainwater channels in treatment plants and utilize it for irrigation of agricultural lands.
We will make legal arrangements to ensure that road investments are included in the scope of EIA again.
We will reconsider the Northern Marmara Motorway Project in a way to remove the elements that destroy nature and public health.
We will re-plan the Çanakkale Bridge and highway crossing in a way that does not harm the historical texture and natural assets of the region.
We will rapidly implement measures to minimize the damages caused by the Black Sea Coastal Road and ensure that settlements that have lost their connection to the sea are reconnected to the sea.
The Three-Storey Grand Istanbul Tunnel Project, planned to be built in the Bosphorus, will be realized physically, financially and
We will re-evaluate in an environmental sense.
We will prioritize the use of cement concrete in newly constructed roads in order to utilize the surplus cement produced by our cement factories.
MARITIME AND MARITIME TRANSPORTATION
Planning and Supervision
We will modernize ship tracking and monitoring systems, which are insufficient in terms of ensuring the safety of life, property, navigation and environment in maritime.
We will ensure that inspection and surveillance systems cover all our coasts.
Shipyards and Ports
We will support shipbuilding and maintenance-repair shipyards and encourage the transformation of small-scale shipyards in this direction.
We will strengthen the transportation connections of existing ports and support international transportation with a comprehensive upgrade.
We will consider the road and rail connections of the ports to be built within the framework of integrated transportation planning.
AIR TRANSPORTATION
Airports
We will develop our airports, build new airports where development projects are insufficient, and utilize idle airports effectively.
We will provide transportation to airports for our citizens living in provinces without airports.
Aviation Sector
We will make the necessary infrastructure investments for the development of the aviation sector, support aircraft and parts production, and prioritize R&D activities.
We will establish air ambulance networks for regions with transportation difficulties and improve existing networks.
SPORTS
LEGAL REGULATIONS
We will abolish Passolig and e-ticket applications.
We will reorganize the Law on Violence in Sports, which was drafted with a prohibitionist mentality that disregards individual rights and freedoms, with a democratic approach.
We will make the necessary legal arrangements for all sports laborers to have social security and union rights.
We will create a sports services class within the State Personnel Law.
We will harmonize national sports law with international sports law.
INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS IN SPORT
We will establish a Sports Law Department in law faculties.
We will ensure that the Turkish National Olympic Committee and the Paralympic Committee work more effectively.
We will end discrimination in sports and make the necessary institutional arrangements to ensure equal opportunity.
We will establish the Turkish Anti-Doping Agency (TADA).
INSTITUTIONALIZATION
We will make sports facilities available free of charge to amateur sports clubs and all citizens in cooperation with local governments in order to popularize mass sports.
We will build sports facilities in public institutions so that employees can do sports.
We will encourage the private sector in this regard.
We will establish barrier-free sports fields for people with disabilities.
EDUCATION AND SPORTS
We will put an end to the understanding of raising athletes based on imported athletes, disregarding our wide talent pool.
We will make the necessary arrangements for our young people to continue their education and sports careers together.
In 81 provinces, we will ensure the opening of regional sports high schools and raise the education level of our young athletes.
We will make arrangements in the education system to facilitate and encourage student participation in amateur sports.
We will provide support to sports clubs, including the allocation of public land to open sports schools.
TRANSPARENCY AND FAIRNESS IN SPORTS REVENUES
We will free the transfer of resources to federations from political, institutional and personal favoritism.
We will secure the financial independence of federations and establish a transparent audit system.
We will reorganize the award regulations on the basis of fairness.
We will prevent the rewards, incentives and aids given to clubs and athletes from wounding the public conscience.
In addition to the share of the budget allocated to sports, we will institutionalize the equitable distribution of legal betting revenues to our clubs.
INTERNATIONAL PROMOTION ACTIVITIES
With the participation of all stakeholders, we will prepare and implement a realistic strategic action plan for organizing the Olympics in Turkey.
We will develop sports tourism by building world-class sports facilities in harmony with the environment.
We will spread the spirit of Olympism by developing the understanding of fair play through harmony, communication and cooperation among the stakeholders of sports.
A FAIR AND DIGNIFIED WORKING LIFE
The value attached to labor, the fair distribution of the wealth produced and the living standards achieved by workers are among the main indicators of welfare in societies.
Today, while production and services are diversifying and increasing, working conditions are aggravating and wages and living standards are declining.
The Republican People's Party aims for a Turkey where everyone produces and earns.
It aims to establish a working life worthy of human dignity by protecting labor.
The AKP government has impoverished workers by exerting intense pressure on working life.
It has turned Turkey into a country of cheap labor.
While failing to find a solution to rapidly increasing unemployment, it has made overwork the norm and turned a blind eye to modern slavery.
As a result of lack of supervision and impunity, work accidents and murders have increased exponentially and become commonplace.
It has systematically blocked workers' means of organizing and claiming their rights.
Under CHP rule, we will provide our citizens with a decent living standard and wages.
We will ensure equality in working life and fight against all forms of discrimination.
We will adopt the principle of secure employment and prioritize the fight against unemployment.
We will bring working conditions, worker health and safety in line with international standards.
We will create a skilled workforce by developing vocational and on-the-job training programs.
We will restore workers to their trade union rights and freedom of association.
We will remove all obstacles to remedies.
LEGAL ASSURANCE
We will reorganize the Labor Law according to the principle of labor protection and to cover all workers.
We will bring fair working conditions, social security, the right to organize and collective bargaining in line with the ILO and the European Social Charter.
We will fulfill the criteria for the opening of the chapter on Social Policy and Employment in the EU negotiations as soon as possible.
PROTECTING EQUALITY, COMBATING DISCRIMINATION
We will fight against all forms of discrimination such as gender, ethnic identity, religion, language and race in working life and wage determination.
We will bring women's employment to the same level as men's by eliminating the conditions that confine women at home and prevent them from participating in the labor force.
We will support the employment of disabled people.
We will develop effective policies that prioritize the needs of the disabled in working life.
BETTER WAGES, HIGHER STANDARD OF LIVING
We will bring wages to a level where workers and their families can live a life worthy of human dignity.
We will abolish taxes on the minimum wage.
We will increase the lowest wage to 2,200 TL net, taking into account the inflation difference and the welfare share.
We will adopt the principle of equal pay for equal work and eliminate tax injustices.
We will make the working week 40 hours with no reduction in pay.
We will impose heavy sanctions on workplaces that do not comply with overtime regulations set by legal limits.
We will reorganize the annual leave periods of employees.
Those with 6 months - 3 years of service will be entitled to 16 days of annual leave, those with 3 - 10 years of service will be entitled to 22 days, and those with more than 10 years of service will be entitled to 28 days.
We will increase rest periods in accordance with the lines of work and working hours.
EMPLOYMENT AND UNEMPLOYMENT
We will reduce unemployment to below 5% in 5 years.
We will increase public employment based on the EU average.
We will expand the scope of Unemployment Insurance and increase the duration and amount of unemployment benefit by 50%.
We will ease the criteria for qualifying for unemployment benefit.
We will abolish the obligation to pay premiums for 120 consecutive days before termination of employment.
We will reduce the requirement to have paid unemployment premium for 600 days in the last 3 years to 300 days.
We will use the Unemployment Insurance Fund only for its intended purpose.
We will ensure that representatives of labor unions predominate in the management of the fund.
JOB SECURITY
We will put an end to subcontractor labor, subcontractor and royalty practices in the public sector as an example for the private sector.
We will abolish all forms of temporary and precarious employment in the public sector.
We will transfer all staff in this scope to civil servants and workers.
We will ensure that the workers who have been recruited are considered workers in the same line of work and benefit from the collective agreements made by the unions organized in this line of work.
We will recruit all workers excluded in the transition of subcontracted workers in the public sector in the first 6 months.
We will eliminate inequalities and injustices in the transition to staff.
We will repeal the Regulation on Private Employment Agencies, which introduces the modern slavery regime with hired labor.
We will protect severance pay.
In case of bankruptcy of the employer, we will make severance pay a priority claim along with all other workers' rights.
We will eliminate the loss of personal rights due to employment in different statuses in the public sector.
We will fight against unregistered work.
We will establish an effective workplace inspection system and impose severe sanctions on those who employ unregistered workers.
We will fight against the unregistered employment of foreign and migrant workers who are seen as cheap labor.
We will end child labor.
We will eliminate the grievances of interns and apprentices in vocational education regarding their personal rights.
For long-term insurance branches, we will take the start date of apprenticeship or internship as the insurance start date.
We will provide the right to borrow for periods spent as apprentices and trainees.
WORKER HEALTH AND SAFETY
We will reform the legislation on worker health and safety in line with ILO norms.
We will impose heavy sanctions on employers who do not comply with worker health and safety rules.
We will reclassify hazardous lines of work, taking into account work accidents and occupational diseases.
We will remove the limitations on the number of retirement days for those working in hazardous industries and those who benefit from the actual service time increase.
We will work in cooperation with professional chambers, trade unions and universities for the diagnosis, treatment and prevention of occupational diseases.
We will create an autonomous, democratic institutional structure in worker health and safety with the participation of trade unions, professional chambers and universities.
We will link workplace physicians and occupational safety experts to this institution.
We will provide full job security for workplace doctors and occupational safety experts.
We will make the dismissal of these experts subject to the approval of the labor inspector and the union shop steward.
SKILLED LABOR
VOCATIONAL AND ON-THE-JOB TRAINING
We will implement vocational training programs in cooperation with İŞKUR and the private sector, taking into account the supply and demand balance.
We will place 1 million unemployed citizens in 9-12 month training programs where they will be paid a minimum wage.
We will make on-the-job training compulsory for all employees, especially those working in hazardous occupations.
We will introduce tax incentives for employers who invest in on-the-job training.
HIGH VALUE ADDED SECTORS
We will support production sectors that employ high-skilled and high-wage labor and use high technology intensively.
We will support R&D centers, technoparks and production sectors within the framework of active labor market policies.
We will establish boarding vocational education units in OIZs and turn OIZs into vocational education campuses.
TRADE UNION RIGHTS
We will put an end to state and power-driven unionism.
We will free the trade union field from the interventions of political powers.
We will recognize the right to union membership, the right to collective bargaining and the right to strike as a whole.
We will bring the exercise of these rights in line with ILO conventions.
We will pave the way for workers to organize in trade unions and claim their rights.
We will remove obstacles to the exercise of the right to collective bargaining and the right to strike.
With the Working Life and Rights course to be taught to senior students in high schools and equivalent schools, we will ensure that young people are knowledgeable about trade unionism and labor legislation before they enter working life.
UNION ORGANIZATION
We will prevent employers from putting pressure on workers' organizations.
We will increase unionization rates by financially incentivizing employers who employ unionized workers.
We will guarantee the working rights and conditions of unionized workers and civil servants, workplace union representatives and managers.
We will establish "Trade Union Schools" to increase the interest of young people who will enter the working life in trade union life.
COLLECTIVE LABOR AGREEMENT
We will abolish the double membership threshold based on branch and workplace required for collective bargaining authorization.
We will pave the way for multi-level bargaining systems and enable collective bargaining at both workplace and branch level.
We will ensure that the right to collective bargaining covers all workers and remove barriers to their participation in collective bargaining processes.
We will grant public employees the right to a union with strike and collective bargaining.
We will leave the determination of the authorization to conclude collective bargaining agreements to an independent body and introduce a quick and effective judicial review.
In the event of a dispute over the determination of the authorized union for collective bargaining, we will rely on the use of the referendum method for judicial review.
We will abolish the mandatory mediation system in disputes between workers and employers, and take judicial review as a basis.
We will make social dialogue mechanisms, especially the Economic and Social Council, functional and widespread, and we will implement the principle of equal representation.
RIGHT TO STRIKE
We will guarantee the right to strike and abolish regulations that de facto prevent the exercise of this right.
We will remove all legal obstacles to Rights Strikes, Warning Strikes, Solidarity Strikes and General Strikes.
We will put an end to regulations that allow strike bans and strike postponements.
SEGMENTS OF SOCIETY
The Republican People's Party defends social democracy's ideal of social and class reconciliation.
It adopts a political approach based on social solidarity and peace, taking into account the interests of all segments of society, especially working people.
CHP believes that creating an egalitarian society requires the establishment of a social state that fully fulfills its responsibilities towards its citizens.
Only in this way can disadvantaged segments of society be freed from economic dependency, become free citizens and stand on their own feet.
Ensuring that citizens have access to equal conditions is one of the primary responsibilities of the social state.
With this conviction, CHP aims to improve the state's existing tax, incentive, redistribution and social policy programs to increase the welfare of citizens.
and reorganize them on the basis of improving working conditions.
New social support programs, especially Family Insurance, on the basis of social inclusion
and will put it into practice with an understanding of sustainable development.
CHP has the ideal of a society where social solidarity prevails, where no segment is left behind and all segments work for the common good of our people.
Our main goal is to ensure income justice, to share prosperity fairly and to create a Turkey where no child goes to bed hungry.
WOMEN
EQUALITARIAN REGULATIONS
We will establish a "Ministry of Women".
We will change the Commission for Equal Opportunities for Women and Men in the Turkish Grand National Assembly to the Commission for Equality between Women and Men.
We will monitor the compliance of laws with gender equality.
We will make March 8, International Working Women's Day an official holiday.
We will remove the obstacles preventing women from freely making all decisions about their bodies, especially reproduction and childbirth.
WOMEN AND ECONOMY
Economic Supports
We will pay 25% of the employer's share of the SSI premium for every new female employment.
In order to increase women's participation in employment, we will provide a corporate tax exemption of 1 point for every 5% additional female employment for enterprises with more than 20% of their employees being women.
We will reduce income tax for women artisans.
We will support women's cooperatives, cover their establishment costs from the budget and provide bureaucratic facilities.
Women who were not insured at the time they gave birth will also be entitled to a birth borrowing for a period of one year.
We will increase the state contribution in Private Pension Insurance to 33% for women.
We will put an end to the practice of cutting the pensions of women receiving orphan pensions from SSK and Bağ-Kur if they work.
We will provide a 10% to 30% cost advantage in public procurement to support companies founded by women entrepreneurs and young entrepreneurs.
Women Employment
We will gradually increase women's participation in working life to the OECD average.
We will implement a 33% quota for women in management positions in the public sector.
We will ensure that women's skills and labor needs, not the social roles attributed to them, are the determining factors in the process of acquiring a profession.
In the Women's Ministry we will establish, we will employ 70% women at all levels.
We will take measures to increase the number of women in management positions in the public and private sectors.
Working Conditions
Through auditing, we will implement the principle of equal pay for equal work.
To increase women's participation in union life, we will cover union dues from the budget for 6 months.
We will increase breastfeeding leave to 2 hours.
We will remove definitions that discriminate against women from the Labor Law.
We will add the concepts of verbal, physical, psychological harassment and mobbing to the Labor Law as forms of violence.
Maintenance Burden
Domestic services and
We will prevent informality in areas where women work intensively, such as the agricultural sector.
We will remove the burden of caring for children, the sick, the elderly, the disabled and cleaning from women's duties.
We will provide social security coverage to women who undertake this work at home.
We will improve the quality of day care and home care services and make them free of charge.
We will increase parental leave to 6 months in the public sector.
Recognizing that childcare is a shared responsibility, we will ensure that men also benefit from this leave period.
We will determine the obligation to open breastfeeding rooms and crèches in workplaces according to the number of all employees, not just female employees.
We will open enough free kindergartens in all neighborhoods.
We will pay a certain amount of support to families who send their children to private kindergartens.
EDUCATION
We will ensure equal participation of girls in education at all levels.
We will reorganize scholarship programs and dormitory quotas on the basis of positive discrimination.
We will pave the way for women who had to drop out of education to return to their education.
We will remove gender discriminatory subjects from the curriculum.
We will include gender lessons in the compulsory curriculum.
We will support gender equality trainings in public institutions and the private sector.
VIOLENCE
We will make the prevention of violence against women a priority state policy.
We will establish a special unit to combat violence, composed of representatives from all relevant public institutions and civil society organizations.
We will guarantee the confidentiality of women who have been subjected to violence and ensure that victims are provided with a safe environment.
Legal Regulations
We will fulfill the requirements of the Istanbul Convention and ensure its supervision.
We will include violence against women as a serious crime in the Turkish Penal Code.
We will toughen penalties for femicides and crimes against sexual inviolability.
We will abolish unjust provocation and good behavior discounts.
In crimes against sexual inviolability, we will ensure that the statements of women and children are taken as basis.
Institutional Arrangements
We will expand shelters, women's counseling centers and sexual violence crisis centers across the country and increase their quality.
We will provide psychological and material support for women in shelters to participate in daily and economic life.
We will prevent women and children who are victims of violence from being victimized again in legal processes.
We will ensure that public officials who will deal with victims receive training appropriate to the sensitivity of the issue.
SOCIAL AND POLITICAL PARTICIPATION
We will ensure women's broad and effective participation in local governments.
We will ensure that the 33% gender quota is also implemented in municipal councils.
We will establish women's commissions at the local level and ensure their active participation in municipal council meetings.
We will implement a women-friendly city.
Women's trade unions and
We will develop incentives to increase participation in CSOs.
We will prioritize women's organizations in support for civil society.
We will solve urban problems such as transportation and security that make it difficult or prevent women from participating in social and working life.
YOUTH
INSTITUTIONAL AND LEGAL ARRANGEMENTS
We will change the perspective in Article 58 of our Constitution that labels our youth as usual suspects.
We will establish a "Youth Specialized Commission" in the TBMM.
We will establish a "National Youth Council".
We will provide administrative and financial support to youth NGOs and encourage youth projects.
SUPPORT FOR YOUTH, JOBS AND FUTURE
Supports
We will give a "Young Card" to young people between the ages of 15 - 25 who are students or unemployed.
We will offer a 50% discount on train ticket sales to Young Card holders.
We will provide free monthly 2 GB mobile Internet access to Genç Card holders.
With the Youth Card, we will ensure that "Youth Discount" is applied in cultural and art event tickets and stores.
We will give Young Card holders the right to buy a phone without paying SCT once in 4 years.
We will completely abolish the fair use quota on fixed Internet lines.
We will abolish the entrance fee for all exams conducted by ÖSYM.
We will provide 400 TL monthly university preparation support within the scope of Family Insurance to young people between the ages of 18 and 20 who cannot succeed in the university entrance exam and whose financial situation is not sufficient.
We will give university students an annual Youth Scholarship of 1,000 TL, 500 TL each on May 19 and October 29.
Active Youth
We will support university students to travel abroad twice during their study period to cover transportation and accommodation costs.
We will abolish the passport book fee and exit fees for students.
We will raise the age limit for passport fees to 30 for those who are still students.
We will increase the grant amount for young people who go abroad for education through exchange programs.
Dormitories and Student Houses
We will solve the dormitory problem within a year by building dormitories with rooms for two people at most.
We will improve the quality of existing dormitories and eliminate inequalities between dormitories.
We will provide 400 TL monthly support to contribute to the rent, electricity and water bill costs of university student houses if at least two people reside there.
We will establish broadband Internet infrastructure in dormitories and provide free and quota-free access.
We will reduce KYK dormitory fees by 50%.
We will remove the inflation difference from the repayment of the KYK loan and save young people from the scourge of interest.
We will restructure debts.
University Campuses
We will organize cafeteria services at public universities on a non-profit basis, improve quality and reduce fees.
We will establish modern and qualified libraries that meet the requirements of the age on university campuses.
We will open Turkey's most comprehensive digital library.
STUDENTS IN PRISONS
We will ensure that the tuition fees of student inmates in prison are covered by the Ministry of Family and Social Policies.
We will abolish the attendance requirement for student prisoners.
We will guarantee their right to take exams and cover the costs of exam transportation.
We will allow student prisoners to complete their sentence in prisons in the province where they will study.
YOUTH EMPLOYMENT INITIATIVE
Under the Youth Guarantee Program, we will offer young people under 30 who have graduated from higher education the choice of employment, paid internship, continued education or unemployment support.
Under the program, we will increase internship opportunities in public institutions and provide incentives to expand paid internship opportunities in the private sector.
We will provide 750 TL unemployment support to poor young people who have recently graduated from university and are looking for a job if they are registered with İŞKUR.
We will provide young entrepreneurs with interest-free loans up to 200 thousand TL and 5-year income tax exemption.
CHILDREN
INSTITUTIONAL AND LEGAL ARRANGEMENTS
We will uncompromisingly protect children against all forms of abuse, poverty and deprivation.
We will reorganize the Child Protection Law based on the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child (CRC).
We will provide legal guarantees for the protection of children's rights when children are involved in judicial cases.
We will create conditions that will protect the physical and mental health and development of infants and children who live with adults in prisons and detention centers.
CHILD POVERTY
We will provide support for children covered by Family Insurance in the areas of health, nutrition, daycare and education.
Within the scope of Family Insurance, we will provide every child born with a "Baby Kit" to cover their basic needs for the first six months.
We will strengthen formal education and prevent child labor to break the cycle of poverty.
We will put all children forced to live on the streets, forced to work and beg under institutional protection.
CHILD HEALTH
We will make basic health care completely free for every child.
We will develop systematic programs involving family physicians to provide prenatal and postnatal services.
We will encourage breastfeeding for at least one year.
We will expand children's hospitals.
CHILD ABUSE
We will prevent the use of violence as an educational tool.
We will ensure that neglect and abuse of children are punished.
Where children are victimized, we will prioritize redressing their grievances.
We will prevent girls from being married off at an early age.
We will expand and activate Child Monitoring Centers (CIM).
CHILD IN THE JUSTICE SYSTEM
Children involved in forensic incidents will be supported by a team of social workers, psychologists and lawyers.
We will not aim to punish children pushed into crime, but to educate and reintegrate them into society.
We will restructure the Juvenile Courts and trial processes to serve this purpose and ensure that all children are tried by these courts regardless of the type of crime.
We will establish a separate chamber in the Court of Cassation to examine cases related to children.
ORPHANED CHILDREN
We will expand foster care and adoption practices.
At the age of 18, we will employ orphaned children who are forced to leave orphanages in the public sector.
DISABLED
We will act with the responsibility of a social state to ensure that people with disabilities benefit from all constitutional rights, especially education, health and employment, equally with non-disabled individuals.
We will build an accessible Turkey within a year, covering all public spaces and public services.
We will reorganize the legislation on obtaining health reports for the disabled in accordance with the scientific and Turkish reality.
We will restore the legal and constitutional rights of the disabled people who were denied their legal rights due to the reduction of disability rates in the reports.
We will ensure that disabled people with chronic diseases such as diabetes benefit from their legal rights, including employment.
We will solve the problem of our veterans not being considered disabled on the grounds of report regulations.
We will put an end to the ordeal of getting a report for each job and service.
We will ensure that report requests are met quickly and free of charge, without burdening the disabled.
We will provide employment for 50 thousand disabled people by filling the vacant positions reserved for disabled people in the public and private sectors.
HEALTH SERVICES FOR THE DISABLED
We will provide unconditional health insurance for all disabled people.
We will provide medical supplies, wheelchairs, prosthetics, orthotics and similar needs free of charge without any contribution.
We will improve the quality of health services and provide fast service to the disabled by solving the problems of making appointments and waiting for appointments at home.
We will solve the drug supply problem of all disabled people, including disabled people undergoing cancer treatment.
We will provide care insurance for all disabled people.
We will end the future worries of people with disabilities and their families.
HOME CARE SERVICES
We will reconnect home care pensions that were unfairly cut due to income criteria.
We will only consider the income of the disabled person when providing home care services.
We will provide health, psychological support and education services free of charge in home care.
We will include our citizens who receive home care pensions in the scope of social security.
DISABLED PENSION
We will abolish the household income criterion in the granting of the disability pension and will only take into account the income of the disabled person.
We will reconnect disability pensions that were unfairly cut due to income criteria.
SPECIAL EDUCATION FOR THE DISABLED
We will take measures for the early identification of people with disabilities who need special education and for the early start of special education.
We will determine the duration of special education according to the needs of the disabled and scientific criteria.
We will improve the quality of Guidance Research Centers (GRCs).
We will prioritize inclusive education.
For quality and sustainable inclusive education, we will provide in-service training for teachers and improve the spatial conditions of schools.
We will consider the lifelong learning needs of individuals with intellectual disabilities and autism.
ELDERLY
We will identify the deficiencies in our legal system on the rights of the elderly through a detailed review and make the necessary arrangements immediately.
We will restore pensions to the elderly whose pensions have been unfairly cut in recent years.
We will provide health insurance for all our elderly people.
Taking into account the demographic structure in cities, we will open elderly care homes and nursing homes in sufficient number and quality and improve the quality of home care and support services.
If all adults in the household work, we will ensure that our citizens in need of care in the household benefit from day care services for the elderly free of charge.
We will expand home support and care services and provide care insurance for all elderly people.
In providing home care services, we will only take into account the individual income of our elderly citizens, not household income.
We will provide services such as food, cleaning, health care as well as psychological and social support to the elderly in their homes.
We will put an end to co-payments for basic health services provided to the elderly.
We will establish geriatric hospitals where preventive health services and early diagnosis and treatment services are provided.
PENSIONERS
INSTITUTIONAL AND LEGAL ARRANGEMENTS
We will enact a fair adjustment law.
We will reorganize the coefficient and indicator system.
We will eliminate the victimization of those who are stuck in retirement age.
We will ensure that they benefit from health services without paying a premium.
We will restore lost pension rights through legislation.
We will also grant citizens with Bağ-Kur and Tarım Bağ-Kur the right to borrow for the periods before 2008 when they were registered with tax registries, company partnerships or agricultural chambers.
ECONOMIC SUPPORT
As of January 1, 2019, we will make the lowest pension 1,500 TL.
We will give pensioners a salary bonus on Ramadan and Eid al-Adha.
We will give pensioners a welfare share from the increase in national income.
We will enact an adjustment law that will compensate retirees for their past welfare share losses.
We will raise retired bank promotions to the same rate as public employees.
We will abolish medical and pharmaceutical co-payments and difference fees for retirees.
PARTICIPATION IN SOCIAL LIFE
We will ensure that citizens over 65 can benefit from culture, arts and sports activities free of charge.
We will build new facilities for professional groups that do not have social facilities.
With the projects to be realized in cooperation with the Ministry of Tourism and TÜRSAB, we will provide our pensioners with travel and vacation opportunities at reasonable prices.
CONSUMERS
CONSUMER RIGHTS
We will ensure the full implementation of the UN Universal Declaration of Consumer Rights and the Law on the Protection of Consumer Rights.
We will establish the "Consumer Rights Supreme Council".
We will activate inspections on product safety and quality.
We will ensure that consumers effectively exercise their right to information.
By expanding social enterprises and cooperatives, we will reduce intermediate levels in the supply chain and lower consumer prices.
We will ensure the refund of loan file fees, card fees, electricity loss and leakage and meter reading fees taken from consumers.
We will put an end to the exorbitant prices charged to citizens who want to meet their communication needs such as internet, TV and telephone without commitment.
We will end the practice of municipalities charging citizens for asphalt.
We will abolish the TRT shares reflected on citizens' bills and the TRT banderole practice that causes additional costs in electronic devices.
CONSUMER HEALTH
We will resolutely implement EU standards on the import, production and consumption of genetically modified products (GMOs).
We will urgently take the necessary measures to ensure balanced, adequate and healthy nutrition for our children.
We will ensure that consumer goods are environmentally friendly through legal regulations and incentives.
We will ensure the effective detection of imported products that are harmful to human health and prevent the sale of these products domestically.
OCCUPATIONAL GROUPS
ESNAF
Legal Regulations
By establishing a Ministry of Tradesmen, we will ensure that the problems of tradesmen and artisans have a large place in politics.
We will ensure that licensing procedures are carried out by the chambers of artisans.
We will prevent unfair competition by Syrians doing business exempt from taxes and legal obligations.
Social Security
We will abolish the Social Security Support Premium for tradesmen who have retired but continue to work.
We will eliminate the differences against tradesmen by ensuring norm and standard unity in social security.
Support and Incentives
We will abolish rent withholding tax for tradesmen.
We will ensure that tradesmen can deduct their workplace expenses such as rent, vehicle expenses, etc. from tax.
We will provide tradesmen with zero-interest loans equal to the amount of taxes and premiums they pay annually.
We will enable tradesmen to own shops like paying rent with low-interest and long-term loans.
We will strengthen Credit Surety Cooperatives and increase the amount of credit.
We will support the organization of tradesmen working in the same field into bazaars and industrial estates.
We will reduce costs by using common materials and services.
We will provide tax advantages to cluster companies and social enterprises established by artisans.
We will make historical bazaars autonomous.
Social Security
We will grant the right to borrow to tradesmen and craftsmen who are taxpayers but have not registered and registered for insurance, for the periods they were registered as taxpayers, company partners or agricultural chambers before 2008.
We will unify apprenticeship and journeyman training and ensure that the short-term insurance premiums of journeymen are also paid by the state.
For journeymen over 18 years of age, we will introduce journeyman borrowing for long-term insurance premiums for up to 24 months.
We will provide support such as tax deductions and insurance premium discounts to tradesmen and craftsmen who employ young people attending vocational high schools or apprenticeship training centers.
TOURISM WORKERS
We will increase the qualifications of those working in the tourism sector through employment-guaranteed training programs.
We will make low-season discounts on insurance premiums for employees of tourism enterprises that continue to operate in the low season.
We will improve the working conditions of tourism workers and bring their working hours within legal limits.
DRIVERS
We will solve the wage, overtime work, leave and social security problems of drivers and other personnel working in the transportation sector.
We will establish an effective road inspection system through competent ministries and institutions.
We will ensure that truck parks and stopover areas are guarded by police or gendarmerie.
We will promote card payment systems for taxis.
By improving the vehicle mileage registration system, we will pay an average diesel support premium of 0.25 kurus per liter to transporters using vehicles with a capacity of 12 tons.
We will reduce Traffic Insurance Policy prices by removing 10% SSI and 5% BITT deductions in traffic insurance.
We will reduce the cost of Traffic Insurance for heavy vehicles.
We will reorganize the conditions set by the Banks and Tradesmen Credit Cooperatives so that small tradesmen in the transportation sector can also use credit.
We will provide scrap support for vehicles over 20 years old used in international, intercity and urban transportation and passenger transportation, and we will ensure the renewal of vehicles.
We will ensure that commercial taxis and school vehicles are exempt from SCT when they are renewed every 5 years.
We will reduce the fees paid for authorization certificates and allow tradesmen to pay in installments.
We will solve the wage, overtime work, leave, unregistered work and other social security problems of drivers and other personnel working in the transportation sector, and
establish an effective road control system with smart transportation systems.
We will give drivers the right to retire early by including them in the scope of actual service time increase (attrition share).
We will also give unemployed commercial vehicle owners the right to benefit from Unemployment Insurance.
We will actively fight against pirate taxi driving and prevent unfair competition.
FOREST VILLAGERS
We will include forest villagers' work related to forestry activities within the scope of social security.
We will ensure that insurance premiums are paid by the state.
We will take into account the views of the forest cooperative unions in determining the price of the feed-in tariffs.
We will prioritize forest villagers and cooperatives living in and around forests in forestry activities.
We will abolish the recent amendments to the Forestry Law to the detriment of forest villagers.
We will encourage cooperatives in forest villages.
We will develop and support Social Assistance Funds within cooperatives or supreme organizations.
We will increase the grant rate of ORKÖY loans and improve loan payment conditions.
We will hold the state responsible as an employer for occupational health and safety in forestry work.
We will open forest gaps free of charge for agricultural use by forest villagers without disturbing the forest ecosystem.
We will restore the functionality of Forest Research Institutes.
SEASONAL AGRICULTURAL WORKERS
We will ensure that all seasonal agricultural workers are registered by İŞ-KUR and have social security.
Seasonal agricultural workers will be covered by the Law on Collective Labor Agreements, Strikes and Lockouts.
We will eliminate the wage differences between seasonal agricultural workers doing the same job.
We will improve transportation, housing and security conditions for seasonal agricultural workers.
We will guarantee access to health services.
We will ensure that agricultural intermediaries are audited by professional chambers.
CONSTRUCTION WORKERS
We will abolish the subcontractor system in construction projects commissioned and tendered by the public sector and ensure that all workers work under the main company and with security.
We will immediately revoke the work permits of construction sites where fatal work accidents (work murders) occur and suspend the activities of the companies operating the construction site in the construction sector.
We will make the necessary arrangements to improve housing, food and heating conditions at construction sites.
PRIVATE SECURITY EMPLOYEES
We will ensure that private security employees are given the depreciation share they deserve.
We will encourage private security workers to organize in unions.
We will prevent them from working outside their job descriptions.
OTHER OCCUPATIONAL GROUPS
We will protect call center employees against verbal and psychological violence and secure their depreciation rights.
We will ensure that all 50/d research assistants have job security.
We will ensure the employment of hundreds of thousands of unemployed FEAS graduates in the public sector based on merit.
We will ensure that working hours, days off and working conditions of shopping mall employees are regulated in accordance with the Labor Law.
We will give religious officials the right to 3600 additional indicators.
CULTURE AND ART
We cannot think of culture as independent from the society in which it flourishes, and art as independent from the artist who produces it.
The basic condition for cultural and artistic development is a free, democratic and uncensored environment.
Art, by its very essence, is critical, oppositional, anti-authoritarian.
Art depicts problems.
Plays a leading role in producing creative, innovative and rational solutions.
The artist expresses good and evil, right and wrong without hesitation.
The increasingly authoritarian AKP government is eliminating the conditions under which art can be freely practiced.
It exerts pressure, censorship and domination over artists.
With its uniformist approach, the AKP imposes a certain culture and lifestyle on society and seeks to destroy our historical and cultural diversity.
The AKP's culture and arts policy, which moves away from contemporary and universal values, damages our reputation in the international arena.
The Republican People's Party will create a culture and arts climate in which all artists can produce freely, express their criticism without fear and be fairly compensated for their work.
CHP is the guarantee of a Turkey where no artist is put on trial for a sculpture he has made, where he is not labeled a terrorist for a play he has staged and where he is not put on trial for his writings.
In CHP government, we will establish a participatory, pluralist, holistic, free and democratic culture and arts policy.
We will end the oppression of art.
We will remove restrictive legal regulations as soon as possible.
We will establish the Supreme Council of Arts to support artistic activities, ensure the autonomy of art institutions and coordination between institutions.
We will limit the regulatory role of the state in culture and arts to providing infrastructure and facilities.
We will secure all rights of art workers, especially copyright and union rights.
We will expand artistic and cultural activities across the country so that all citizens can enjoy equal access to the arts.
We will abolish taxes on artistic activities.
We will increase support and incentives in the field of culture and arts and adopt the principles of impartiality and transparency in their distribution.
We will remove the obstacles to equal representation of all thoughts, values and belief systems.
LEGAL AND INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS
We will sign and put into force the UNESCO Convention on the Protection and Promotion of the Diversity of Cultural Expressions.
We will cancel the draft law on TÜSAK and protect the autonomy and freedom of art institutions.
We will prevent political, arbitrary bans and censorship in the field of art and culture with an Art Law.
We will put an end to monopolization in distribution and broadcasting networks.
We will ensure equal opportunities in the publication, broadcasting and distribution of works.
We will complete the necessary legal arrangements with the participation of the components for the development of digital broadcasting.
We will prevent the unfair transfer of artists' financial rights arising from their works.
We will make the Ministry of Culture a separate ministry from the Ministry of Culture and Tourism.
We will spend the Contribution Share for the Protection of Immovable Cultural Assets, which is collected from property taxes, according to its purpose.
SOCIO-ECONOMIC SECURITY FOR ARTISTS
We will legally guarantee the social rights of our artists and cultural industry workers.
When necessary, we will ensure that the insurance premiums of art workers are paid by the Ministry of Culture.
We will improve the personal rights and working conditions of all our artists working for the state.
We will encourage the unionization of artists.
CULTURE AND ARTS INDUSTRY
We will minimize taxes on culture and arts.
We will reduce VAT on books, e-books and audio books to 1%.
We will provide incentives and tax relief to support national cinema and develop the film industry.
We will expand city and state theaters to cover all provinces.
We will abolish the Entertainment Tax on private theaters.
We will provide tax exemptions for these institutions to produce art freely.
We will modernize the legislation on patents and intellectual property.
We will protect copyrights and fight pirated products effectively.
We will take artistic quality as the only criterion in financial support and service procurement in the field of culture and arts.
We will increase the number of halls, stages, studios and seats so that citizens can access quality art events.
CITY, CULTURE AND ART
We will design all our cities as cultural and artistic spaces and invest in the development of authentic urban cultures.
We will regulate public transportation practices to facilitate access to culture and arts events.
We will make conservation boards autonomous and effective, and remove them from all kinds of political pressure.
MUSEUMMAZING
We will develop modern museology and implement the principle of preserving cultural heritage in the geography where it belongs.
We will provide incentives and infrastructure for the development of private museums.
We will put an end to the lack of staff in museums, especially in archaeology.
We will make museum administrations autonomous.
We will make entrance to museums free for all students.
EDUCATION
We will give more space to culture and arts in education and allocate more resources to culture and arts activities in schools.
We will increase the number of Fine Arts High Schools.
We will address the shortage of specialized teachers in these high schools.
We will identify children with a special talent for art at an early age and provide them with the most advanced educational opportunities to develop their talents.
RIGHT TO THE CITY
Cities are settlements that have emerged as a result of the need for people to live together and meet many needs such as education, health, housing, work and social activities.
In today's world, concepts such as smart cities, sharing cities and cultural cities are being discussed, while in our country, the city has been trapped in a spiral of rent, interest, borrowing and unemployment.
The one-man regime has proven in recent years that it is far from being able to create livable cities in Turkey.
Our cities are in need of a major transformation.
On the one hand, it is necessary to solve the problems of migration and unplanned construction of the past 50 years, and on the other hand, it is necessary to build living spaces worthy of civilized and democratic societies in the 21st century.
We will design cities suitable for rapidly changing technological infrastructures according to the needs of all segments of our society.
We will ensure that all disadvantaged groups, especially children, youth, women, the elderly, the disabled and low-income people, benefit equally from the opportunities offered by cities.
People-first investments and
We will put social justice at the center of urban policies.
We will not allow public lands to be used for rent-seeking without considering the public interest.
We will abandon the classical zoning plan approach based on the formation of property and the distribution of development rights.
We will reorganize the entire zoning legislation in line with international standards, in a holistic manner and in a way to prevent confusion of authority.
We will adopt an urban planning approach that emphasizes quality, aesthetics, art and design and makes cities livable places for citizens.
We will turn our cities into production centers with high added value.
We will plan all our cities in line with our vision of an information society.
We will quickly meet the needs of our citizens for healthy drinking water, housing and transportation.
We will build a modern life in all our cities by constructing facilities such as libraries, theaters, concert halls, parks, sports halls, swimming pools, stadiums, media parks, science centers and museums.
We will rapidly develop all public transportation facilities, especially rail systems, to improve urban transportation and prevent traffic congestion.
We will prioritize pedestrians and bicycles in the organization of urban traffic.
We will create areas free of vehicle traffic in our cities such as quiet streets, play streets, walking streets.
We will protect the pluralistic social fabric of our cities by taking into account differences and all lifestyles with the understanding of "Cities with Identity".
We will create spaces for intercultural interaction and meeting in city centers.
We will develop inclusive urban policies that promote integration and diversity in society.
We will make participatory planning and equality dominant in urban planning.
Within the framework of the principle of the right to the city, we will enable citizens to shape their own living spaces.
We will act together with local people, civil society organizations, universities and other constituents in decision-making processes.
We will address the relevance and validity of urban projects within the framework of objective and scientific criteria.
INSTITUTIONAL AND LEGAL ARRANGEMENTS
We will reorganize the entire zoning legislation in a holistic manner and prevent confusion of authority.
We will harmonize the Zoning Law and legislation with international standards, and focus on urban improvement instead of urban growth.
We will implement risk mitigation tools, methods and avoidance plans.
We will incorporate regulations on construction, retrofitting and infrastructure into the new Zoning Law and
develop energy- and carbon-efficient practices.
We will refund all residents who were charged for wastewater even though they have no infrastructure.
We will prepare risk maps and risk mitigation plans for all areas, streets and buildings in cities.
We will reorganize the legislation of the Natural Catastrophe Insurance Pool (TCIP).
We will operate the system in conjunction with local governments and with the goal of reducing risks.
SMART CITIES
We will build smart cities that use technology and information systematically and effectively in all areas from transportation to energy networks, from the built environment to daily life.
We will ensure that the services provided by municipalities are transformed into smart systems in an integrated manner and made accessible to more citizens.
We will create free wireless Internet areas in city centers and regional centers where lower income groups are concentrated.
We will prevent public lands from being used for rent-seeking without considering the public interest.
We will develop an integrated planning approach at regional, basin and urban-rural scales.
We will prepare risk, value, poverty, density and silhouette maps of cities.
We will make sure that all strategic projects and investment decisions are planned with these maps in mind.
TRANSPORTATION
We will prioritize public transportation in transportation master plans.
We will limit vehicular traffic in urban centers.
We will expand pedestrianization in city centers and regional hubs.
We will extend public transportation infrastructure to all parts of cities.
URBAN DEVELOPMENT
We will prepare local development plans, taking into account the comparative advantages of cities and urban regions.
High added value and
We will prioritize projects that create jobs.
We will authorize regional development agencies, governorships, metropolitan and provincial municipalities to prepare and implement local development plans.
We will prepare local development plans with a participatory approach.
We will ensure that the private sector, small producers, relevant professional chambers and artisan cooperatives also have a say.
We will evaluate the spatial strategies envisaged in local development plans within Master Development Plans.
We will give responsibility for these plans to metropolitan and provincial municipalities.
DEVELOPMENT AMNESTY
We will eliminate the victimization of our citizens who have buildings on 2/B land.
According to the Law No. 2981 on Zoning Amnesty, we will give the title deeds to our citizens who have not yet received the Title Deed Allocation Certificate within one year.
We will give legal status to unlicensed buildings.
We will grant a one-time zoning amnesty to all houses that have been used as dwellings in the last five years and do not pose a disaster risk, and we will grant licenses to unlicensed buildings.
We will ensure that our citizens residing in these buildings fully benefit from public services, especially municipal services.
COLLECTIVE DESIGN
We will ensure that public institutions, civil society organizations, universities and the private sector participate in urban planning activities.
We will introduce incentives for island-based construction instead of parcel-based construction.
CHEAP AND QUALITY HOUSING
We will provide loans with a maturity of up to 20 years at an interest rate of 0.50 per month to families who do not own a house, to buy a house for living purposes.
We will offer refinancing at the same interest and maturity terms to those who meet these qualifications and are already repaying their loans.
We will carry out public land production to meet the housing needs of low-income citizens and regulate urban development.
We will produce cheap and qualified housing on publicly owned land, primarily in cooperation with TOKİ and municipalities.
We will make it possible for housing associations and cooperatives to build social housing for rent for low-income people.
We will provide rent assistance to our low-income citizens living in rented houses according to their income levels so that they can live in healthy houses.
RISK REDUCTION AND DISASTER PLANNING
We will create easily accessible and safe areas wherever earthquake risk exists.
We will prevent the misuse of these areas.
In settlements with high risk of natural disasters, we will prepare measures to be taken against disasters and post-disaster response planning together with local governments.
We will create both national and local platforms for risk mitigation decisions to be taken together with citizens living in areas under risk.
We will prepare avoidance plans together with municipalities to reduce risks.
We will accelerate urban transformation by increasing resources in disaster-prone areas.
URBAN TRANSFORMATION
We will put an end to rent-centered big projects in urban transformation.
We will use the resources allocated to these projects in transformation and retrofitting projects to eliminate earthquake risk.
We will give the authority for urban transformation to local governments.
We will ensure public participation in all decision-making processes.
We will prioritize in-situ transformation models for minimum displacement in urban transformation.
We will develop financial systems to compensate for losses when displacement is unavoidable.
We will create an Urban Transformation Fund with resources allocated from the taxes of our citizens living in the regions where urban transformation will be realized.
We will use tools such as Project Partnership Share and Transfer of Development Rights to support this fund.
We will carry out retrofitting and reconstruction projects in cities with high risk of earthquakes and natural disasters, especially in Istanbul.
We will ensure that public banks provide resources for these projects.
AN ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY LIFE
The Republican People's Party addresses the relationship between human beings and nature within the framework of the concept of natural rights.
Nature in all its forms has the right to exist and renew itself.
The human right to life and to a better quality of life is based on these rights.
Within the framework of this understanding, CHP rejects policies that see nature as the property of human beings and consume natural resources in an unlimited and irresponsible manner.
It recognizes the protection of nature and the fight against environmental problems as the duty of all people.
This duty is a requirement of our principle of social justice as well as the right to life.
One of the prerequisites for building a more just and equal society is to protect nature and ensure green justice.
CLIMATE CHANGE
One of the biggest problems facing the world today is climate change.
Turkey is among the countries that will be most affected by climate change.
In the current century, a temperature increase of 5 to 7 degrees Celsius and a decrease of up to 20% in average precipitation is expected in our country.
The intensity and frequency of extreme climate events such as droughts and floods are projected to increase.
Under AKP rule, it is clear that our country has failed in the fight against climate change.
Energy intensity and fossil fuel use have increased in the last 15 years.
The necessary infrastructure to combat extreme climate events has not been put in place.
Disasters have been tried to be passed over with fatalistic discourses.
With policies that support uncontrolled population growth, the negative impacts of climate change on our country are increasing.
NATURE MASSACRE
AKP has not only failed in the fight against climate change, but has also carried out massacres of nature directly by the public sector, through public-private partnerships or by paving the way for the private sector.
AKP policies in construction, mining, energy, transportation, industry and agriculture have caused irreversible damage to ecosystems.
Our natural resources have been plundered and looted by a narrow coterie close to the government.
The AKP harms vulnerable groups with excessive consumption of resources and disregards our responsibilities towards future generations.
GREEN ECONOMY BREAKTHROUGH
The CHP rejects a purely quantitative and consumption-oriented approach to economic growth, and instead adopts a qualified and egalitarian growth approach.
Our Party sees environmentally friendly policies not as an obstacle to growth, but as an opportunity for rapid and lasting growth.
By investing in low-carbon sectors and green technologies, CHP will realize a sustainable growth model, creating
new business areas and large employment opportunities.
It will prioritize investment in renewable energy sources, energy-saving materials and technologies.
CHP will pay attention not only to the use of our resources within the framework of sustainability and efficiency principles, but also to their fair and equitable sharing.
As CHP, in the fight against climate change, we will first implement an awareness project that will explain to all our citizens that the problem is real, concrete and urgent.
On the one hand, we will restructure public policies in line with the fight against climate change, while on the other hand, we will constitutionally guarantee the regulation of the private sector.
We will make judicial oversight effective, particularly in Environmental Impact Assessment and Social Impact Assessment processes.
In the fight against climate change, we will act in cooperation with all the countries of the world that are pioneers in this field.
We have identified farmers, agricultural workers, fishermen and fishermen who are not responsible for climate change but are most affected by its consequences.
We will implement policies to protect those who lack access to safe food.
We will protect our forests, pastures, water resources, seas and lakes.
We will catch up with EU standards in the field of animal rights and take measures to protect and develop wildlife.
To protect our biodiversity and endemic species, we will establish specialized institutes and diversity banks.
We will fight erosion effectively.
We will increase the containment rate to 25% in 5 years.
In order to ensure food security, in addition to the support we will provide to agriculture, we will make technological investments in this field and establish inspection and protection mechanisms.
CONSTITUTION AND LEGISLATION
We will draft an Ecological Constitution that embodies the principle of immediate protection and restoration.
We will analyze the impacts, vulnerabilities and risks of climate change in Turkey and develop adaptation strategies accordingly.
We will reorganize VAT rates taking into account climate policies.
We will implement restrictive regulations to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
In environmental lawsuits, we will not charge court fees, and we will cover expert witness fees through the Treasury.
We will not allow the transfer of the right to use water that belongs to the public, and we will enact a Water Law regulating the right to water.
We will make the user and polluter pay for environmental pollution.
We will not let paying the price become a permanent right to pollute.
NATURAL RESOURCES
We will adopt the approach that we are part of nature, not its owner.
We will prevent the transformation of our natural resources into a commercial rent-seeking area through irregularities and political expediency.
We will implement long-term projects for the effective protection of water resources.
To protect our water resources, we will transfer funds to municipalities that do not have wastewater treatment plants.
We will not carry out mining and hydroelectric power plants in internationally protected areas.
We will provide the necessary resources to fight erosion.
SUSTAINABLE ENERGY
We will increase energy efficiency and reduce foreign dependency by realizing sustainable energy potential using environmentally friendly technologies.
We will promote energy and carbon efficient practices and products.
We will use our energy resources for the benefit of society with the highest efficiency without harming nature.
We will support practices that ensure savings in individual and public energy use and put an end to waste.
To tackle the problem of carbon emissions, we will promote a culture of public transportation, including maritime and railways.
We will abolish all taxes, including VAT and SCT, on transportation vehicles using electric energy.
LIVING IN HARMONY WITH NATURE
We will prioritize measures to reduce air pollution.
In cities with natural gas infrastructure, we will prioritize natural gas over coal in fuel aid.
We will abolish the permanent daylight saving time to make more use of daylight and save energy.
ANIMAL RIGHTS
We will prevent the mistreatment of animals by introducing deterrent criminal laws.
We will prevent the production, trafficking and informal sale of wild animals.
We will effectively protect damaged natural habitats and species in danger of extinction.
We will remove legal obstacles for district municipalities in metropolitan areas to open animal shelters.
We will oblige municipalities with a population over 100 thousand to open animal shelters.
We will provide infrastructure services to private animal shelters free of charge and support all shelters to improve their quality.
WASTE AND RECYCLING PRACTICES
We will support scientific studies that will enable the use of waste agricultural products as raw materials for energy production.
We will add dewatering plants to sugar factories to produce biofuels.
We will create incentive programs to promote the use of biofuels.
We will gather industrial facilities in Organized Industrial Zones with the latest waste treatment and filtration systems.
We will promote recycling practices through incentives and measures.
AUDIT
We will pursue public interest in EIA inspections and reports.
We will ensure that EIA reports are prepared by experts in a transparent manner, with environmental protection awareness and concern.
We will ensure that a comprehensive SIA is conducted alongside the EIA.
We will regulate the participation of civil society organizations in auditing and reporting processes in line with the EU acquis.
ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY PRODUCTION
We will encourage agricultural production in accordance with ecological conditions and soil characteristics.
We will develop an adaptation strategy against the impacts of climate change in the agriculture sector.
We will put population movements based on a return to nature and ecological family farming at the center of our agriculture, nature and social policies.
We will make pastures no longer private property.
We will review the Akkuyu and Sinop nuclear power plant projects and cancel them if possible in line with international obligations.
NEW MINISTRIES, INSTITUTIONS AND BOARDS
MINISTRIES
Ministry of Human Resources: We will establish a Ministry of Human Resources to support the Ministry of Education's policies and manage lifelong technical skills and learning.
We will ensure coordination between education and labor demand through the Ministry of Human Resources.
Ministry of Women It will be established to ensure equality between women and men in social life.
Ministry of Tradesmen: We will ensure that the problems of artisans and craftsmen have a large place in politics.
INSTITUTIONS
Human Development Strategies and Information Policies Authority: It will be established to plan Turkey's production capacity and human resources in the medium and long term.
Family Insurance Agency (ASKUR): An institution that will employ experts to conduct poverty inventories, carry out social policies and provide counseling to all families within the scope of Family Insurance.
BOARDS
Final Accounts Commission: It will be established for effective oversight of the budget by the Parliament.
Political Ethics Board: We will enact a Political Ethics Law and establish a Political Ethics Board to oversee whether politicians abide by the rules of political ethics.
Judicial Ethics Board: We will ensure that judges and prosecutors work within the framework of ethical rules with this board consisting of members of the judiciary for a reliable judiciary.
Higher Education Coordination and Planning Board: It will only carry out planning and coordination duties and will not interfere with the autonomy of universities.
High Council of Martyrs' Relatives and Veterans: It will coordinate the solution of the problems of martyrs' relatives, veterans and veterans' relatives.
Consumer Rights Supreme Council: We will ensure full implementation of the UN Universal Declaration of Consumer Rights and the Law on the Protection of Consumer Rights.
Supreme Council for the Arts: It will be established to support artistic activities, ensure the autonomy of art institutions and coordination between institutions.
REGIONAL ORGANIZATIONS
Organization for Middle East Peace and Cooperation (OBIT): A regional cooperation organization will be established with Turkey, Iraq, Iran and Syria as founding members to promote peace, brotherhood and trade in the Middle East.
INSTITUTES
Urban Institutes: New knowledge and skills for adults.
Trade Union Schools: It will be established to increase the interest of young people who will enter the working life in trade union life.
Turkish Design Institute: It will be established to make the Turkish Design Advisory Council effective.
OTHER
Judicial Law Enforcement Organization: It will work directly under the judiciary.
Union of Mukhtars of Turkey: It will be established for the personal rights, coordination and other services to facilitate the duties of mukhtars.
Digital Transformation Centers: With the steps we will take towards digitalization, we will ensure the spread of digital technologies among our SMEs by creating environments to develop innovation and collaborations.
