Our call is to prevent the unions formed on the axis of spiritual values from being under the tutelage of global politics.
and those who do not consent to the waste of values created in good faith.
Our call is to those who are disturbed by the fact that in the name of tolerance, dialogue and tolerance, the ground is being prepared for the invasion of our world of faith by missionaries.
Our call is to those who invest and produce, and who want to be paid for what they produce.
Our call is for those who work, produce and want to be fairly compensated for their labor.
Our call is to those who believe in the virtue of democracy.
Turkey, which we will call out to every individual, every household and every region with the discourse of "Give Voice Turkey", will not leave this call unanswered by standing up,
will surely give voice to the voice of common sense.
The Nationalist Movement is the voice of the national conscience.
We have no doubt that Turkey will listen to this voice.
Our Election Declaration, which is titled "The Contract of Turkey as a Rising Country Towards 2023", is presented to the evaluation of the Great Turkish Nation as the promise and deed of the Nationalist Movement Party in line with the goal of making Turkey a leader in its region and a global power center.
Effort and work is from us, appreciation and support is from our beloved nation, help and protection is from Allah Almighty.
Devlet BAHÇELİ Chairman of the Nationalist Movement Party
Almighty Turkish Nation; The goal of the Nationalist Movement, which will realize the greatest alliance with the beloved Turkish nation in the elections, is to come to power alone.
As MHP, we are ready.
We call on the Turkish nation to walk together to a bright future under the sole power of the Nationalist Movement.
Our call is for all countrymen who have taken part in every stage of the 42-year blessed struggle of the nationalist movement, who have contributed and served the cause, who live the values of the nation in their essence and will keep them alive forever.
Our call is to those who share the same feelings, sensitivities and concerns with the MHP in the common denominator of love for the homeland and the nation and the honorable and peaceful future of Turkey.
Our call is to those who want to leave an honorable and strong Turkey to future generations.
Our call is to all patriots who are sensitive to Turkey's unity, vitality and future.
Our call is to those who never compromise on the understanding of "one homeland, one flag, one nation, one state, one language".
We call for a society where individual rights can be fully exercised,
Those who prefer to live "full and free" in a prosperous Turkey where fundamental rights are guaranteed to those who prefer to be "divided and fed to global powers".
Our call is to those who think that the fundamental qualities of the Republic, the greatest work of the great leader Atatürk, are being eroded,
those who are concerned about political tutelage dominating all areas and those who are worried about a "civilian dictatorship".
Our call is to those whose path is the path of Ahmet Yesevi, Mevlana, Yunus Emre and Hacı Bektaşi Veli.
Our call is to those who want full freedom of religion and conscience to be established without abuse,
those who believe and desire to live as they believe.
Our call is to those who say no politics in mosques, schools and barracks.
The first years of the 21st century, when the wind of globalization collapsed half-century-old alliances, dizzyingly fast-developing technology became decisive on the way of governing, consuming and living, global capital reached unlimited mobility, and efforts to reshape the world order on the axis of multidimensional partnerships continued, have been a period in which instability, instability and uncertainty prevailed in our country, and politics without identity and personality came to the fore.
The first years of the 21st century were a period in which efforts to reshape the world order continued.
Promotion and development of democracy on the grounds of the common welfare and happiness of humanity,
the rule of law to prevail,
Although globalization is said to offer opportunities in terms of securing fundamental rights and freedoms;
This process has become synonymous with problems such as international terrorism, migration, ethnic conflicts, civil unrest, regional conflicts, double standards in violation of international law, hunger and impoverishment, the growing gap between rich and poor countries, and environmental disasters.
Instead of providing opportunities, globalization has led to terrorism, ethnic conflict, double standards, hunger and poverty.
In this process, the sovereign powers, whose basic strategies are determined by global capital, have endeavored to expand their own networks of privilege by trying to ignore or eliminate national and humanitarian sensitivities and rules as much as possible.
In doing so, they have used non-governmental civil society organizations, ethnic and religious elements as the most important tools or actors of cooperation in the targeted countries by claiming to be the flagship of "human rights".
Global dominant powers have used civil society organizations, ethnic and religious elements to achieve their goals.
Acting with the superiority provided by technological and economic dominance, global powers have turned to threaten the national state structure by scratching ethnic identities and weakening national identity.
In the face of global aggression, societies whose minimum commonalities have weakened, who are unable to form a harmonious social cohesion, and who are unable to produce common decisions and solutions have faced the loss of their national strongholds of resistance one by one.
In the target countries, the national state structure is threatened and strongholds of national resistance are destroyed.
Especially in regions with ethnic and religious fragility, tyranny in the name of democracy, injustice and murder in the name of the rule of law,
torture and cruel behavior in the name of human rights have been seen to prevail; the
formation of fragmented structures with multiple identities, multiple cultures, multiple languages and multiple laws has been triggered and fueled by creating a chaotic and confrontational environment by disrupting public order in the target countries.
The Nationalist Movement Party is aware of the threat these developments pose to Turkey.
The Nationalist Movement Party is aware of how these developments threaten the world and Turkey, which is located in the most strategic region of the world.
In the past forty-two years that we have been on the political scene, just as we have demonstrated our decisive stance by foreseeing the developments that threaten Turkey and humanity at a time when no one could perceive them yet, today we see what kind of fate the global threat is dragging our country and humanity to.
and we are developing our national attitude and policies against it.
Our Party believes that the globalization process must be brought into a fair and humane channel.
From this point of view, our party believes that the globalization process can be put into a fair and humane channel; ensuring a sustainable competitive environment among countries,
the use of the world's blessings and technological opportunities to serve the common future of all humanity,
guaranteeing people's fundamental rights and freedoms,
It believes that cooperation based on mutual respect, tolerance and understanding, instead of the seeds of hatred and hatred that are being sown between cultures and civilizations, can be possible.
In today's world, where a new world order is taking shape, the ideal of a world where the Turkish nation and all humanity will live humanely in peace and happiness can only be realized through the realization of a new civilization project centered in Turkey.
Turkey will be the center of attraction and attraction of the Turkish and Islamic world with its natural, historical, cultural, human and cultural values and resources.
A new civilization project centered on Turkey will be the hope of humanity.
Turkey's dignified stance with its riches and deep-rooted state experience will ensure that it will always be respected and become a leader in its region.
With its riches and deep-rooted state experience, Turkey will become a global playmaker.
If Turkey achieves a strong economic structure, has a
modern, deterrent security force with high technological capacity, is
governed with justice, strengthens its social fabric,
develops a culture of brotherhood and solidarity, and mobilizes its means and capabilities in line with its goal of becoming a leading country, it will go beyond being a regional power and become a global playmaker or spoiler.
Turkey will not remain indifferent to developments in its near and far neighborhood.
In this context, Turkey's geo-strategic position, historical obligations, economic, social and political interests reveal the fact that Turkey cannot remain indifferent to developments to its east, west, south and north.
Turkey must put itself at the center and have a say in all economic, social and political developments in its immediate and distant neighborhood.
At the heart of the Nationalist Movement Party's view of the issues and the ideas and action plan it envisages for solutions is a vision that addresses the Turkish nation from national, spiritual and humanitarian perspectives;
Turkish Nationalism, which aims for love, justice, peace and secure development.
At the heart of our approach to issues is the understanding of Turkish Nationalism.
With this understanding, the Nationalist Movement Party, which draws its strength from sacred scripture, beliefs, principles and the Turkish nation, will fight to the end, even if alone, against any development that it believes is not for the good of Turkey.
Taking the national and spiritual values of the Turkish nation as a reference and representing the social center in politics, MHP; To ensure the welfare and happiness of our nation
and is committed to making the Republic of Turkey "a strong and leading country in all respects in the regional and global plan".
Taking the values of the nation as a reference, the MHP represents the social center in politics.
B - "RISING COUNTRY TURKEY TOWARDS 2023" VISION
The Nationalist Movement Party, which draws its strength from the nation and accepts service to the nation through politics as the basis of its existence, aims to realize the Leader Country Turkey by coming to power alone with the favor of our citizens.
Drawing its strength from the nation, the MHP considers service to the nation through politics as the essence of its existence.
Turkey; its historical and cultural background,
young and dynamic population,
enterprise capability,
internalize democratic values,
rule of law
and human rights,
secularism that guarantees freedom of religion and conscience,
geo-strategic position, deterrence and a defense system with high technology capability,
It represents rising values in its region in terms of its natural and human resources.
The MHP's vision of "Rising Country Turkey Towards 2023" is based on these realities of our country.
In the MHP government, Turkey will be built as a Leader Country, a power center in the regional and global plan.
Turkey will be built as a Leader Country, a power center in the regional and global plan, by mobilizing the potential to make a breakthrough and rise by using the opportunities.
In the next 12 years, when the Nationalist Movement Party will be in power alone, Turkey, which represents a rising power with its possibilities and capabilities, will be able to seize opportunities, eliminate threats and
Turkey will become one of the important actors in the community of nations and a country whose friendship is sought.
A Turkey that has achieved economic growth, social development and national integration within political stability will become one of the major actors in the community of nations in political, military, economic and social terms at the end of this period in which the development move will be realized.
Turkey's millennia-old traditions, national and spiritual values, the achievements of the Republic, and the opportunities offered by its geo-strategic location will enable it to become a strong and friendly power on a regional and global scale.
National integrity and brotherhood law will be strengthened and the determination to walk together into the future will be ensured.
In order to realize Turkey's goal of becoming a leading country in the 21st century, first of all, it will be ensured that all social segments have the determination and determination to walk together to the future in a common understanding and solidarity on the axis of common values such as history, religion and culture.
In order to build the future together, national integrity and fraternity law will be strengthened by creating a basis for dialogue and unity among layers of government, social segments, political actors and citizens in economic, social and political fields.
Social reconciliation on the axis of fundamental national and human values, national ideals and goals will make it possible for Turkey to reach consensus on fundamental issues
and facilitate the implementation of future plans and programs in cooperation.
Social consensus will be achieved on the axis of national ideals and goals, and Turkey will be directed towards great goals.
The Nationalist Movement Party aims for Turkey to move towards great goals with the broadest social consensus and
envisages the mobilization of all its means, resources and capabilities towards the goal of becoming a regional and global power.
Turkey will take the initiative for regional cooperation initiatives.
On the other hand, in this period, Turkey will take the initiative to create effective associations based on economic and political cooperation in the region and will take the necessary institutional, legal and political steps....
Countries that will take part in the cooperation projects to be built under Turkey's leadership; raising democratic standards,
increasing prosperity,
guaranteeing human rights and freedoms,
to make justice prevail,
the establishment of peace and tranquility,
the elimination of conflicts and tensions,
poverty eradication will gain strength
and the people living in this geography will share with the Turkish people the honor and pride of benefiting from modern blessings.
In countries acting together with Turkey, democratic standards will rise,
prosperity will increase, and
a climate of peace and tranquility will prevail.
Within the framework of a "new civilization and a new world" approach, our view of the world and humanity will be shaped by an understanding of Ahmet Yesevi, Mevlana, Yunus Emre and Hacı Bektaşi Veli, which is a synthesis of the human-centered material and immaterial realm of existence.
Adopting the universal and humanitarian criteria that Turkey has made dominant in state and human life
and the countries that aspire to be under its umbrella of peace will gain strength from this unity.
Our approach to a new civilization and a new world is based on a human-centered understanding.
C - TOWARDS GLOBAL POWER TURKEY UNDER MHP'S RULE
The way to have a say in the dynamics of the new era we are in is to be a nation with a strong national identity and self-confidence.
The MHP's political mission is to establish a new civilization and a new world centered on Turkey.
The ideal of a world in which the Turkish nation and all humanity will live in peace and happiness is possible through the realization of a new civilization project centered in Turkey.
The MHP has adopted the concept of establishing a new civilization and a new world centered on Turkey as a political mission.
This mission will make Turkey a leading country and
ensure that all oppressed nations, especially those in Eurasia, live in freedom and dignity.
The condition for achieving this is first of all for Turkey to get rid of the surrenderist mood
and turn towards the values that represent the essence of the Turkish Nation.
Under the MHP government, the values that represent the essence of the Turkish Nation will be focused on.
Reconciled with its own national and historical values and capable of solving problems,
established an effective state order,
implemented a national economic model that would mobilize the country's resources
A strong Turkey with a respected position in the global system will have a say in world politics and economic life in the 21st century.
MHP will make Turkey a voice in world politics and economy.
Within the framework of our vision of Turkey as a Rising Country, Turkey is envisaged to achieve the following main goals by 2023 The democratic rule of law will be made operational
and the standard of democracy will be raised.
Clean society and clean politics will prevail and
corruption and corruption will be eradicated.
To make a truly democratic state of law function in all its aspects,
- To achieve high standards of democracy, - To guarantee the
independence of the judiciary and the rule of law,
- To raise rights and freedoms to world standards,
- To make clean society-clean politics dominant,
- To establish political morality, - To
eradicate corruption and corruption, - To
be a peaceful and secure country at home and an honorable and respected country abroad, - To
ensure economic and technological development,
- To raise production capacity, industrial and energy infrastructure above world standards, - To go
beyond being self-sufficient in agriculture and become capable of selling processed agricultural products with high added value to the regional and world markets,
- To ensure the registration of the informal economy and tax justice, - To
utilize natural resources at the most rational and optimum level,
- To establish a social welfare order in which our citizens will not be dependent on anyone and will live humanely,
- To eliminate injustice in income distribution,
- To establish social security and social justice with all its requirements,
- To eliminate unemployment and poverty, - To
realize a radical education reform and complete the transformation into an information society.
Poverty will be eliminated,
fair income distribution will be ensured and
social welfare order will be established.
That terrorism has been eradicated,
Turkey will be built on the axis of common national and spiritual values.
The fundamental qualities of the Republic and national and spiritual values will be removed from the field and instrument of conflict.
In a Turkey that has achieved these goals; love will have replaced animosity, embrace will have replaced separation, and
the thousand-year brotherhood law will be glorified.
Political, economic and social stability was achieved,
- Social wounds were healed and chronic problems were solved,
- Integration was achieved on the axis of common national and spiritual values,
- The political, social and cultural foundations of national unity were strengthened,
- Terrorism was eradicated,
- Socio-economic problems were solved in a radical and permanent manner, - The
fundamental qualities of the Republic and national and spiritual values have been removed from the field and tool of political and social conflict;
- A common national consciousness that transcends differences in language, religion and ethnic origin has been created; and
Turkey's becoming a global power will be realized during MHP's 12 years in power.
MHP is determined to create a Turkey that has become a global power center by 2023.
As a necessity of this, it aspires to uninterrupted and sustainable single power in stability and
appears before the citizens with programs and projects aimed at this goal.
Within the framework of this program, which covers at least 12 years, Turkey will become a global power under the MHP's sole power in the 24th, 25th and 26th legislative periods of the Turkish Grand National Assembly.
First MHP Government: A Period of Repair and Recovery
The First MHP Government will be a period of repair and recovery.
The First MHP period covering the years 2011-2015 will be a period of "repair and recovery".
The institutions and rules required for a state and social order in contemporary norms, which the rising Turkey needs to become a global power, will be established.
Bu yapılırken, AKP hükümetlerinin eseri olan anti demokratik,
vesayetçi, kayırmacı,
hukuk tanımaz,
kişi güvenliğini ihlal edici,
All kinds of works, transactions, rules and institutions that restrict freedoms will be addressed in all their elements and the corrupt order will be put an end to.
The AKP's anti-democratic
and lawless corrupt order will be ended.
Any damage caused by the AKP on state institutions and citizens will be repaired and
traumas such as fear and suspicion will be removed from society.
This is the period when the state and the nation, democracy and the republic embrace;
the crisis of trust between our citizens and the state, between institutions and between citizens themselves will be eliminated
will be a period when trust will be established in every field.
The damage caused by the AKP on state institutions and citizens will be repaired.
In this period of recovery in all respects, first of all, a constitution that is a social consensus will be drafted.
Terrorism will be completely ended and social peace and trust will be established.
The problem of unemployment and poverty will be significantly alleviated and the welfare level of our citizens will be increased.
The state organization will be restructured in a way to ensure the integrity of the state and the nation.
Democracy will be made operational with all its institutions and rules,
fundamental rights will be guaranteed and
individual freedoms will be strengthened.
A constitution that is a social consensus will be drafted.
Instead of confrontational discourse and action in politics, polarizing in society, monopolistic in the economy, nepotistic in the media, and abusive and belligerent discourse and action that has become widespread in every field; embracing,
Strengthening the effort to carry Turkey into the future together,
It will serve to establish a social structure in which moral principles prevail.
The quality of life of the society will be improved by raising the level of education and health,
income distribution will be made fair,
science-technology and innovation capability will be strengthened,
new technologies will be developed,
efficiency in transportation and infrastructure services will be increased,
transformation in economic and social structure will be realized to a large extent by protecting the environment.
The effort to carry Turkey into the future together will be strengthened and
moral principles will prevail.
At the end of this period, with an average annual growth rate of at least 7 percent and 700,000 new jobs per year, GDP will reach 1.1 trillion dollars,
per capita income will rise to 14,000 dollars,
exports will reach 200 billion dollars
and employment will reach 25.5 million people.
Annual growth will be 7 percent,
700,000 jobs will be created, and
per capita income will be 14,000 dollars.
In this period, the state's functions of regulation, supervision and inspection will be enhanced,
local governments will be strengthened in terms of services
, and civil society organizations will be supported in line with national priorities.
All public services of a high standard will be accessible and available to all.
By expanding the use of information technologies, e-culture will be established in the execution of business and transactions of the private sector, civil society, public institutions and organizations.
Public services will be accessible and available to all.
Service quality will be improved in the functioning and basic elements of the judiciary.
Within the framework of the requirements of the rule of law and the rule of law, necessary legal and administrative arrangements will be made to ensure that the judicial process operates in a fast, fair, safe and accurate manner.
By determining the conditions of protection and utilization of the natural resources of our country, unconscious use and destruction will be prevented and
environmental management systems will be established to ensure effective and efficient utilization of these resources.
An organized and highly competitive agricultural structure will be established by ensuring food security and safety and sustainable use of natural resources.
The fast, fair, safe and accurate functioning of the judicial process will be ensured.
Social security system; covering the entire population,
able to meet the changing needs of society,
financial sustainability
and quality services will be provided.
The competitiveness of Turkish entrepreneurs will be raised on a world scale.
Turkish entrepreneurs produce and sell on a world scale,
will become highly competitive entrepreneurs.
Poverty will be effectively combated by placing needy people under the full protection of the state.
Second MHP Government: A Period of Development, Integration and Breakthrough
The Second MHP period of 2015-2019 will be a period of "development, integration and breakthrough".
This will be a period in which Turkey's socio-economic problems are solved,
sustainable economic growth and social development are achieved, and
national integration and cohesion are established.
The second MHP government will be a period of development, integration and breakthrough.
In this period, Turkey will succeed in determining the basic assumptions that reveal its "desire to live together" with all its citizens and direct all its energies towards the development of Turkey.
During this period, the prestige of our country in the community of nations has increased,
It will be a period in which citizenship awareness is developed and everyone is proud to be a Turkish citizen.
All our citizens will believe in the value of living in such a country
and no one will give credence to efforts to use differences as an element of division and separation.
Citizenship awareness will be developed, differences will not be an element of division and separation.
In 2015-2019, when the technology-intensive, high value-added investments made during the first MHP government will be transformed into production, security of supply will be fully ensured by mobilizing domestic and foreign potential in strategic sectors such as energy, and
all elements of being a social welfare state will be established as a result of the steps taken towards economic growth and social development.
All elements of a social welfare state will be established.
At the end of the period, GDP will reach $1.5 trillion, with average annual growth of at least 7 percent and 700,000 new jobs per year,
per capita income to 19 thousand dollars,
exports to $300 billion
and employment will reach 28.5 million.
Mobilizing resources, using advanced technology,
creating high added value and employment,
A globally competitive production structure will be established.
In the second period, exports will reach 300 billion dollars,
GDP to reach 1.5 trillion dollars
All the elements of being an information society will be provided.
R&D and innovation activities in medium and high technology sectors
and R&D infrastructure will be prioritized.
The necessary environment for knowledge economy and innovation will be created
and emphasis will be placed on training researcher manpower.
Strengthening relations with the countries of the region through close and lasting ties and undertaking new economic and political initiatives in the region
and the established collaborations will be carried to advanced stages.
"Made in Turkey" branded products will be the most sought after products all over the world.
R&D will be emphasized and "Made in Turkey" branded products will be sought after in the world.
It will be ensured that all segments of the population of all ages benefit from modern education opportunities to the maximum extent.
In the third MHP government, Turkey will become a Leader Country, a power center in the regional and global plan.
Third MHP Government: The Period of Achieving Turkey as a Leading Country, a Power Center in Regional and Global Plans
The Third MHP period covering the years 2019-2023 will be the period of achieving the goal of "Leading Country Turkey".
2023 is the main objective of our long-term strategy, which aims to ensure that our country has the ability to perceive and evaluate the contemporary world in Turkish,
to become a "leading country" that is globally influential and one of the top 10 countries in the world in terms of economy.
Resources will be mobilized in line with the 2023 targets to become one of the world's top 10 economies.
The policies put forward by the MHP within the framework of the 2023 vision have been developed by taking into account the realities of Turkey and the world, and have high implementation capability.
The goals it envisages are achievable.
It is not difficult to mobilize the resources of our country in line with the "2023 development goals".
Turkey has this potential and the MHP has the experience, staff and will to mobilize this potential.
At the end of this period, GDP will reach 2.1 trillion dollars, with an average annual growth rate of at least 7 percent and 700 thousand new jobs per year,
per capita income to 25 thousand dollars,
exports to rise to 400 billion dollars
and employment will reach 31 million people.
Per capita income will reach 25 thousand dollars and
employment will reach 31 million people.
The Turkish army will be one of the top three most powerful armies in the world.
Turkey will become a country that can utilize the capabilities of space
and will gain the competence to produce satellite technology.
Exploit the possibilities of space and
get rid of energy dependency.
New and renewable energy resources will be utilized through the use of advanced technology, and
Turkey will not only get rid of its energy dependence but will also become one of the determining actors in the international energy market.
In 2023, Turkey will gain technological competitive advantage with the values it produces in at least three areas.
It improves people's living standards,
raising the level of prosperity,
Advanced technologies that realize quality production will be developed and put into practice.
Turkish will be one of the most widely spoken languages in the world.
Turkey will gain technological competitive advantage with the values it produces in at least three areas.
The average length of stay of the school-age population in the education system will be raised above 15 years, the
enrollment rate in secondary education will be raised to 100 percent
and the enrollment rate in higher education will be raised above 70 percent.
The number of full-time equivalent researchers per thousand people will be increased to 10, and
the ratio of R&D expenditures to GDP will be raised to 4 percent.
The fundamental rights and freedoms of the human being will be indisputably guaranteed, the
rule of law will be fully established
and no international political project in which Turkey is involved will allow the violation of these rights.
The education period will be increased to 15 years,
More resources will be allocated to R&D.
After the 2011 repair and recovery period, mobilization of existing resources, capabilities and capabilities with a strategic vision,
strengthening citizenship awareness by establishing the minimum conditions for living together and acting in common,
Integration on the axis of common values rooted in history and faith,
evaluation of the contemporary world in Turkish,
having a say in decision-making processes on a world scale
and becoming a leading country will be realized at the end of the 12-year period that will pass under the MHP's sole rule.
After 12 years of MHP rule, Turkey will have a say in global decision-making processes.
D - OUR MAIN OBJECTIVES AND VIEWS
Key Objectives
The way to serve the nation is to come to power alone through democratic elections.
Our Party, which draws its strength from the nation, aims to serve our country and our citizens, and to make peace, tranquility and brotherhood prevail in our region and in the world.
and believes that the main way to realize the ideal of "Leading Country Turkey" within the democratic order is the political institution
and in line with this goal, it aims to become "Power Alone" by winning the favor of our nation.
In the strong government of the Nationalist Movement Party; The rule of law and justice will be made dominant in every field.
Developing a culture of reconciliation, strengthening social solidarity and reinforcing brotherhood,
Guaranteeing fundamental human rights and freedoms,
To create a fair system that favors the just, not the powerful,
To make a strong, just, compassionate and humane state understanding dominant, representing the values of the nation, at the service of the nation,
Adopting a management approach based on fairness and openness
and to establish institutions and rules in line with this understanding,
To ensure that the services provided by the state are accessible to every citizen in every part of the country and that they meet modern standards,
To make level-headed, principled, honest and moral politics dominant,
To establish clean politics and clean governance by decisively and effectively combating moral pollution and corruption,
Based on a competitive market economy and free enterprise,
To create an economic order in which resources are used rationally,
Technological development,
efficiency, stable growth
and create a strong "production economy" based on providing employment,
To make the rule of law and justice prevail in every field,
- It will strengthen the principles embodied in the first three articles of the Constitution,
will be based on freedoms
and a "social contract" constitution that will raise democratic standards,
- Protecting the fundamental qualities of the Republic,
- To protect the indivisible integrity of the Republic of Turkey with its country and nation,
to preserve the unitary national state forever,
Investments; high technology based
and to establish an industrialization strategy that envisages orientation towards areas producing high value-added goods and services,
Supporting the dynamism and entrepreneurial power of the private sector,
Implementing economic and social policies in a harmonized manner in a way to protect those on low and fixed incomes,
To ensure that earnings are taxed with an understanding that will not jeopardize the sustainability of production and employment,
Becoming self-sufficient in agriculture,
to a production structure with high technology utilization capacity and high productivity,
increase the income and welfare of our farmers,
Increasing investment, production and employment by supporting small industrialists and tradesmen,
To minimize development differences between regions,
It has caught up with the age of science and technology,
to create a society of might, dignity and leadership,
to ensure the adoption of "e-lifestyle" in all aspects of life,
Ensure a fair distribution of income,
Launch a national mobilization to fight poverty, unemployment and corruption,
Developing social protection programs to ensure that needy, poor and orphaned citizens are not left hungry and exposed,
Improving working conditions of employees
and a fair wage system,
The basic needs of all its citizens, such as education, health and social security, are fully met,
To create a social order worthy of human honor and dignity,
Highly employable, educated, healthy, skilled,
having high morals and character,
He has internalized Turkish culture and values,
to raise a universally assertive youth,
To prevent cultural and moral degeneration by strengthening national and spiritual values,
To ensure that Turkish, one of the indispensable elements of our national identity, becomes a common language of culture and science used and understood throughout the Turkic World,
It will stop the phenomenon of unconscious and uncontrolled migration,
Developing projects to promote living in place,
To establish an environment of peace and security by putting an end to all forms of terrorism and anarchy,
To make environmental conditions habitable by continuously improving them,
To conduct a Turkey-centered and multifaceted foreign policy that takes into account Turkey's geo-strategic position, evaluates developments and problems within the framework of a realistic, mutually beneficial national strategy that has a say in the formulation of political, social and economic policies on a global scale,
To develop regional and global cooperation programs in line with Turkey's history, culture, underground and aboveground riches, human-military-economic capacity and geopolitical advantages,
Making Turkey a regional and global power,
Within the framework of the Rising Country Turkey vision, to make our country a global power with contemporary values, globally influential and one of the world's top 10 countries in the economy in 2023,
A fair system will be created that favors the just, not the powerful.
Level-headed, principled and honest politics will prevail and clean politics and clean governance will be established.
A "production economy" based on technological development, stable growth and employment will be established.
The dynamism and entrepreneurial power of the private sector will be supported.
Economic and social policies will favor those on low and fixed incomes.
Poverty, unemployment
and a national mobilization will be launched to fight corruption.
Working conditions of employees will be improved and
a fair wage system will be established.
A social order worthy of human dignity and honor will be established.
Terror and anarchy will be put an end to and an
environment of peace and security will be established.
It constitutes our main goals on the way to serve the Turkish nation.
A Turkey-centered and multilateral foreign policy will be implemented.
We believe in the importance of institutionalizing democracy as the regime in which the nation is best represented.
Key Opinions
He sees politics as a way of developing policies to ensure the peace and welfare of the nation,
for this purpose, the provision of state services in accordance with the expectations of citizens,
We envisage that institutions and rules will be shaped according to this understanding.
Democracy, the regime in which the nation is best represented in state administration;
the rule of law,
as a system in which human rights and freedoms are guaranteed in the broadest sense
and we believe in the vital importance of institutionalizing democracy.
Our Party, which conducts politics with an understanding that prioritizes democratic political culture, reconciliation and responsibility, will lead this understanding to dominate Turkish political life.
Democratic political culture will be pioneered to dominate political life.
Respect citizens' beliefs,
We see an understanding of secularism based on freedom of religion and conscience as the guarantee of national unity and integrity.
We see secularism, which is based on freedom of religion and conscience, as the guarantee of national unity.
Our understanding of nationalism, which takes shape by drawing inspiration from the history, culture, traditions and belief world of the Turkish nation, means making the existence of the national and spiritual values of the Turkish nation meaningful and continuous in the line extending from tradition to the future.
The principle of "live and let live", which constitutes the spiritual basis of our understanding of nationalism, means that our values, which have been filtered through the sieve of history and are the source of life of our nation, give meaning to our lives in a way that encompasses our whole self, and that
this treasure of values, which is enriched and institutionalized by living, is passed on to future generations.
Our nationalism means making sense of and perpetuating national and spiritual values.
The Nationalist Movement Party adopts an ethical approach that aims to establish love, tolerance and justice in human relations.
In order for this understanding to prevail in all segments of society with all its institutions and rules, we advocate the implementation of moral principles and standards that will prevent the corruption trend spreading in every field.
Peace and tranquility by developing a culture of social solidarity and reconciliation
and the realization of total development in prosperity.
We advocate the unification of our nation on the axis of common values.
We advocate the integration of the social center representing the basic sensitivities of our nation on the axis of common values.
With an understanding based on the integration of rich common values instead of the separativeness of artificial differences that have no depth on the basis of history, culture and belief,
We consider the mobilization of our economic and social accumulations towards common goals as a guarantee of our national unity and integrity.
No person or institution will be above the law.
We consider the rule of law as recognizing, acknowledging and guaranteeing the supreme value of human beings and their fundamental rights, rather than a legality that ensures order within a democratic system.
Based on the fact that no person or institution can be above the law, we see the law as the guarantee of the fundamental qualities of the Republic.
Principled, level and clean politics will be the guarantee of democracy.
We believe that a healthy democracy can only rise on the ground of a political culture adorned with moral values such as tolerance, honesty, consistency and sincerity
, and we see principled, level-headed and clean politics as the guarantee of democracy.
Preventing political corruption that undermines public confidence in democracy and the state;
We argue that it is only possible to make an understanding with national, moral and social sensitivity dominant.
That every human being has inviolable, inalienable and inalienable fundamental rights and freedoms;
the sanctity of the authority and freedom to exercise these rights,
We believe that it is indispensable to protect them from all forms of abuse, to guarantee them and to make them operational.
The inviolability of fundamental rights and freedoms
and we believe in the sanctity of its use.
To realize a fair and balanced distribution of income,
to keep the national sensitivities of society alive,
We aim to glorify good qualities such as renunciation and sacrifice as opposed to selfishness and indifference, and we envision the consolidation of social peace by developing a culture of solidarity.
We envision consolidating social peace by developing a culture of solidarity.
Embedding a quality and results-oriented management culture in government,
a transparent, participatory, accountable, protective and coordinating approach based on public trust and aiming to gain the trust of the public
and administrative procedures to address them.
A transparent, participatory, accountable and protective governance approach will be established.
Free enterprise is essential,
production is encouraged,
It advocates a competitive and equitable economic policy that favors narrow and fixed incomes,
In order for Turkish entrepreneurs to have a say in the world economy, we attach strategic importance to Turkish companies and brands gaining global competitiveness.
Rapid creation of an information society infrastructure,
the implementation of policies that will enable the production, utilization and export of knowledge and technology
and we envisage raising public awareness in this direction.
In foreign policy, we aim to enrich social, economic and political relations on the basis of political equality, in line with the principle of reciprocity and the observance of national interests, with the understanding of an effective and respected state.
Information society infrastructure will be established, and
production, utilization and export of information and technology will be ensured.
The Nationalist Movement Party embraces every human being as a sacred being and trust
and wants to achieve the goal of "Leading Country Turkey" within a heart mobilization approach by winning their hearts, love and respect.
We consider it a conscientious responsibility to contribute to peace at home and in the world.
Our Party accepts this understanding as a conscientious responsibility that will contribute to peace at home and in the world, and believes that this goal can be achieved more rapidly if the common attitude to be determined for the ideal of carrying Turkey into the future and the desire to realize it find a place in all hearts.
E - OUR UNDERSTANDING OF FUNDAMENTAL RIGHTS AND DEMOCRACY
Guaranteeing fundamental rights
Guaranteeing fundamental rights is the foundation of freedom, justice and peace.
The protection and development of the inviolable, inalienable, inalienable and inalienable fundamental rights and freedoms of human beings, especially the right to life, is one of the primary duties of the State, and the
recognition and guarantee of these rights and freedoms is the basis of freedom, justice and peace.
We argue that restrictions cannot be imposed on the exercise of fundamental rights and freedoms, provided that they do not pose a threat to national security, the fundamental characteristics of the Republic, the indivisible integrity of the state with its territory and nation, public order, public morality, public health and the exercise of fundamental rights by others.
Personal Immunity
Our Party is strongly opposed to all forms of torture and persecution, inhuman and degrading behaviors and practices,
that everyone has the right to life, to the protection and improvement of his material and spiritual existence, and that every individual has the right to personal liberty and security
and believes that his life must be safeguarded.
We strongly oppose torture, persecution and inhumane behavior and practices.
Freedom of thought and opinion
We defend the freedom to express one's opinion and to live as one believes.
Our understanding of freedom of thought and opinion is based on the principle that everyone has the freedom of thought and opinion, the freedom to express their thoughts and opinions and to live as they believe, provided that this freedom does not harm national unity and integrity, public interest and public morality.
Privacy and inviolability of private life
The Nationalist Movement Party believes that the privacy of private and family life cannot be violated,
considers the right to demand respect for private and family life as a fundamental human right
and believes that no one's residence can be entered without a duly obtained judge's decision in cases determined by law, with the acceptance that the inviolability of housing is essential.
Privacy of private and family life shall be inviolable.
That freedom of communication is a fundamental human right,
cannot be obstructed and confidentiality cannot be violated.
Freedom of religion and conscience
Everyone has the right to freedom of conscience, religious belief and opinion.
Freedom of religion and conscience in public and state life,
that people should not be condemned for their beliefs and worship,
not to be criticized,
not to be looked down upon,
freedom of religion and conscience shall not be suppressed on any grounds whatsoever
and not to be restricted by unlawful means constitutes the essence of our understanding of freedom of religion and conscience.
Everyone has the right to freedom of conscience, religious belief and opinion and cannot be restricted by unlawful means.
Right to education and training
Our Party believes that everyone has the right to education and training
and that this right cannot be denied in any way whatsoever,
believes that education and training should be carried out under the supervision and control of the state.
It is essential that the language of instruction at all levels of education be Turkish.
Everyone has the right to education and this right cannot be denied.
The language of education is Turkish.
Right to freedom of association, assembly and demonstration
The Nationalist Movement Party believes that it is essential to exercise the right to organize, assemble and demonstrate in accordance with its essence, provided that it is not contrary to the fundamental principles of the Republic, national security and public order.
Women's and children's rights
Discrimination against women,
We are against the abuse of women and children.
Our Party opposes all forms of de facto and de jure discrimination against women.
and women stand up against the abuse of women,
standing up against familial abuse,
The Convention recognizes the need to protect children against all forms of abuse and violation of their rights, including by their families.
Free and independent media
No restrictions on the press, broadcasting and other means of communication, provided that they do not contradict the indivisible integrity of the State with its country and nation, the fundamental principles of the Republic, national security and public order,
We believe that it should not be censored and should be free.
No censorship of the means of communication,
We believe that press ethics should be developed and institutionalized.
However, the right of correction and reply shall be subject to the right to protect the dignity and honor of individuals.
and the development and institutionalization of press and broadcasting ethics, including issues such as not publishing untruths,
In this regard, we consider it necessary to ensure professional and public scrutiny.
The Nationalist Movement Party is in favor of legal arrangements to ensure that the media, one of the indispensable elements of democracy, acts in accordance with ethical principles and standards,
It also envisages that the media should ensure its own self-regulation.
Everyone is equal before the law,
has the freedom to seek justice and the right to a fair trial.
Freedom to claim rights and equality before the law
That everyone has the right to a fair trial before the judicial authorities by the use of legitimate means and remedies,
We believe that no action or procedure can be excluded from judicial review.
In accordance with the principle of equality of all before the law, our party calls for the lifting of all immunities under our constitution and laws,
It considers it necessary for everyone to have the freedom to seek justice.
Democracy, the rule of law,
human dignity;
guarantees freedom of opinion, enterprise, religion and conscience.
Understanding democracy
Rule of law,
human honor and dignity;
As a guarantee of freedom of opinion, enterprise, religion and conscience, democracy is not just a political regime,
Our Party considers democracy as a way of life and believes in the necessity of operating democracy with all its institutions and rules in social and political relations.
That a national and democratic Constitution is based on as broad a consensus as possible,
to include general protection provisions rather than general limitation provisions
and freedoms.
Nation and National Will
The sole owner of sovereignty is the nation.
In parliamentary democracies, the nation is the sole holder of sovereignty,
that the legitimacy of political powers is based on the national will,
We believe that the Grand National Assembly of Turkey is the place where the national will is manifested.
We consider any outside interference in the constitutional powers of parliament illegitimate.
Our party believes that any external interference in the democratic regime and the constitutional powers of the parliament is illegitimate and unacceptable
and the Grand National Assembly of Turkey; the founding principles of the state,
The common values of the Turkish nation,
Turkey's peace and brotherhood,
The dignity and powers of Parliament
and believes that the ethics of politics must be upheld under all circumstances.
The principle of separation of powers
Considering the principle of separation of powers as the source of vitality and life insurance of the democratic state of law, MHP believes that the duties and powers of the legislature, executive and judiciary, which are the three basic functions of the state, should be balanced in the most rational way.
and their harmonized execution.
The principle of separation of powers is the source of life and the life insurance of the democratic state of law.
Our Party believes that the problems that arise in the axis of excess and conflict of powers between the powers can be resolved by everyone acting within the limits of their duties and powers arising from the Constitution,
considers the vital importance of the independence of the judiciary and the constitutional judiciary for the democratic regime above all kinds of discussions, and
defends that no body can exercise an authority that does not derive its source from the Constitution.
No body may exercise a power that does not derive its source from the Constitution.
Understanding of politics
We believe that a political understanding that recognizes Turkey's national and spiritual values as the common denominator must be made dominant.
That politics is based on a moral foundation,
democratic maturity and a culture of consensus will prevail,
where extremes are honed,
We believe that political views that do not see separatism, terrorism and violence as political goals and tools can become parties.
The Nationalist Movement Party supports the right of every political opinion to become a party and to express their views on democratic platforms while remaining within the Constitutional framework, provided that they do not target the indivisible integrity of the state with its country and nation and do not consider terrorism and violence as political aims and tools,
and the freedom to defend and disseminate it.
Believing that political parties can only be dissolved by the Turkish nation and through the ballot box, the Nationalist Movement Party opposes the dissolution of political parties, except for those parties that see and support terrorism and violence as political aims and means, and
envisages the principle of individual responsibility instead of party dissolution.
Political parties can only be dissolved at the ballot box.
We believe that parliamentary immunity should be based on reasonable principles acceptable to the public conscience and that immunity for matters other than legislative and oversight activities within the Grand National Assembly of Turkey should be abolished.
Good governance
Parliamentary immunity will be abolished except for legislative and oversight activities.
With an understanding based on citizen satisfaction, our Party considers the closest, fast and effective delivery of public services to the citizen within the framework of the principles of openness, participation and accountability as essential, and
considers obtaining information, applying for legal remedies and showing ways to seek rights as a requirement of governance close to the citizen.
Within the framework of the accountability approach, we consider it important for the administration to continuously inform the public in order to establish citizens' trust in the state.
Governance based on citizen satisfaction will be established.
Civil society and participation
In order to strengthen a well-functioning civil society structure in our country, the Nationalist Movement Party envisages the participation of citizens in the supervision of public services by civil organizations in which citizens will take part with the responsibility of being individuals.
It will be essential for civil society organizations to play an active role in public life, provided that they operate in accordance with the country's legal order, values, traditions, unitary structure and public order.
It will be essential for civil organizations to play an active role in public life.
By ensuring the development and prominence of foundations and civil society organizations in public life, social needs will be better met,
public oversight will be made more effective
and public support will be provided.
Making ethical rules prevail
A decisive and effective fight against moral pollution and corruption, which threaten the existence of the democratic system and undermine trust in state institutions, is a requirement of our "clean politics-clean governance" approach.
The Nationalist Movement Party considers the fight against corruption as one of the fundamental elements of its political approach.
The fight against corruption will be a fundamental element of our understanding of politics and
ethical rules will prevail.
F - OUR UNDERSTANDING OF NATIONAL AND DEMOCRATIC CONSTITUTION
We believe that the Constitution, which we believe to be the highest legal basis of the principle of "sovereignty unconditionally belongs to the nation", which constitutes the basic mortar of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, should enable the establishment and expansion of "sovereignty of the nation", which is the foundation of the national and unitary state.
The Constitution must be of a quality that will enable the establishment of "sovereignty of the nation".
The Constitution will affect not only those living today but also future generations,
We see it as a contract above and beyond politics and time.
Our Party believes that the Constitution should include general protection provisions rather than general restriction provisions, and should be based on freedoms.
and requires it to be in the nature of a "Social Contract".
The Nationalist Movement Party believes that a Constitution in modern norms required by the changing conditions of the world and Turkey should be drafted with a broad vision that takes into account the expectations of the entire society with as broad a consensus as possible,
with an understanding that respects different views and opinions,
by seeking compromise where everyone can contribute
and ethical methods.
A Constitution that is a social contract, with an understanding that takes into account expectations
and with broad consensus.
Our priorities in constitution-making:
The Constitution should eliminate anti-democratic practices.
The Nationalist Movement Party, in making a constitutional amendment or a new constitution; To reach a democratic state structure that guarantees fundamental rights and freedoms in the fields of thought, belief, enterprise, organization and similar areas, as in modern democracies, by eliminating anti-democratic practices in the political structure,
Our citizens will be proud to be a member of the same nation, and we will promote integration, not segregation,
not to differentiate but to embrace,
social reconciliation that will ensure cohesion, not polarization,
Achieving a national structure that is not estranged and alienated from each other, and a social life in which ethnicity, faith and sect are seen as the richness of national identity and millennia of brotherhood,
To break free from the state's cycle of appeasement and capitulation and to make independent decisions,
to become a power that has a voice in the world and can look at the world through the vision of the capital Ankara,
That defines us as a nation,
respect and observance of the founding values of the Republic and the principles expressed in the preamble and the first three articles of our Constitution, which guarantee our national and unitary existence.
The Constitution should ensure integration.
Constitutional amendments must secure our national and unitary existence and
respect the principles expressed in the first three articles.
Some of the issues we consider necessary in the constitutional process are the following:
The Constitution should be based on freedoms.
No administrative act or action should be excluded from judicial review.
Instead of shutting down political parties, political and criminal sanctions should be imposed on those responsible.
The Supreme Court of Cassation should fulfill the duty of supreme court
and its decisions should be appealable.
Basic education and health must be fully guaranteed by the state.
The right to education in higher education should not be hindered due to dress code.
The Constitution should include general protection provisions rather than general limitation provisions
and should be based on freedoms,
Fundamental rights should be secured,
individual rights should be expanded,
Freedom to seek rights should be fully established,
No administrative act or action should be excluded from judicial review,
Preventing support for separatism and terrorism through the exercise of fundamental rights;
reorganizing the duties, powers and responsibilities of the President of the Republic, as well as immunity and irresponsibility;
limiting parliamentary immunity to parliamentary activities within the framework of regulations on political morality; and
expanding the scope of the works incompatible with being a member of parliament,
preventing transfers of MPs,
controlling election expenditures on the basis of transparency, imposing
political and criminal sanctions on those who are found to be responsible for this, instead of dissolving political parties, except in cases of aiming to disrupt the indivisible integrity of the State with its country and nation, and using terrorism and violence as political aims and means,
Reorganizing the duties and powers of the Constitutional Court in line with the principle of separation of powers,
ensuring that the Supreme Court of Cassation, which is competent in criminal proceedings, fulfills the duty of the Supreme Court and that the decisions of the Supreme Court can be appealed,
following the opening of a parliamentary investigation into corruption allegations against the Prime Minister and ministers, Ensuringthat the allegations in question are judicially investigated by the Chief Public Prosecutor of the Supreme Court of Appeals,
Organizing the duties, powers, responsibilities and membership structure of the HSYK, the high courts and the courts by addressing them together and as a whole in order to ensure that the courts take fair and swift decisions, Bringing
basic education and health under state guarantee in its entirety,
Ensuring the right to receive education in higher education without being bound by the right to wear disguise,
linking the electoral and political parties system to more democratic principles,
simplifying the Constitution, making the Constitution regulate rights and freedoms with the "Basic Law" norm to be established in this context,
ensuring that some provisions and institutions in the Constitution are handled within the framework of the basic law,
Guaranteeing the establishment of income distribution justice,
introducing solid guarantees for working life, establishing
the right to collective bargaining and strike in parallel with the definition and classification of public duties,
ensuring their participation in politics, and
not including provisions that may imply immunity for the prosecution of public officials,
Democratization of rector appointments, making the
universities' own elections the basis for this purpose,
assigning YÖK with coordination,
Ensuring that the media and civil society organizations operate with impartiality and in accordance with general morality, Guaranteeing
the right to live in a healthy environment and the right of future generations to live in a healthy environment.
Provisions that may imply immunity in the prosecution of public officials should not be included.
Rector appointments should be based on democratic principles.
These are issues that we will not discuss in any way in the context of constitutional amendments or a new constitution:
The Nationalist Movement Party considers values such as the fundamental qualities of the Republic, Turkish national identity, democratic regime and fundamental human rights as indispensable
and refuses to discuss them in the search for compromise.
The transformation of individual rights and freedoms into ethnic-based collective rights within a unitary national state based on the principle of one nation-one state,
Creating artificial minorities by granting status to languages and cultures other than Turkish,
To prepare the ground for the confrontation of citizens with each other and the nation with the state,
Changing the definition of national identity and adopting the concept of "Turkishness",
Attempts to substitute the bond of citizenship for the concept of the Turkish nation,
Education in languages other than Turkish as "mother tongue",
To change Turkey's administrative structure and implement a system of autonomous regions in which local governments will function as local parliaments,
It will not discuss and will oppose any constitutional amendment or a new constitution that would allow and prepare the ground for the creation of a multi-part nation structure by granting political and legal status to different ethnic identities.
Efforts to change values such as the fundamental qualities of the Republic, national identity and democratic regime are issues we will not discuss.
Individual rights and freedoms should not be transformed into ethnic-based collective rights.
Attempts to build a constitutional infrastructure for the realization of a system of autonomous regions will be opposed.
G - OUR POLICIES
1 - JUSTICE
Justice system will protect the righteous
Justice is the guarantee of rights and freedoms and the foundation of the state.
We see justice as the guarantee of fundamental rights and freedoms and the foundation of the state.
That's why the judiciary is a place that people can trust without hesitation,
It will be in a structure where a sense of justice is embedded in minds and hearts.
The establishment of "justice of conviction" with judges and prosecutors having merit and conscience will be the guarantee of trust in the judiciary.
It will be ensured that our people live in a just and equitable social order, the
principle of the rule of law will prevail,
fundamental rights and freedoms will be secured,
protecting the right, not the powerful, by limiting various elements of power according to the rule of law,
establishment of social harmony and peace will be the basic duties of the state.
A justice system that protects the just, not the powerful, will be established.
Taking measures to prevent the occurrence of crime,
the proper transfer of evidence and information to the courts after the commission of a crime,
making arrangements for independent, fast and accurate decision-making by the courts and the use of information technologies that will make this process effective and efficient
and the employment of well-trained judges and prosecutors will form the basis of our justice policy.
Infrastructure will be created to enable courts to make independent, fast and accurate decisions.
Efficiency in judicial services will be ensured
Based on the principle that "justice delayed is not justice", the necessary infrastructure will be created to ensure fair and speedy trials.
The transformation of detention, which is a temporary measure, into punishment will be prevented.
In order to make justice services more efficient, elements in state powers and functions that burden the judiciary and reduce efficiency and effectiveness will be eliminated.
Since delayed justice is not justice, fair and speedy trials will be ensured.
In order to ensure that detention does not turn into punishment and that there is no opportunity to avoid punishment by prolonging the trial process, judicial restructuring will be implemented to speed up the trial process and
the service capacity of the Court of Cassation will be improved.
Judicial independence will be guaranteed
The independence of the judiciary will be established in such a way that no organ, authority, authority, person or pressure group will be privileged, and
no person or organ will be excluded from judicial control.
In the exercise of judicial power, no organ, authority, authority or person may give orders and instructions to courts and judges,
not to give advice and suggestion.
Judicial independence will be guaranteed and
justice services will be activated.
The election of the members of the Supreme Council of Judges and Prosecutors was held in accordance with democratic procedures.
and will be reorganized in a way that does not undermine the independence of the judiciary.
Obstacles to the jurisprudence-making function of the higher judiciary will be removed.
No one will be convicted without a final judgment.
No one will be convicted without a final judgment
The criminalization of persons who have not been convicted of a crime shall be prevented through statements, publications and other means.
In order to ensure the full exercise of the freedom to seek justice, the practice of legal aid will be activated.
There will be a fair balance between crime and punishment.
Offenders will be reintegrated into society and prevented from re-offending
Offenders will be reintegrated into society and their tendency to commit crimes will be eliminated.
As a requirement of our understanding of a safe and peaceful society; eliminating the causes of crime and the tendency to commit crime,
implementation of deterrent legal measures
and the offender will be reintegrated into society and prevented from re-offending.
In order to eliminate the tendency to commit crime, opportunities will be created for ex-convicts to benefit from the services of psychologists, pedagogues and sociologists in order to harmonize with the society.
Specialization in the judiciary will be ensured
Specialization of judges and public prosecutors in some specific areas such as organized crime, unfair competition, foreign exchange transactions, insurance, money laundering and capital market crimes will be ensured.
Judges and prosecutors will specialize in some specific areas.
Specialized courts will be established without disrupting the overall integrity of the judiciary.
The effectiveness of execution services will be increased and
deficiencies will be eliminated.
Infrastructure deficiencies in execution services will be eliminated
In order to increase the efficiency of execution services, the necessary physical and technical infrastructure deficiencies will be eliminated and the organizational and personnel structure will be strengthened.
Prisoners and convicts shall be housed in penal execution institutions in a dignified and secure manner, their food, treatment, transfer, education and rehabilitation shall be ensured and
their participation in production shall be ensured.
Evidence will be collected without loss
Criminal evidence will be collected using modern methods without loss.
Public prosecutor's offices and law enforcement agencies will be strengthened in terms of tools, equipment and laboratory facilities in order to collect and preserve the evidence of crime by using advanced technology and modern methods without distortion or alteration.
Courts, public prosecutor's offices and law enforcement agencies will be supported with computer programs to be developed according to crime types
and procedural errors will be avoided.
Judiciary's workload will be reduced
Procedural errors will be prevented
and the workload of the judiciary will be reduced.
With the completion of the e-government infrastructure, law enforcement agencies, public prosecutor's offices, courts and high courts, the General Directorate of Prisons and Detention Houses and the General Directorate of Judicial Registry will be able to ensure that justice is free from material errors in the process from the moment the crime is committed to the conclusion of the trial, the execution of the sentence and its deletion from the judicial record.
The workload of the courts will be reduced by ensuring that the courts are quickly and accurately adjudicated.
Technology will be used effectively in the judiciary
and coordination will be ensured in the judicial process.
With e-government, all institutions closely related to the judicial process, such as population, land registry and tax, will work in coordination.
The use of computer technology in judicial services will reduce the workload of the judiciary.
New institutions will be established to resolve some disputes without going to court.
Manpower and organizational structure of the judiciary will be activated
The need for judges, prosecutors and auxiliary personnel will be met and
necessary improvements will be made in their financial and social rights and other personal rights,
thus making the profession of judge and prosecutor more attractive.
Institutions will be established to provide solutions without going to court.
Judicial organization to be restructured
The restructuring of the judicial organization in line with social needs and the requirements of the age will be ensured, and
in this framework, it will be modernized in terms of physical infrastructure and technical equipment, and its
manpower capacity will be improved.
Legal education in universities will be harmonized with scientific developments and the expectations of the judicial system.
Law enforcement forces providing forensic services will be restructured administratively and will be
supported with effective in-service training, tools, equipment and computer systems in order to increase their knowledge of modern evidence collection methods and techniques and other professional knowledge.
The need for judges, prosecutors and auxiliary personnel will be rapidly met
and the judicial organization will be restructured.
Care will be taken to protect and strengthen the autonomous structure of the Forensic Medicine Institution within the understanding of judicial independence, and
regulations and audits will be activated to ensure that the institution makes impartial decisions free from external influences.
The autonomous structure of the Forensic Medicine Institution will be strengthened.
2 - FIGHT AGAINST CORRUPTION
Clean politics - clean governance will be established
State administration will be seen as a trust of our nation and
corruption, bribery, plunder and favoritism will not be tolerated.
Corruption, which destroys social life, democratic regime and moral values, and those who engage in corruption will be fought relentlessly.
Corruption and corrupt officials will be fought relentlessly.
Moral pollution and corruption, which threaten social peace and the existence of the democratic system and undermine trust in state institutions, will be prevented and "clean politics and clean governance" will be rapidly established.
A principled, level-headed and clean administration approach will be established in Turkish political and bureaucratic life.
A culture of honesty will be established
Moral and administrative codes of conduct that encourage honesty will be established, and
emphasis will be placed on instilling virtues such as honesty and responsibility in people at all levels of education.
The media and civil society organizations will also be supported,
essential to adopt a culture of honesty as a lifestyle.
It will be essential to adopt a culture of honesty as a way of life.
An independent and effective audit structure will be established
The audit system will be structurally and functionally reorganized to ensure effectiveness in preventing corruption.
The audit system will be reorganized to include performance audits within the framework of the principle of independence.
In order to prevent the cover-up of audit findings, conclusions and recommendations, it will be ensured that audit units carry out their activities within the framework of the principle of independence by providing appropriate guarantees.
All public institutions and organizations will be included within the scope of the audit, in addition to an effective audit of compliance with the law,
performance audit will be ensured.
No organization using public resources will be left out of audit.
No organization using public resources will be left out of the audit.
Corrupt people will be held to account
All kinds of corruption, which have been committed by politics, bureaucracy, civil society and the media in cooperation and covered up by mutual protection and protection, will be uncovered and those involved will be held accountable before independent Turkish justice.
Necessary investigations into allegations of corruption and irregularities will be opened immediately and the results will be brought to the judicial and administrative authorities, and
those who eat the right of servants, robbers and hosepipes will be held to account.
Those who have been corrupt will be held to account, and
all wealth acquired through corruption will be confiscated.
Confiscation of any assets that are legally established to have been obtained through corruption
In order to deprive criminals of these assets, legal arrangements will be made to enable the confiscation of the wealth of persons found guilty of corruption, regardless of where and in whose name it is registered, without regard to the statute of limitations.
An Anti-Corruption Board will be established.
Anti-corruption board to be established
Necessary administrative, financial, technical and legal infrastructure will be established for the institutions responsible for the fight against corruption to fulfill their duties effectively
and manpower capacities will be developed.
Accordingly, an autonomous "Anti-Corruption Board" will be established to prevent corruption, develop effective and permanent policies in the fight against corruption and ensure coordination among relevant institutions.
Ethical rules will prevail in every field
Basic moral arrangements will be made to prevent corruption.
In order to prevent corruption, basic moral arrangements will be made to cover public administration, civil society, media and private enterprise.
Unnecessary bureaucratic formalities that pave the way for bribery and corruption will be eliminated.
Transparency and accountability in public administration will be made effective.
By redefining the jobs that cannot be performed by those who leave public office, they will be prevented from entering into interest relations that will cause loss of public resources.
It will affect the attitude and behavior of public officials towards their work and their employers,
Accepting gifts that would lead to privileges and priorities will be prevented by effective legal sanctions.
Transparency and accountability in public administration will be made effective.
Severe penalties will be imposed on corrupt public officials, those who cheat consumers and those who do not pay their taxes, and
these will be publicized.
Corrupt officials will be publicized.
Awareness raising through education will be emphasized to combat corruption
Cooperation will be established between the state, private sector and non-governmental organizations to combat corruption and strengthen moral values in society.
In the bureaucracy, the media and the military, virtues such as honesty and responsibility will be ensured.
Fundamental rights and freedoms in the curricula for the education of our children, the guarantee of our future,
responsibilities under the law,
behavior and actions that do not harm society,
giving as much importance to public property as to one's own property, and human relations.
Total quality management will be implemented in state administration.
Legislation that paves the way for corruption will be amended
Total quality management will be implemented in state administration in order to eliminate the poor quality of public services provided to citizens.
The institution of expert witnesses will be audited,
The incentive system will be free of shadow,
legislation that paves the way for corruption will be amended.
The expert witness institution will be institutionalized, made auditable and no longer
open to abuse.
Incentive legislation will serve the development of the country
and will be reorganized in such a way that it will be free from all kinds of suspicion.
The system will be completely reorganized to ensure that transactions are carried out in a fast, accurate, safe and efficient manner by eliminating the exceptions in the public procurement system to exclude and exploit investor organizations from the procurement system.
Those who help detect corruption will be rewarded.
An arrangement will be made to ensure public disclosure of the pre- and post-tenure asset declarations of those who are obliged to declare their assets.
Rewarding those who help expose the abuse of public resources and all kinds of corruption and irregularities
and a comprehensive arrangement will be made to protect whistleblowers.
3-PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION
Participatory management will be followed
A governance structure and functioning will be established that observes fairness, efficiency and new developments.
Within the framework of the principles of democratic rule of law, an administrative structure and functioning that considers equity, efficiency and new developments together will be established.
A flexible and fast structure according to the needs in management and the understanding of quality service delivery
and effective methods for doing so will be put in place.
The role of the public sector in direct service provision will be reduced and its role in regulation and supervision will be improved.
Improvement of the administration by evaluating the effectiveness of policies and generating alternative policies,
participation of citizens in decision-making processes related to themselves,
effective use of the right to information and accountability on how services are provided, those responsible for them and their quality will be ensured.
Effective use of citizens' right to information and accountability will be ensured.
Citizen satisfaction will be the basis of service delivery
Public administration will be structured with an understanding of openness, participation and accountability.
Public administration, with all its institutions and rules, will be structured with an understanding of openness, participation and accountability in order to fulfill the common demands of the nation and to establish citizen satisfaction.
Citizens are satisfied and happy with the services they receive from public institutions and are able to control administrative actions and transactions
and a public administration in which it has absolute confidence will be established.
Performance-based management will be adopted
A performance-based management culture covering management principles and practices, organization, human resources, personnel systems and public relations will be established.
A performance-based management culture will be established.
Performance standards will be set for each institution,
will be held accountable according to set performance criteria,
The continuation of managers in their positions will be evaluated according to their performance.
Organization will be established in line with duties, authorities and responsibilities
Policy-making capacity in public administration will be improved
and public policies will be harmonized.
Institutions will be provided with a dynamic structure and functioning capable of continuous and systematic self-development.
Public policies will be compatible with each other.
By defining the functions of the state, duties will be distributed among central, provincial and local governments,
The organizational structure will be reorganized in line with the services to be carried out by the state.
Transfers of duties between institutions will be prevented,
unity in service will be ensured and waste of resources will be eliminated.
The organizational structure of the state will be reorganized and
institutions will be restored to a dynamic structure and functioning.
Regulatory and supervisory institutions will be restructured to provide more effective services.
In order to improve public administration, it will realize transformation as well as improving the quality of the system with all its institutions and rules
and the quality of the manpower that will sustain it will be developed together.
Personnel regime will be reorganized, wage justice will be ensured
The personnel regime will be reorganized and
wage justice will be ensured.
The personnel regime will be reorganized with an approach based on merit and evaluating performance.
Wage justice will be ensured in the public sector,
It will be ensured that those who perform work of equal value in terms of duties, authority and responsibility receive equal pay.
Objectivity and equal opportunity shall be the basis for entry, advancement and promotion to public office.
Regional imbalance in employment will be eliminated and
employment of public officials in sufficient quantity and quality will be ensured in all parts of our country.
The definition of civil servants and other public officials will be redefined and union rights in line with international norms will be provided to personnel other than civil servants who perform the essential and continuous services of the state.
Regional imbalance in public employment will be eliminated
and employees will be provided with union rights in international norms.
The right to become a member of political parties will be introduced for public officials other than those who fall within the narrowed definition of civil servants and those who carry out certain specific duties.
The need for manpower in the public sector will be determined through job analysis and manpower planning, and personnel will be recruited as needed and according to the job.
Contracted, temporary, subcontracted, 4/B, 4/C, proxy and other similar employees will be made permanent.
Public employment will be reviewed and arrangements will be made to ensure the permanent employment of all those who are employed under the names of contract, temporary, subcontractor, 4/B, 4/C, proxy and similar names despite doing the same or similar work, the
confusion and victimization in this field will be eliminated, and
an egalitarian, fair and equitable employment order will be ensured.
Public sector workers will be allowed to transfer between public institutions.
Workers will be able to transfer,
balance compensation will be increased, and
differences in additional indicators and compensation will be eliminated.
Public employees' payment elements that cause differences between institutions and statuses, such as additional indicators, service compensation, overtime compensation, other raises and compensations, and fringe benefits, will be reviewed in a way to cover all public employees
and will be reorganized in an equitable manner.
The balance compensation paid to public sector employees will be increased.
Flexible forms of employment with security will be made widespread, and
for this purpose, necessary arrangements will be made in the relevant laws, particularly in social security legislation.
The use of public office as an instrument of influence and power will be prevented
Ensuring that offices are not places of influence and power but places of service,
Preventing corruption and nepotism,
It will be ensured that public officials are held accountable for their acts as well as their omissions.
Positions will no longer be places of influence and power.
Provisions that hinder the prosecution of public officials and are characterized as immunity will be abolished, and an
effective prosecution process will be established.
Public officials will be prevented from abusing public power.
Public officials will be prevented from using pressure, force, violence and similar methods and abusing public power in their relations with citizens.
Criminal sanctions will be increased for public officials who cause abuse of public resources and public damage through neglect of duty and abuse of office.
Service capacity of local governments will be increased
The penalty for abuse of office will be increased.
Some public services will be provided to citizens at the local level by facilitating access, improving quality and efficiency,
service capacity of local administrations will be increased for this purpose.
Local government reform will be initiated by defining the relationship between the central administration and local governments, and defining the exact boundaries of authority, duties and responsibilities,
and will be implemented as part of the public administration reform.
Regulations on local governments will be made by taking into account the needs of local governments instead of regulations based on the needs and criteria of the central administration.
Service capacity of local governments will be increased.
Local services are delivered in a timely, fast, cheap and fair manner;
plans that are sensitive to the environment and disaster and give importance to aesthetics are made and implemented;
physical and social infrastructure, sufficient green areas, sports fields and social facilities are provided;
natural, historical and cultural heritage is protected;
Providing a livable and modern urban environment where the poor are taken care of is the essence of our municipalism approach.
It will be essential to deliver services to citizens in a faster, cheaper and fairer way.
No arrangements and efforts will be made to transform the structure of decentralization in terms of service, which aims to deliver services closer and faster to citizens, into political decentralization.
Effective arrangements will be made to prevent abuse and irregularities in some decisions such as budget, final accounts, establishment of companies, borrowing, transfer of concessions, settlement of lawsuits and in the functioning of the financial management and control system, which are under the responsibility of municipal councils.
Town and village Local Administration Representatives will be established.
Representatives of town and village Local Administration will be established.
The salaries of village and neighborhood mukhtars will be raised to at least the minimum wage, taking into account criteria such as the administrative structure and population of the settlement.
Members of village and neighborhood elders' committees will be paid an attendance fee of 150 liras each month.
Mukhtars' salaries will be equal to the minimum wage, and the elders' committee will be paid an attendance fee of 150 liras.
4-PREVENTING POLITICAL AND MORAL CORRUPTION
A principled, level-headed and honest management approach will be put in place.
Regulations and practices that cause corruption will be ended
Special attention will be paid to establishing a principled, level-headed, honest and clean administration in Turkish political and bureaucratic life.
In order to prevent political corruption, cultural and moral erosion; first of all, national and spiritual values and universal values,
civic awareness,
basic moral norms,
Social sensitivities such as the understanding of social quality, the sense of renunciation and sacrifice, and the culture of solidarity will be strengthened.
Social sensitivities will be strengthened to prevent political corruption and cultural and moral erosion.
For this purpose, all kinds of formal and non-formal education tools and methods will be used to ensure that all segments of society gain a national consciousness.
In this framework, first of all, fundamental rights and freedoms in education curricula,
responsibilities under the law,
awareness of rights, actions and behaviors that do not harm society,
It will be ensured that issues such as the virtue of caring for public property at least as much as one's own property and human relations will be included.
Political ethics law to be enacted
It will be essential that all aspects of the activities and work of political parties, members of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and senior political management staff are subject to ethical principles.
The work of political parties and members of the Parliament will be subject to ethical principles.
It will be ensured that MPs, mayors, chairmen and board members of the central administration, provincial and district organizations of political parties disclose their pre- and post-incumbency declarations of assets to the public.
Property declarations of politicians will be made public and the
financing of politics will be made transparent.
Political financing will be made transparent and spending will be audited
It will be ensured that the sources of income and election expenditures of political parties, party executives and candidates will be audited and made publicly available.
The upper limit for donations to political parties will be raised,
but donations above a certain amount will be made public.
The Constitutional Court's reports on the audits of political parties conducted by the Court of Accounts, as well as budget and final account reports will be made public.
Audit reports of political parties will be made public.
Immunities will be abolished and the supreme court will be reorganized
Parliamentary immunities will be lifted.
Jobs that MPs cannot do; ensuring efficiency in parliamentary activities
and the dignity of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey.
It will be essential to define the authority and duty of the Supreme Court within the understanding that the trial will be conducted by a fair, independent and specialized court.
In this context, it will be ensured that the duty of the Supreme Court will be fulfilled by a board consisting of the Presidents of the Criminal Chambers of the Court of Cassation.
Immunities will be lifted,
the supreme court will be reorganized.
Democratic principles and standards will be the basis of politics
Participation in politics will be increased and
political party membership will be secured under strong guarantees.
Participation in politics will be increased and
prohibitive provisions in the legislation will be revised.
Political party membership will be secured under strong guarantees.
Citizens of the Republic of Turkey living abroad will be enabled to vote in the parliamentary elections at their place of residence.
Political parties and election laws will be reviewed and arrangements will be made to ensure that democratic principles and standards prevail in politics.
Civil society organizations will be free structures operating under their own self-control.
A healthy functioning civil society and media structure will be established
A free and independent media structure free of restrictions and censorship, where press and broadcasting ethics are developed and institutionalized, and which acts in accordance with moral principles and standards will be established.
Civil society organizations; acting in accordance with moral principles and standards, professional ethics,
become free structures that operate subject to public scrutiny and self-regulation.
Consumer rights will be protected
Measures shall be taken to protect the health and safety and economic interests of consumers, to enlighten, educate, compensate for damages and protect them from environmental hazards;
civil society organizations aiming at raising consumer awareness and protecting consumer rights shall be supported.
Consumer awareness will be raised and consumer rights will be protected.
5-ECONOMIC OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES
The economy will be repaired and recovered.
In line with the vision of "Rising Country Turkey Towards 2023", in the Repair and Recovery period covering the years 2011-2015 of our long-term strategy envisaging 12 years of MHP rule, a repair and recovery will be realized in the economy.
In this context, the Ministry of Economy will be established in order to ensure coordination of institutions and organizations related to the economy and to ensure a more effective economic management.
and related ministries and institutions will be restructured.
In this period, employment-friendly growth will be prioritized,
income distribution will be improved,
the problem of unemployment and poverty will be alleviated significantly
and the welfare level of our citizens will be increased.
Economic policy will be people-centered and aimed at increasing welfare.
Putting people at the center of economic policies;
Our main goal will be to increase prosperity with a management approach that observes the principles of equality, morality and justice.
a) Principles of our Economic Policy
Stable and employment-friendly growth
Preventing monopolistic formations and unfair competition by operating the rules of the market economy and limiting the role of the public sector in the economy to guiding, regulatory and supervisory activities;
Stability, where private sector dynamism and entrepreneurial power are supported,
environmentally sensitive
and the realization of employment-friendly growth is the essence of our economic policy.
Realizing employment-friendly growth will be the basis of our economic policy.
Social justice and income distribution
A social welfare order that produces, creates employment and takes care of the poor will be established.
By ensuring stable economic growth and the establishment of a strong production economy; ensuring that every sector that produces, creates employment and takes part in this process receives a fair share of the value produced in proportion to its contribution,
Our main objective is to create a social welfare system that takes care of the poor and ensures a fair distribution of income.
Production economy with global competitiveness
Integrating with the world economy in an open and competitive structure and becoming one of the leading determinants of regional and global developments;
Supporting knowledge production as a requirement of the information age,
realizing the most effective use of information by providing fast and easy access to information;
We consider it necessary to create a production economy based on technological development, innovation, productivity and employment instead of a rent-based consumption economy that provides easy and speculative gains.
A production economy based on technological development, innovation and efficiency will be established.
Monetary policy and price stability
Achieving and maintaining price stability is essential for realizing sustainable growth. To this end, we envisage pursuing a monetary and exchange rate policy that will reduce the debt stock and the current account deficit to levels that will not cause vulnerability in the economy.
While we accept the free exchange rate policy, in which exchange rates are determined according to market conditions, we believe that excessive fluctuations and speculative movements in exchange rates should be prevented in the short term.
Monetary and exchange rate policy will be pursued to bring the debt stock and current account deficit to reasonable levels.
b) Productive Economy Program
Economic program will be implemented to increase production and employment
The economic structure based on imports, hot money and foreign borrowing will be changed.
Growth that does not create jobs and is not reflected in the welfare of citizens,
deteriorating income distribution,
debt stock reaching unsustainable levels,
high foreign trade and current account deficits,
high real interest rates, unrealistic exchange rate policy,
import-dependent production and exports,
a financial sector increasingly dominated by foreigners,
The fragile structure based on hot money and foreign borrowing are the main problems of the Turkish economy.
Overcoming these chronic fundamental problems, using advanced technology,
innovation, productivity and employment,
To establish a highly competitive production economy
In order to strengthen the social fabric by increasing the welfare level of the society, our Party will implement an independent and national "Producing Economy Program" that takes into account our country's own means and conditions, natural and human resources.
An independent and national "Producing Economy Program" will be implemented.
The main objectives of the Economic Program we will implement are as follows: Unemployment and poverty will be reduced and
income distribution will be made fairer.
To make the economy resilient to shocks and reduce vulnerability by reducing its dependence on external resources, and to reduce
the public and private sector debt stock to a sustainable level.
Establishing an employment-friendly, sustainable growth environment,
- Reducing unemployment and poverty
and making income distribution more equitable
, - Implementing a competitive exchange rate policy
, establishing a highly competitive production economy by reducing the dependence of production and exports on imports
, - Reducing the economy's dependence on external resources
and making it resistant to shocks.
Within the framework of the main objectives of the program, the following will be achieved: A realistic exchange rate policy that will make the increase in exports sustainable will be implemented.
Financing opportunities for SMEs will be increased.
The agricultural sector will be modernized to increase productivity
and agricultural products will be processed to increase their added value.
External dependence on energy will be reduced by developing new and renewable energy resources.
Transportation infrastructure will be improved and a widespread, fast, safe and cheap transportation system will be established.
Coordinated work of institutions and organizations related to the economy
and the Ministry of Economy will be established to ensure a more effective economic management.
Competitive market economy will be developed
and its legal infrastructure will be strengthened.
Production and employment will be encouraged and the
business and investment environment will be improved.
A high value-added and innovative production economy will be established.
Exports will be increased
and permanence in international markets will be ensured with quality products.
A realistic exchange rate policy that will make the increase in exports sustainable will be implemented and the
incentive system will be made effective.
Information and communication technologies will be disseminated.
The financial system and capital markets will be strengthened
and small investors will be protected.
Public financial management and financial control system will be made effective.
Effective fight against informal economy will be carried out.
Financing opportunities of SMEs will be increased and they will be able to compete in the international arena.
Agricultural products will be processed and their added value will be increased.
Foreign dependency on energy will be reduced and
a safe and cheap transportation system will be established.
c) Economic Growth
Stable, high rate sustainable growth will be established
The establishment of a stable and sustainable growth structure will be possible through the identification and implementation of medium- and long-term development strategies that will ensure the reduction of the development gap with developed countries in the long term.
In this context, establishing a highly competitive industrialization strategy based on knowledge and technology, production of high value-added goods and services, productivity, innovation, advanced and pioneering technologies by ensuring the active support and cooperation of social segments
and it is of great importance that public resources are allocated to this purpose in a selective manner.
A highly competitive industrial strategy based on the production of high value-added goods and services will be developed.
Economic environment for investment will be prepared
Investments in technology-based, high value-added goods and services will be provided with the necessary tax, credit, investment discount, energy, land and similar supports,
The technical and physical infrastructure required for investment will be realized in a public-private partnership approach.
By lowering real interest rates,
a realistic exchange rate policy and a corresponding reduction in the current account deficit, and
As a result of the extension of the maturity of the debt stock, an environment of confidence and stability in the economy will be ensured and uncertainty about the future will decrease.
, and the necessary economic environment for investment will be prepared.
Confidence and stability in the economy will be restored
and uncertainty about the future will be reduced.
An economic structure that takes into account not only domestic demand but also external demand will be created to ensure a healthy and sustainable structure of the economy in the medium-long term.
Total factor productivity will be increased in the medium and long term through breakthroughs in education expenditures, research and development expenditures, technology investments, institutional and physical infrastructure investments, foreign direct investments and openness to foreign markets.
Thus, the contribution of total factor productivity to growth will be raised to 45 percent.
Total factor productivity will be increased in the medium and long term.
The four-year economic program that our party will implement will achieve an average annual growth rate of at least 7 percent and create 700,000 new jobs every year.
d) Monetary Policy and Price Stability
Inflation will be permanently reduced, price stability will be ensured
Inflation will be brought down permanently
and price stability will be ensured.
The Nationalist Movement Party aims to reduce inflation permanently and bring it below five percent at the end of a four-year period.
and aims to ensure price stability.
To this end, in order to bring down inflation and ensure price stability, public deficits and public debt stock will be reduced and the weight of the public sector on financial markets will be eased.
Public deficits and public debt stock will be reduced and
a sound monetary policy will be implemented.
Within the framework of the program we will implement, by increasing tax revenues and reducing public deficits, the borrowing problem will be solved, the pressure on interest rates will be reduced
and monetary policy will be implemented in a sound manner in an environment where real interest rates fall.
Maintaining a realistic fiscal policy and implementing the programmed structural reforms will, on the one hand, reduce the cost of disinflation,
On the other hand, it will support the effectiveness of monetary policy by reducing the divergence between inflation expectations and targets.
It will ensure sustainable growth to make price stability permanent,
Monetary and exchange rate policies will be pursued to reduce debt and the current account deficit to reasonable levels.
A realistic fiscal policy will be implemented and
structural reforms will be realized.
The fact that the disinflation policy is based solely on the overvaluation of the Turkish lira has a negative impact on inflation expectations and increases the
fragility of the economy by causing the foreign trade deficit and the current account deficit to grow rapidly.
A free exchange rate policy will be implemented, and
excessive fluctuations in exchange rates and speculative movements will be intervened in the short term.
Indeed, under explicit inflation targeting, exchange rate fluctuations lead to significant deviations from the target.
Policies based on low exchange rates and high real interest rates may seem positive in the short run as they contribute to disinflation, but they prevent the adoption of structural measures
and increase external borrowing.
A free exchange rate policy, where exchange rates are determined according to market conditions, will be implemented.
However, taking into account the shallowness of the market, excessive fluctuations in exchange rates and speculative movements will be intervened in the short term.
High growth and price stability will go hand in hand.
Likewise, the Turkish currency will become uncompetitive in international markets.
and will not be allowed to appreciate artificially to the extent of encouraging increased imports.
As a result of the policies to be implemented, a process in which high growth rates and price stability can be achieved together will be possible.
Moreover, achieving price stability by bringing inflation down permanently will support a more equitable distribution of income.
An independent Central Bank will prevail and continue its activities in Ankara.
An independent Central Bank approach will prevail in monetary policy implementations olacak and it will continue its activities in Ankara.
e) Public Finance
Waste and irregularities will be prevented,  public deficits will be reduced
Public debt stock will be brought down to sustainable levels.
The main objective of fiscal policy is to reduce public debt stock to a sustainable level by ensuring a permanent reduction in public deficits.
To this end, revenues policy will be efficiency-related and forward-looking,
waste and inefficiency in expenditures will be prevented,
Tax revenues will be increased by spreading taxation across the tax base.
In order to ensure financial and administrative efficiency in Turkish public financial management, the plan-program-budget relationship will be strengthened,
financial risks will be taken into account in advance, and the
system will be made more transparent and accountable.
A well-functioning performance information system will be established for the use of performance information in the budget process.
Waste and inefficiency will be prevented and
public deficits will be reduced.
Efficiency will be ensured in public expenditures, waste and irregularities will be prevented, and
more public services will be produced with fewer resources.
Thus, the pressure on public expenditures will be reduced and public deficits will be minimized.
Efficiency measuring methods, including cost-benefit analysis, will be put into practice in the audit of public expenditures.
In order to ensure efficient allocation and utilization of resources, the effectiveness of the parliament will be enhanced by clearly defining authorities and responsibilities in the budget preparation process, and
financial transparency will be ensured by improving financial reporting and accountability.
Public financial management will be made more transparent and accountable.
Public revenues will be increased through equitable methods
Public revenues will be used to cover expenditures, and
fairness will be ensured in the distribution of resources.
It is essential that public revenues cover expenditures.
In the accrual of public revenues; ensuring social justice as well as economic policies such as meeting public expenditures from sound sources,  encouraging investment, production and trade,
minimizing regional development gaps,
Social policies such as increasing employment will be taken into account.
Fairness and efficiency in resource allocation and
efficiency in service production will be ensured.
A fair and efficient tax system will be established
A fair tax system in which everyone pays taxes according to their financial means will be established.
It will be essential to establish a fair tax system in which everyone pays taxes according to their financial means.
In tax regulations, in addition to the priorities related to public financing, the effects of tax on production and employment and its social aspect will be evaluated together.
The tax system will be restored to a dynamic structure that takes into account the economic, social and cultural structure of the country.
In this framework, a program including tax reductions and facilities for those who invest, increase employment, production and exports will be put into practice.
Tax discounts and facilities will be provided to those who invest, produce, employ, export and pay their taxes regularly.
Tax exemptions and exceptions will be selective, taking into account macro objectives and economic and regional development policies.
Arrangements will be made to provide tax reductions or exemptions in order to reward citizens who regularly pay their taxes on time.
Unitary taxation will be emphasized by taking into account the principles of individuality of income tax and taxation according to financial power.
Unitary taxation will be emphasized and
the tax burden of low-income earners will be eased.
By reducing the share of indirect taxes in tax revenues, the tax burden of low-income people will be eased and tax justice will be ensured.
Tax laws will be completely revised in terms of tax subject, tax base and tax types to ensure simplicity and efficiency in implementation.
Tax audits will be emphasized.
Problems in the organizational structure of the tax administration will be solved and
the insufficiency of manpower and technical infrastructure of the administration will be eliminated.
Losses and evasion will be prevented by strengthening the self-assessment system in taxation.
Within the scope of the right to information and transparency, it will be ensured that individuals and institutions have the opportunity to obtain information on where and how the taxes they pay are spent and to ask for accountability when necessary, and
losses and evasion will be prevented by strengthening the self-assessment system in taxation.
It will be ensured that all documented expenditures of taxpayers related to their private or official affairs will be recognized as expenses.
Higher tax on interest income from securities and lower tax on trading gains
, thus ensuring market depth.
Minimum wage earners will not be taxed, and
a portion of all workers' income equal to the minimum wage will be excluded from taxation.
The minimum wage will be excluded from taxation, and
all expenses will be made expenditures.
Bureaucratic procedures and obstacles to tax collection that cause loss of time and jeopardize public receivables will be removed.
An effective collection model will be developed
and the reconciliation process will be made effective and simple.
Tax awareness will be raised and
tax advisory and complaint units will be expanded.
Emphasis will be given to training activities aimed at raising tax awareness among taxpayers and citizens.
Tax consultation and complaint units will be expanded in centers where economic activities are intense.
Fight against informality
The general rate of value added tax will be gradually lowered
and the rates of transaction taxes (BITT, stamp tax, fees, etc.) will be reduced to prevent informality.
The VAT general rate and transaction taxes will be gradually reduced.
The reduction in tax rates will stimulate the economy
and broaden the tax base.
Informality will be effectively combated.
The distinction between informal economic activities and activities aimed at obtaining black money will be clarified
and a separate strategy will be determined in the fight against black money.
Inter-agency cooperation and coordination necessary for preventing the informal economy, monitoring illegal revenues and combating black money activities will be ensured
and MASAK will be activated for this purpose.
The Turkish ID number will be used in all transactions.
Informality will be effectively combated.
Public investments will be based on effectiveness, efficiency and strategic priority
The main objective of public investments is to maximize the contribution of projects to economic growth and consequently to social welfare by ensuring efficiency in the planning and implementation of investments.
In doing so, it will be essential to direct public and private sector investments to rational and complementary investment areas.
Public and private sector investments will be directed to rational and complementary areas.
In order to benefit from the opportunities of the private sector in large public projects such as energy and infrastructure, which require advanced technology and large amounts of resources, the realization of projects through public-private partnership method will be encouraged.
In parallel with this policy, priority will be given to investment projects in the fields of justice, security, education, health, energy, defense, transportation, aviation and space, R&D, software and development of new technologies within the framework of the principle of effective and efficient use of public resources to be allocated.
Public-private partnerships will be encouraged in large public projects such as energy and infrastructure.
Taking into account sectoral and regional priorities as well as feasibility and importance, among the ongoing projects, priority will be given to those that can be completed in a very short time and brought into the economy, projects that have achieved significant physical realization in their implementation, and projects that need to be carried out and completed in connection with or simultaneously with other projects that have been started.
Necessary resources will be allocated to priority investment projects
and they will be completed within the stipulated timeframe and returned as soon as possible.
Investment projects for the development of software and new technologies will be prioritized. The
approach of providing external financing based on sectoral and project-based priorities will be replaced by an implementation approach.
No resources will be allocated to projects that are not based on realistic studies.
Borrowing without a specific strategy and projects according to the source of financing provided
From ongoing projects; those that can be brought into the economy will be prioritized.
Basic principles to be followed at each stage of "project cycle management" in the management of public projects, i.e. project identification, preparation, analysis, implementation, monitoring and evaluation, will be determined and
arbitrariness and disorganization in practice will be prevented.
Project management will be activated in public institutions
and targeted performance audits will be ensured.
Public participation in project formation and decision-making processes will be ensured in important projects that concern large segments of the society.
Planning and implementation of projects in important infrastructure sectors will be based on master plans to be prepared for this purpose.
Projects that are not in line with the priorities in the master plans will not be brought forward.
In important projects (economic and social development projects) that concern large segments of the society, participation mechanisms will be established and developed to ensure public participation in project formation and decision-making processes.
f) Debt Management Policy
Public and private sector debt will be brought down to sustainable levels
Project management in the public sector will become more effective,
projects will be in line with master plan priorities.
As a result of the "implicit fixed exchange rate" and high real interest rate policies implemented in recent years, the foreign trade deficit has increased and
foreign borrowing has become attractive.
Real growth, real interest rates and budget balance are key to reducing the public debt stock.
It is not possible to succeed if only one of these is taken into account.
Debt management will be treated as a separate policy.
Debt management will be treated as a separate policy used for stabilization, like monetary and fiscal policy.
In this framework, a sustainable, transparent and accountable borrowing policy that is compatible with monetary and fiscal policies will be pursued.
Awareness of fiscal responsibility will be raised in the public sector, and
in this context, human and technical capacity for financial management, internal audit and internal control activities will be strengthened.
Awareness of fiscal responsibility will be developed in the public sector.
Alternative borrowing methods and instruments will be used to extend the maturity of domestic debt, ensure its convertibility and reduce the debt burden.
For this purpose, as in some countries, new securities such as bonus or premium bonds and tiered bonds will be used, taking into account country conditions.
In addition, the issuance of inflation and foreign currency indexed, convertible bonds and floating rate bonds will also be used for diversification purposes.
In order to extend the maturity of domestic debt, long-term special-issue bonds will be issued for non-bank financial institutions such as insurance companies, private pension funds, savings funds, mutual funds and pension funds.
Long-term special-issue bonds will be issued for non-bank financial institutions.
This requires the existence of a deep and effectively functioning secondary market.
Therefore, in order to ensure high liquidity of debt securities, emphasis will be given to methods that allow the securities to be repaid before maturity, to be exchanged for other securities, and to be sold in parts.
In order to reduce the cost of borrowing, the auction system will be made competitive by reaching a wide range of investors.
Emphasis will be placed on methods that allow debt securities to be repaid before maturity, to be exchanged, and to be sold in parts.
In external borrowing, the foreign currency composition will be diversified in line with the developments in international markets,
financial instruments will be utilized to reduce risk and cost
and different markets will be targeted.
Reducing the dangerous levels of private sector debt, especially the external debt stock of non-bank corporations
and necessary measures will be taken to mitigate exchange rate risk.
Foreign exchange composition will be diversified,
diversify into different markets to reduce risk and cost.
g) Financial Markets and Banking
A well-functioning financial system at international standards will be established
For policies aimed at achieving sustainable growth and price stability to be effective, the financial system must first function properly.
In this framework, all elements of the financial system will be strengthened
and a healthy structure will be ensured.
Care will be taken to preserve the national character of financial markets, particularly the banking sector.
All elements of the financial system will be strengthened, and
surveillance and audit systems will be in line with international standards.
In order for the financial system to fulfill its functions, legal arrangements will be made by taking into account country conditions and international standards,
supervision and audit systems will be brought in line with international standards and their effective functioning will be ensured.
Deposit insurance system will become competitive
A competitive environment will be created in the deposit insurance system.
By establishing a risk-based premium system in the deposit insurance system that takes into account the risks of banks, banks will be prevented from abusing the system
and a competitive environment will be created by enabling depositors to be more selective.
The rehabilitation of the banks under the management of the Savings Deposit Insurance Fund will be completed as soon as possible and their sale will be realized in a transparent manner.
After the collection of receivables is completed, the Savings Deposit Insurance Fund will be restructured
and will operate only as a deposit insurance institution and will
not be responsible for liquidation procedures.
Banks' problems will be solved without transferring them to the Fund, and
banks whose financial structure cannot be strengthened will be liquidated.
It will be essential to solve the problems of banks without transferring them to the Fund, and
banks whose financial structure cannot be strengthened despite measures will be liquidated.
Capital markets will be developed
Another fundamental objective is to spread capital to the grassroots.
In this respect, measures will be taken to ensure the development of capital markets, particularly stock exchanges, and to free them from the influence and control of foreign investors, and
adequate depth will be ensured by developing methods to enable more small and medium-sized domestic investors to enter the system.
Capital markets will be developed and freed from foreign control, and small and medium-sized investors will be given more access to the system.
Relations and cooperation with foreign money, securities and commodity markets will be improved.
Companies will be encouraged to enter the stock exchange and
facilities will be introduced to encourage their institutionalization.
Those who manipulate the stock market will definitely be prevented.
Factors that will cause loss of trust will be eliminated,
relations with international organizations and exchanges will be increased.
However, the ISE will maintain its current structure and will not be privatized.
Those who manipulate the stock market will be prevented.
A transparent and secure banking system will be established
A transparent and secure banking system will be established for savers and borrowers.
In order for banks to become effective in financing the real sector, the factors that increase the cost of resources will be re-evaluated and those that are not essential will be eliminated, and the
advantage that will arise from this will be reflected directly on loan interest rates.
Banks will become active in financing the real sector, and
public banks will support agriculture, SMEs, R&D and technological investments.
Public banks; modernization of the agricultural sector,
increasing industrial production,
eliminating development differences between regions
and agricultural production,
small and medium-sized enterprises,
They will be ensured to provide services to support R&D and technological investments.
Ziraat Bank will be restructured and will remain a public bank
, providing support to the modernization of the agricultural sector and agricultural production, but managed on the basis of efficiency and performance.
Ziraat Bank will remain a public bank,
Halkbank will be offered to the public, and
Vakıfbank will be restructured into an effective management structure.
In the sale of Halk Bank, priority will be given to public offerings and professional organizations related to the sector, and
block sales will not be allowed.
Vakıfbank will be restructured in a way to reduce the role of the public sector in its management in order to provide an effective management structure in line with banking principles.
The Development Bank of Turkey will be restructured and used effectively in SME financing.
In particular, it will be ensured to support projects aimed at eliminating interregional development disparities.
Development Bank will be used for SME financing.
The effective functioning of the Emerging Companies Market will be ensured
and this structure will be expanded across the country in the form of "Finance Bazaars".
Measures will be taken to make the banking sector able to provide continuous financial support to the real sector.
In order to enable SMEs to utilize more resources from banks, the resources of the Credit Guarantee Fund system will be increased.
In addition, the Credit Guarantee Fund and the venture capital system will be made effective and the collateral problem of SMEs will be solved.
Eximbank will open branches in provinces with export potential and expand its correspondent network.
The resources of the Export Credit Bank of Turkey (Eximbank) will be increased
and its effectiveness in financing and insuring exports will be enhanced to contribute to an export-led growth structure.
In this framework, Eximbank will open branches and expand its correspondent network in cities with significant share and potential in exports.
h) Foreign Trade
Foreign trade deficit and current account deficit to be reduced
The foreign trade deficit and current account deficit, which have reached record levels, adversely affect the economic structure of our country and increase fragility.
Import dependency of production and exports, foreign trade deficit and current account deficit will be reduced.
As a requirement of the export-led and employment-friendly growth model that forms the basis of our economic program, the import dependency of production and exports will be reduced.
Policies that will ensure sustainable growth and increase in exports will be implemented by reducing import dependency.
Exports will focus on dynamic markets with high purchasing power.
A structure that maintains integration with the world economy within an open and competitive structure will be taken as a basis, and a
planned and proactive foreign trade policy will be implemented with the participation and approval of the relevant parties in order to develop exports.
In this context, exports should be of high added value,
exporting knowledge and technology intensive products;
to focus on dynamic markets with high purchasing power, young populations and dynamic markets, which are becoming increasingly important in world trade;
develop trade with neighboring countries;
strategies such as reaching the final consumer will be adopted.
A fashion-brand will be created to establish the image of Made in Turkey.
Sector and commodity diversity in exports will be ensured
Within the scope of ensuring sectoral and commodity group diversification in exports, fashion-branding, promotion and design activities will be supported to establish the "Made in Turkey" image by emphasizing high value-added and technology-intensive goods.
In this framework, fashion and brand-oriented textile and apparel industry, electrical and electronic machinery and devices industry, automotive main and sub-industry, machinery-manufacturing industry, iron and steel industry, food industry and IT sectors will be developed and supported.
Turkish entrepreneurs abroad will be supported.
Investments of Turkish entrepreneurs abroad in Turkey and other countries will be supported
and necessary consultancy services will be provided.
In order for Turkish firms to be successful in international competition, necessary support will be provided for technological renewal, R&D and quality improvement activities.
The expansion of overseas store chains will be supported.
In order to gain a permanent market share in foreign markets, the expansion of foreign store chains will be supported.
Promotion and participation in fairs will be increased;
Exhibitions and business forums will be organized during the international meetings hosted by Turkey,
Promotion of export products will be ensured especially during the business council meetings to be held in target countries
and cooperation with Turkish businessmen residing abroad will be increased.
Factors weakening international competitiveness will be removed
Factors that weaken the international competitiveness of Turkish industrialists will be eliminated.
Factors that weaken the international competitiveness of Turkish industrialists in terms of transportation, energy and other input costs will be eliminated
and the investment-production-export chain will be established in a healthy manner.
The necessary legal, administrative and technological infrastructure will be established for the development of electronic commerce, whose share in world trade is gradually increasing.
It will be ensured that public institutions provide all kinds of support for the private sector's overseas investments and commercial relations.
The export incentive system, particularly export commitment closure, will be restructured.
By enabling the tax administration to access the databases of other relevant public institutions, particularly the customs administration, tax refund requests will be finalized faster.
Due to the problems encountered in cash VAT refunds, the practice of refund by set-off will be expanded.
Private sector investments abroad will be supported.
Within the scope of encouraging exports through credit, insurance and guarantee programs, Turk Eximbank will be strengthened by becoming more active in financing exports in the new period,
bureaucratic procedures will be reduced and timely use of Eximbank credits will be ensured.
Turk Eximbank will be made more active in export financing and credit utilization.
In order to reduce the import dependency of exports, domestic production of inputs that can be produced with domestic resources will be encouraged.
Specialized customs will be operated more effectively to deter imports of consumer goods,
imports of excessively cheap and poor quality goods will be monitored more closely,
The practices carried out within the framework of the legislation on unfair competition in imports, surveillance and standard control will be continued meticulously.
Domestic production of inputs that can be produced from domestic resources will be encouraged.
Savings of our citizens working abroad will be brought into the national economy
The money accumulated in the remittance accounts, which were initiated with the aim of attracting workers' remittances to our country and eliminating the shortage of foreign currency, is invested in the securities of foreign companies and governments, like the other part of the Central Bank reserve, and does not contribute to the national economy except as a guarantee.
In order to bring the savings of workers abroad into the national economy and utilize them in production and other fields, a mechanism will be established to transfer these accounts to the Turkish financial sector through the banking sector and capital market instruments.
Savings of workers abroad will be brought into the national economy.
i) Foreign Direct Investment and Private Sector Investment
Foreign direct investment will be encouraged
Necessary facilities will be provided for foreign direct investments.
To produce high value-added goods and services with international competitiveness,
realize the transfer of advanced technology,
provide employment growth,
In order to improve management capacity and labor force quality, necessary facilities will be provided to make Turkey attractive for foreign direct capital and private sector investments, provided that they are respectful of our national interests and respectful of the environment and human beings.
However, necessary measures will be taken to ensure that foreign capital does not become dominant in the sector in which it operates in a way that would adversely affect national security and economic stability and prevent competition.
Industrial Zones will be used as an effective tool for foreign investments.
Investment procedures will be accelerated
Attracting foreign capital to our country,
An effective promotional activity will be carried out to bring together domestic and foreign investors.
"Industrial Zones", which significantly overcome the problems of foreign direct investments such as site selection and infrastructure, will be used as an effective tool.
"One-Stop Business Centers" that simplify bureaucratic procedures and allow all transactions to be carried out in a single center will be established and expanded.
One-Stop Business Centers, which allow all transactions to be carried out in a single center, will be expanded.
International competitiveness will be enhanced through measures to ensure that corporate governance principles prevail in the management of companies and to strengthen their financial and corporate structures.
Adherence to international standards in investment and investor definitions in order to encourage foreign investments,
not to discriminate between foreign and domestic investors in terms of the principles applicable to them
and profit transfers will be based on international practices.
The principles of property sales to foreigners will be redefined.
The principles of property sales to foreigners will be determined by taking into account the principle of reciprocity and in a manner that does not threaten national security.
Measures will be taken to prevent short-term portfolio investments from going abroad rapidly and in high amounts as a result of fluctuations in the markets, and short-term capital movements will be eliminated as a factor of economic instability.
Short-term capital movements will be eliminated as a factor of economic instability.
j) Privatization
Public offering method will be the main method in privatization, and privatization of strategic enterprises will be selective
The aim of privatization is to limit the direct intervention of the state in the economy, to
increase productivity, to
establish a competitive environment in the economy, to
use resources efficiently by alleviating the burden on public finances, to
increase production and employment, to
transfer technology and to improve export capacity, and to
spread capital to the grassroots.
Increasing production and employment in privatization,
transfer of technology and the spread of capital at the grassroots level will be essential.
In privatization practices, the scope and priorities will be redefined,
consensus and transparency will be ensured with the support of the public,
and the creation of new investment and employment opportunities after privatization and the ability of the public sector to intervene and guide, if necessary, in enterprises that are of strategic importance for the economy and national security will be taken into consideration as determining factors.
The public offering method will be the basis for privatization.
Priority in privatization will be given to privatization through public offerings, and capital will be spread to the grassroots.
Market regulatory efforts to prevent the replacement of state monopolies by private sector monopolies will be activated
and competitive markets will be established.
Ensuring production in international competitive conditions in terms of quality and cost structure in the enterprises to be privatized,
protection of consumer rights and interests,
Reducing development disparities between regions,
The determining feature of our privatization policy will be that competition is not hindered and that it does not impose additional burden on the public sector.
Scope and priorities will be redefined in privatization practices.
The principle of transparency will be fully implemented in privatizations and
no practice that would disturb the public conscience will be allowed.
Privatization policy will be reviewed, strategic enterprises will be re-determined
and the enterprises within this scope will not be privatized.
In privatization transactions, investment, technology transfer and employment increase will be targeted, and
an implementation that takes into account such priorities as well as providing financial resources in sales will be made.
It will be ensured that the commitments in this regard in the specifications for privatizations are fulfilled.
In privatization, competition will be ensured to prevent state monopolies from being replaced by private sector monopolies.
SEEs will be ensured to operate on the basis of profitability and efficiency
SEEs will be consolidated into a single portfolio and will operate profitably and efficiently.
SEEs will be grouped under a single portfolio and managed in a profitable and efficient manner.
In this system, where a less interventionist and more market-oriented SEE policy is implemented, the Privatization Administration will be restructured.
A professional management approach will be adopted in SEEs, and a
The management of SOEs will move away from a controlled management approach and towards a profit and tax-oriented SOE management.
To ensure that production in the sectors where the SEEs to be privatized or liquidated are located after privatization or liquidation is realized
and care will be taken not to become dependent on imports.
No disruption of production in privatization
and care will be taken not to become dependent on imports.
Necessary investments will be made in loss-making SEEs that can be rehabilitated,
Those that cannot be rehabilitated and are not natural monopolies in their sectors will be liquidated.
Part of the proceeds from the sale of SEEs, which are the property of the whole society, will be used to finance social policies for citizens on low and fixed incomes.
State-owned infrastructure facilities such as bridges, highways and dams will not be privatized, and
revenue sharing bonds will be issued for these facilities, creating resources and
providing alternative investment instruments for lower and middle income groups.
Infrastructure facilities such as bridges, highways and dams will not be privatized.
k) Restructuring in Economic Management
Ministry of Economy to be established
The economic administration will be restructured
and the Ministry of Economy will be established.
A "Ministry of Economy" will be established in order to solve the problems encountered in decision-making, execution and coordination of operations and to eliminate the disorganization due to the fact that economic policies and practices are currently formulated and implemented under different ministries and undersecretariats.
With the restructuring of the economic administration, the Ministry of Finance will be responsible for the implementation of budget revenues and expenditures; the Ministry of
Industry and Trade will be responsible for the development of industry, domestic trade and foreign trade; and the
Ministry of Economy will be responsible for the implementation of economic policies, debt management, privatization practices, coordination with public banks, CMB, BRSA, ISE, Central Bank and monitoring the compliance of the practices of these institutions with macro policies.
Economic boards will be evaluated in a way that does not lead to waste of resources in line with the principles of administrative integrity and efficiency.
Regulatory and supervisory institutions will be restructured
The restructuring of existing boards and the establishment of new regulatory boards, within the framework of the principles of administrative integrity and efficiency
and will be evaluated in a way that will not lead to waste of resources.
Regulatory and supervisory institutions will be restructured and the Financial Markets Authority and Sectoral Regulatory Authority will be established.
The Competition Authority will be restructured.
Ensuring healthier and more stable functioning of all financial markets
Financial Markets Authority to cover banking, capital markets, insurance and other financial sectors to ensure that they contribute to balanced economic growth;
A Sectoral Regulatory Authority will be established to regulate communication, communication, transportation, energy, agriculture and pharmaceutical markets...,
A High Council for Economic and Financial Affairs will be established.
High Council for Economic and Financial Affairs will be established to ensure coordination
The High Council for Economic and Financial Affairs will be established by merging the High Planning Council, the High Privatization Council, the Monetary Credit Coordination Council and the Economy Coordination Council, and the
functions of these four councils as well as the coordination of all economic and financial affairs will be carried out by this council.
6 - SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
Science and scientists will be prioritized
Emphasis will be placed on science, scientists, scientific thinking, innovation and technology production.
The basis of our science and technology policy will be to give importance to science, scientists, scientific thinking, innovation, technology production and the use of technology in production, to achieve
industrialization by bringing production methods to a competitive level and
to ensure transition to an information society.
To increase the welfare level of the society by increasing its ability and capacity to produce science and technology
and technology production mobilization will be launched to realize economic development.
Starting with basic education, education and training will be dominated by reason and science.
A climate in which scientific thinking in the fields of social and natural sciences as well as ideas and arts will come to life and be respected will be created in our country.
Starting from basic education, the dominance of reason and science will be ensured in education and training, and students and teachers will be given a questioning and investigative identity.
Researcher manpower will be developed in terms of quality and quantity.
Researcher manpower will be developed in terms of quality and quantity by utilizing the facilities of universities with developed research infrastructure
and their employment will be encouraged.
Temporary researchers employed in universities according to Article 50 of the Higher Education Law will be provided with permanent employment.
The number of full-time equivalent researchers per thousand people will be increased to 5 in 2015.
Turkish researchers and foreign researchers who have distinguished themselves in their fields will be employed in research projects and production to be implemented in our country.
The Ministry of Science, Technology and Communication will be established.
Ministry of Science, Technology and Communication to be established
Creating all kinds of infrastructure for the transition to an information society,
conducting scientific and technological research and development effectively
A "Ministry of Science, Technology and Communication" will be established to ensure coordination.
More resources will be allocated to scientific research
The share of R&D expenditures in GDP will be increased to 2.5 percent.
More public resources will be allocated to R&D investments.
Private sector investments in R&D and technology production will be supported, and
the private sector will be encouraged to allocate more resources to R&D.
The share of R&D expenditures in GDP will be increased to 2.5 percent.
An R&D fund will be established with the share to be collected from public tenders
and projects will be developed to benefit from international funds.
Our universities will be transformed into centers of knowledge and technology production.
Universities, research institutions and the private sector to develop R&D projects in priority and advanced technology areas
and will be encouraged to put them into practice.
Our universities will be transformed into centers of knowledge and technology production,
technocities and technology free zones, which are important tools for scientific and technological breakthroughs, will be developed and expanded, guided projects will be realized within the framework of university-industry cooperation,
university-industry joint research centers will be established, and
the private sector will benefit from the R&D capacity of universities.
A National Innovation System will be established.
National Innovation System to be established
A "National Innovation System" will be established to ensure that scientific and technological research is transformed into production and social benefit through innovations and patents,
In this framework, R&D activities necessary for technological innovations and renewal of technological products will be supported.
Following the establishment of the National Innovation System, sectoral and local innovation systems will be established
and the system will be structured according to regional characteristics.
"Technology Transfer Centers" will be established.
The intellectual property rights system will be activated to protect patents, trademarks, industrial designs and copyrights,
"Technology Transfer Centers" will be established to transfer R&D results to industry and production
, and the private sector will be encouraged to support R&D and technology production investments.
Science and technology will be transformed into economic benefits.
Emphasis will be given to innovation, which has a strategic role in making our country globally competitive, gaining a larger share from world markets, increasing productivity, and transforming science and technology into economic benefits.
Guided R&D projects will be supported, SMEs will be included in these projects, their competitiveness will be improved
and they will be given the capacity to produce large projects.
Institutional capacity in science and technology will be improved.
In this framework, national technology production centers will be established
and "Ankara Basic Research Center (ATAM)" will be established as the scientific research center of the Turkic World.
Ankara Basic Research Center (ATAM) will be established as the scientific research center of the Turkic World.
Turkey will be a center of attraction for scientists
Considering the fact that one of the most important factors of economic and social development is qualified manpower, in order to create all kinds of infrastructure that will make Turkey a center of attraction for the scientific community, the capacity of researcher manpower will be developed,
technical, administrative and financial facilities for advanced research and development studies will be improved in order to make it attractive for Turkish and foreign researchers who are distinguished in their fields to be employed in our country.
Employment of Turkish and foreign researchers in Turkey will be made attractive.
Strategic technologies to be supported
R&D activities in strategic technologies of our age such as information production technologies, biotechnology, gene and tissue technologies, space and aviation technologies, information technologies, nano and nuclear technologies, mechatronics, production processes and technologies, material technologies, energy technologies and design technologies
and the transformation of R&D results into production will be given importance and priority.
Strategic technologies will be supported.
Scientific and technological collaborations will be established
Scientific and technological cooperation at the international level, particularly with the Turkic Republics, will be developed through joint scientific and technological research and development centers.
Cooperation with countries capable of producing advanced technology will be developed,
universal developments in science and technology will be followed
and technology transfer will be realized.
Cooperation with countries capable of producing advanced technology will be improved.
Research in social sciences will be increased
By supporting research activities in social fields such as economics, law, history, archaeology, sociology and religious sciences, a better understanding of the age we live in and social developments will be ensured by revealing the values and richness of our nation, the opportunities, dangers and threats regarding the past and present of our state.
Research in social sciences will be increased to better understand social developments.
Public procurement policy will be based on R&D
The procurement policies of all public institutions, particularly those for the defense industry, will be based on R&D and
will be used to improve our capability in science, technology, technology and innovation.
7 - INDUSTRIALIZATION
An industry with international competitiveness will be established
An industry with competitive power will be created, and
industrial investments that will mobilize domestic opportunities will be supported.
Mobilizing local resources, employing a qualified workforce, using and producing advanced technology,
developing original designs and brands,
that takes into account consumer health and preferences,
production in accordance with environmental norms,
envisioning technological innovation,
that increase productivity,
An industry with international competitiveness will be created.
Emphasis will be given to the production of high value-added products in sectors with high growth, employment and export capacities.
Reduce import dependency
and industrial investments that will mobilize domestic capabilities will be supported.
Turkey will become a production center in sectors with medium and high production technologies.
Turkey will become an important regional and global production center in sectors with medium and high level production technologies.
Breakthroughs will be made in the defense and aerospace, machinery manufacturing, chemical, electronics and software industries.
The defense industry, which is of great importance for our country both in terms of security and economy, needs a defense industry that can produce technology.
and integrated with other industries.
Breakthroughs will be made in the defense and aerospace, machinery manufacturing, chemical, electronics and software industries.
Emphasis will be given to the development of the electronics industry and the software sector and to the development of new products in priority areas that will provide high added value based on knowledge.
Emphasis will be given to the production, development, transfer and utilization of microelectronics-based information technologies.
Effective industrial investment supports will be established
Emphasis will be placed on the production of microelectronics-based information technologies.
In order to benefit from the capabilities of space in the field of defense and security, emphasis will be placed on aviation and space technologies, and
satellite production technologies will be encouraged.
Investment incentives of more than 100 percent will be granted to investment projects that create high added value and employment, and
the employer's share of insurance premiums will be covered by the state at a certain rate and for a certain period of time.
In the medium and long term, in order to accelerate growth and increase employment, in addition to taking structural measures, measures will be taken to support the rapid realization of projects with incentive certificates for which investment decisions have been made by the private sector.
Investment discounts and other incentives will be applied to investment projects that provide high added value and employment.
Non-cost factors such as funds and similar deductions that increase the prices of inputs used by the industry will be removed.
Transition to high value-added products in the textile-clothing sector,
Additional support will be given to fashion-brand creation and design.
Assisting in the determination of the economic value of the patent, bringing together the industrial sector and the inventor
and effective mechanisms will be developed to provide support in the innovation process.
Investment banking will be supported to provide cheap and long-term resources to industrial investments that are based on advanced technology, have high export capacity and provide employment.
Investment projects with private sector incentive certificates will be completed rapidly.
Industry information system will be established
In order to determine policies and strategies in the field of industry and trade, an information system including industry and trade inventory will be established;
Turkey's industry and trade digital map will be prepared
and decision support systems based on these information systems will be developed.
An information system including industry and trade inventory will be established and
decision support systems will be developed.
8 - ENERGY AND NATURAL RESOURCES
Uninterrupted, sufficient and secure energy supply will be ensured
Reducing external dependence on energy, ensuring resource diversity and ensuring uninterrupted and sufficient production,
to be met within a secure and environmentally sound supply system,
efficient use of domestic energy resources,
The competence to produce new energy technologies, especially nuclear, will be achieved.
Quality, low-cost, uninterrupted, sufficient and secure energy supply will be ensured.
Quality and low-cost energy supply will be realized.
Public energy investments shall be realized in a planned and stable manner and
investments of domestic and foreign capital in this field shall be encouraged.
Public enterprises engaged in the exploration, extraction, transportation, operation and marketing of petroleum and natural gas will be gathered under a single senior management to gain competitiveness in international markets.
Competitiveness in oil and natural gas exploration, extraction, transportation and marketing will be ensured.
In energy planning and international agreements, security of supply will be ensured by diversifying sources and countries.
Importance will be given to biofuel production in order to reduce our country's dependence on foreign energy and at the same time to use the existing agricultural potential efficiently
and within this framework, investments in energy agriculture will be supported.
Energy will be diversified in terms of sources and countries.
A well-functioning energy market will be established
Private and public sector activities in the energy sector will be regulated and supported,
consumer rights will be protected,
competition will be established,
A healthy and efficiently functioning market will be established.
The opportunities of the private sector will also be utilized at every stage from production to consumption of energy resources.
A well-functioning energy market will be established and
private sector opportunities will be utilized at every stage.
Emphasis will be placed on energy supply from new and renewable sources
Utilization of new and renewable energy resources and water potential to meet energy needs
and investments envisaging the utilization of alternative energy sources
and research and development activities in this field will be encouraged.
Having nuclear energy production technology is among our priority targets and nuclear power plants will be established to ensure energy supply security.
On the other hand, it will be ensured that our country possesses sensitive nuclear technology, including advanced technologies that can be used at all levels of science and technology.
Emphasis will be placed on energy supply from new and renewable sources, and
nuclear energy production technology will be acquired.
Hydroelectric energy production will be increased by utilizing the water potential, which is one of the clean energy resources, at the highest level.
Exploration and production of oil, natural gas and precious metals will be accelerated
Exploration and production of oil, natural gas and precious metals will be accelerated.
TPAO's technical and economic capacity will be strengthened,
international strategic partnerships will be established and oil and natural gas exploration and production activities will be accelerated.
In order to transform our natural resources such as oil, natural gas and precious metals into economic value, all opportunities will be mobilized through public-private-foreign capital cooperation
, and international partnerships will be established in line with Turkey's national interests.
Emphasis will be given to the development of new technologies in oil exploration and extraction activities.
Our geothermal resources will be utilized in tourism and agriculture sectors as well as in housing and workplaces.
Turkey will be a major player in the energy market
Beyond being a country that only enables the transit of energy between energy producing and consuming countries, Turkey will be ensured to be one of the important actors in the market by having the infrastructure to produce value-added energy products.
Geothermal resources will be utilized in tourism and agriculture sectors as well as in housing and workplaces.
Energy savings will be achieved
Energy needs of buildings will be reduced through effective thermal insulation and architecture practices,
energy savings will be achieved.
Efficiency in energy use will be increased by preventing illegal use, improving transmission and distribution lines and developing advanced technologies in consumption,
consumption awareness will be created.
Energy needs of buildings will be reduced through effective thermal insulation and architecture practices.
Our minerals will be transformed into high value-added products
Precious metals will be transformed into new value-added products and sold.
Finding new reserves in addition to our known mineral reserves,
meeting the raw material demands of the industrial and energy sectors in a cheap and safe manner, and
increasing our exports of processed minerals will constitute the basis of our mining policy.
In order to ensure security of supply in minerals that have to be imported, the private sector will be supported to invest abroad, especially in the Turkic Republics.
Continuity and supply security will be ensured in the supply of mineral and industrial raw materials required by the national economy.
Overseas investments of the private sector will be supported in order to ensure security of supply in minerals that have to be imported.
Instead of selling gold, thorium, boron and similar precious metals as ore without processing, they will be sold by transforming them into new value-added products using high advanced technology.
To this end, more resources will be allocated to R&D activities.
The resources allocated to exploration activities will be increased
and measures will be taken to enable the private sector to engage in exploration activities.
Technology transfer will be emphasized in exploration and operation activities.
Resources allocated to exploration activities will be increased, and
effective coordination and supervision will be ensured in the sector.
The sector will be structured to plan, direct and support the economic activities to be carried out and to produce information and data;
informality in activities carried out away from mining techniques and financial supervision will be prevented in order to keep production costs low.
Effective coordination and supervision will be ensured in matters such as exploration, licensing, production, investment and incentives for mining.
A sustainable water policy will be implemented and
underground and surface water resources will be utilized effectively.
Water resources will be effectively utilized in accordance with national interests
Drinking water, geothermal waters, rainwater, sea water and all underground and surface water resources will be effectively utilized with a holistic approach that includes the development of water resources, management of water services and utilization of water.
For this purpose, waterways projects that will bring the resource and demand together will be put into practice.
The planning, management and operation of our water resources will be carried out according to the priorities of our country.
Water management; evaluation of international policies in the light of our national interests and social realities
and the implementation of a sustainable water policy.
Protecting water from the source, not polluting it,
dams are in harmony with the environment,
protection of reservoirs from the effects of erosion and urban waste,
It will be essential to provide healthy drinking and potable water at international standards.
Planning all our water resources according to the priorities of our country,
management, development and operation
The Water Development Program will ensure the monitoring, evaluation and coordination of national and international policies on water with a holistic approach.
New irrigation technologies will be used in agriculture,
water will be used economically,
water will be used economically and salinization of fertile agricultural soil will be prevented.
Farmers and tarımsal businesses will be supported in the use of new irrigation technologies in agricultural irrigation, and the
transportation system will support economic and social development.
9 - TRANSPORT
Fast, safe and cost-effective transportation system will be established
The transportation system will establish a fast, safe and environmentally sensitive competition that uses advanced technology,
It will be ensured that it has a structure that integrates with international transportation corridors and will guide the industry in a widespread and bearable cost.
Combined transportation will be developed and
standards of transportation infrastructure will be raised.
The transportation system will support economic and social development, safeguard national interests,
meet the demands of the security system,
improve the welfare of citizens
and ensure the satisfaction of users.
Smart vehicles and smart systems will be developed for land, sea and air transportation.
Emphasis will be given to ensure that transportation subsystems are complementary to each other
and priority will be given to projects that will improve combined transportation.
The standards of transportation by railways, ports, airports and roads, especially divided roads, will be raised.
The share of rail and maritime transportation in freight and passenger transportation will be increased.
Road infrastructure deficiencies will be completed and
new divided roads will be built.
Taking into account the position of Turkey in international land transportation, infrastructure deficiencies in land transportation will be eliminated.
New divided highways and alternative roads will be constructed in areas with high traffic density.
The Dardanelles strait crossing project will be realized.
Investments will be made in main transportation corridors.
The "Çanakkale Strait Crossing" project, which will ensure the integration of the South Marmara-Aegean axis with the Thrace and European land transportation corridors, will be realized.
Standards for project design, financing, implementation and operation in urban transportation will be improved.
Urban transportation infrastructure will be transformed from being only vehicle-oriented to a people-oriented structure.
In the long term, investments will be made to ensure railway, highway and port integration on the Samsun-Adana and Trabzon-GAP lines within the framework of developing the south-north transportation infrastructure in parallel with the infrastructure development in the east-west transportation corridors.
Railway standards will be raised,
new lines will be built
and domestic production of high-speed train technology will be ensured.
Railway network will be expanded and technology will be renewed
The standards of railways will be raised,
The railway network will be expanded by building railways that provide high speed and transportation comfort,
Port and main line railway connections of industrial centers will be realized.
High-speed train transportation technologies will be developed and domestic production of infrastructure, superstructure and electromechanics in rail transportation will be ensured.
High-speed train lines will be built on the Ankara-İzmir, Ankara-Adana, Istanbul-Antalya, Istanbul-Izmir routes.
In this framework, while the standard of the existing railways will be raised rapidly and speed and quality will be improved,
new railway investments will be made to connect industrial centers to ports and main lines.
Ankara-Afyonkarahisar-İzmir, Ankara-Adana-Gaziantep, Ankara-Sivas-Erzurum, Ankara-Konya-Antalya, İstanbul-Antalya, İstanbul-Bursa-İzmir high speed train projects will be implemented.
State Railways will be restructured
and integrated with other modes of transportation.
State Railways will be restored to a management approach that is compatible with market conditions and that produces efficient and economic services,
and its integration with other modes of transportation will be ensured.
Maritime transportation will be strengthened
Inadequacies in port infrastructure, terminal facilities and main transportation artery connections in the transportation system will be eliminated.
Inland connections will be improved and ports will be transformed into logistics centers capable of combined transportation.
Ports will be transformed into logistics centers capable of combined transportation.
The capacity of ports suitable for transit freight transportation will be increased.
An effective regulation and supervision system will be established by taking into account the geographical monopoly position of ports.
Investments to increase the capacity and efficiency of the maritime transportation fleet will be encouraged,
foreign trade transportation will be carried out by national flagged vessels, and the fleet will be ensured to get a larger share in maritime transportation.
Air transportation will be ensured to serve in accordance with international standards.
Civil aviation will be developed, passenger and cargo capacity will be increased
Air transport services will be provided in line with international standards,
cost-reducing measures will be taken for the development of regional air passenger transportation
, and airline companies will be directed to build fleet capacity suitable for small airport traffic and passenger profile.
Air cargo transportation will be developed
and a larger share of the cargo market in our region will be obtained.
Incentive measures will be taken for the development of air cargo transportation, the
share of the domestic air cargo fleet in the transportation of products subject to foreign trade will be increased
and a strategy will be pursued to gain a share in the air cargo market of the countries in our region.
Logistics centers will be established
Turkey, which is located on international transportation and energy corridors, will be transformed into a "regional logistics hub" by improving its logistics and transportation infrastructure.
In this context, organized logistics zones with high-capacity land, sea, rail and air connections will be built, and
access to domestic and international markets will be ensured for industrial, energy and agricultural production basins through these zones.
Organized logistics zones will be built
and our country will become a regional logistics hub.
10- INFORMATION TECHNOLOGIES AND COMMUNICATION
Transition to information society will be accelerated
An infrastructure with high technology capacity in the field of information and communication technologies will be established.
In order to establish effective competition and quality service in the electronic communication sector, emphasis will be given to the creation of alternative infrastructure.
As a requirement of being an information society, different but consistent strategies will be implemented on the basis of technological devices, systems and software production and services.
Within the scope of services, liberalization and privatization will be completed efficiently and rapidly.
Alternative infrastructure will be established to ensure effective competition in the electronic communications sector.
In order to expand the use of computers and the Internet, a competitive structure will be established,
access quality will be improved and costs will be reduced to bearable levels.
Emphasis will be given to establishing the legislation, administrative structure and human capacity of internet infrastructure at contemporary norms and standards.
Competitive Internet structure will be established,
access quality will be improved
and costs will be reduced.
In order to ensure easy access to information, which is the cornerstone of the information society, from workplaces, schools and homes, the infrastructure for the national information network will be established, and
by encouraging computer software and hardware activities, it will be ensured that Turkey will be among the leading countries especially in the field of software.
National information network infrastructure will be established, and
we will become one of the leading countries in software.
Cheap and fast communication will be made widespread
All citizens will have access to information and communication technologies, particularly fixed and mobile telephony and broadband internet services, at an affordable cost, from anywhere in the country and at any time, with a wealth of choice.
Enriching content on the Internet
and the importance will be attached to being qualified, accurate and in Turkish.
Encouraging the production and export of computer hardware and software and technologies that will ensure fast data and voice transmission, and
increasing the rate of domestic contribution and intellectual property in the electronics sector, in the rapidly developing and high value-added informatics and especially in electronic communication technologies will be ensured.
The rate of domestic contribution and intellectual property in electronic communication technologies will be increased.
infrastructure-ready areas will be allocated for companies operating in the sector, and the
sector will be supported to expand abroad in the field of software and services.
Emphasis will be given to training manpower trained in information technologies.
Informatics Valley Project to be realized
Informatics Valley Project will be realized
and companies will be allocated areas with ready infrastructure.
In order to support the sector and the services provided by the sector, the Universal Service Fund and R&D Fund will be utilized in a transparent, non-discriminatory manner and within the framework of efficiency criteria.
Public procurement and regulations in ICT will be used as a policy instrument to support the development of the sector.
The special communication tax will be abolished under our government
and the tax burden on communication will be eased, and the
usage fee and license fee charged to subscribers in mobile services will also be abolished.
Special communication tax will be abolished
and communication will be made cheaper.
Creating the infrastructure for the adoption of an electronic lifestyle
By creating the infrastructure of the information society, the adoption of an electronic lifestyle in all areas of life will be ensured.
As a requirement of the e-lifestyle, everyone will be provided with a "smart card" containing citizenship information such as population, education, health, social security, tax, etc. to make life easier.
Services provided by the public sector in electronic environment will be diversified and expanded.
In this way, on the one hand, fast and quality service will be provided, and
on the other hand, unnecessary travel of people will be prevented.
In addition, with the provision of services in electronic environment, many practices that cause corruption and irregularities will be eliminated by ensuring registry.
The infrastructure for an electronic lifestyle will be created and
public services will be provided electronically.
Ensuring information security is of strategic importance and the necessary legal, institutional and technological infrastructure will be established for the security of access to, sharing and protection of information.
It will be ensured that managers, users, producers, sellers, implementers, supervisors and regulators act responsibly in ensuring the security of personal, corporate and national information.
The necessary legal, institutional and technological infrastructure for information security will be established.
In our country, it will be ensured that public institutions that process, provide and store critical personal data, information and documents such as social security, address, identity, military service, voter, tax records, and organizations that process, transmit and store important information such as banks, financial institutions, electronic certificate service providers, registered electronic mail service providers, notaries, etc. have an infrastructure to ensure information and communication security.
An effectively functioning information security audit system will be established.
An effectively functioning information security audit system will be established.
The postal sector will be regulated with a competitive approach taking into account the principles of quality, reliability and accessibility,
liberalization will be initiated and PTT will be restructured within this framework.
Illegal wiretapping will not be allowed
Illegal wiretapping that violates the right to privacy will not be allowed.
Illegal wiretapping and surveillance that violate the right to privacy and their publication will be prevented
, protective measures will be taken to guarantee citizens' freedom of communication and privacy, and
perpetrators will be subjected to effective criminal sanctions.
Responsible broadcasting will be essential
Media will be ensured to broadcast with an understanding of social responsibility and be effectively monitored.
The broadcasting of the audio-visual media sector within the framework of social responsibility,
It will be ensured that the Turkish language is used correctly and contributes to the protection of national culture and moral values.
With the regulations to be made in this framework, media broadcasting will be improved
and effective supervision will be ensured.
The necessary legal and technical infrastructure will be established for the transition to digital broadcasting over terrestrial transmitters.
11 - AGRICULTURE AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT
A highly productive agricultural sector will be established
Agriculture will be transformed into a structure with high productivity, technology utilization and export capacity.
Agriculture sector; producing high productivity and quality products,
able to use technology,
that can feed the people of the country
and export capacity will be brought to a high level.
that considers the balanced use of natural resources and
makes a sustainable contribution to growth.
It will be ensured to have an organized and highly competitive structure
The agricultural sector will be integrated in terms of production, processing and marketing.
A holistic structure will be established in agriculture in terms of production, management and marketing, and
farmers will be ensured to find the value of their products.
The agricultural structure will be adapted to modern changes and transformations in its physical, technological and social dimensions.
With the "contractual production model", on the one hand, our farmers will be able to market their products at their real value, and
on the other hand, industrialists, traders and exporters will be provided with a continuous, high quality, high scale, high standard, appropriate quality and price raw material supply.
Agriculture will be transformed into modern management
and farmers will receive their rightful share of prosperity.
Agriculture will be transformed from inefficient family farming to farming that operates according to modern principles
and it will be ensured that our farmers receive their rightful share of social welfare and modern living conditions.
Supervision in grain, tobacco, meat, sugar and milk markets will be activated, and the
sustainability of production of agricultural products and inputs used in production under market conditions will be regulated and supervised.
Product-input pricing mechanisms will be established to prevent the terms of trade from working against the sector.
Project-based cooperation will be established with the private sector in agricultural enterprises.
The use of technology in agriculture will be activated.
Public agricultural enterprises will be encouraged to engage in project-based cooperation with the private sector in line with their service functions.
Supports within the scope of the alternative product project, which contributes to agricultural product planning, will be expanded.
Genetic engineering, biotechnology, irrigation and mechanization technologies will be effectively utilized.
Functional use of agricultural lands will be ensured
and misuse will be prevented.
Smuggling of agricultural products and food will be prevented.
Problems arising from climate, soil, water, surface conditions of the land and its use and management, which limit agricultural production capacity and prevent the functional use of land resources, will be eliminated and
misuse of agricultural lands will be prevented.
Mined lands will be demined and distributed to poor farmers for agricultural purposes.
Land to be demined will be distributed to poor farmers.
Food safety and reliability in our country will be brought to modern norms,
consumer protection and awareness raising will be ensured.
Importance will be given to the protection and development of genetically intact products.
A "Gene Bank" will be established to protect plant and animal assets.
Organic agricultural production and good agricultural practices will be encouraged and
production activities will be made widespread throughout the country.
Producer unions will be strengthened, farmer awareness will be raised
Food security will be ensured,
genetically intact products will be protected and
organic agriculture will be promoted.
Strengthening producer organizations,
to increase the competitiveness of agricultural enterprises
and development of marketing networks will be emphasized.
"Producer Associations" will be made effective in order to enable our farmers to organize on product and regional basis and to have a strong position at every stage from production to marketing.
Agricultural Sales Cooperatives Unions will form the basis of producer unions
and producer unions will be reorganized to be active especially in marketing.
Producer unions will be made more effective and support will be provided for the marketing of the product.
Agricultural extension activities will be emphasized,
volunteer farmers will be selected and modern and exemplary agricultural practices will be realized.
Pollution of soil and water resources will be prevented and
farmers will be made aware of the efficient and effective use of fertilizers, pesticides and water resources.
Seed and seedling cultivation will be supported.
Production of ecological products will be encouraged.
Seed and seedling cultivation will be emphasized
Development and production of seeds, seedlings, saplings and breeding animals with high yield and quality suitable for the conditions of our country will be supported and
foreign dependency will be ended.
In addition to biological control against pests, alternative means of control will be prioritized and the
production of ecological products will be encouraged, taking into account agricultural control, modern plant protection and food safety.
In order to have a say in the sale, marketing and price determination of products such as hazelnuts, figs and apricots, which we have a significant share in world production, by creating added value, the necessary administrative, legal and technical infrastructure will be established and
necessary investments will be made for this purpose.
We will have a say in determining the prices of products that we have a high share in world production.
Importance and priority will be given to infrastructure projects for the irrigation of areas that can be technically and economically opened for irrigation to the maximum extent.
Agricultural supports will be increased
State support to farmers, which currently stands at 0.5 percent of GDP, will be raised to 1 percent in the first phase and
gradually increased to 1.5 percent in the following years.
The ratio of state support to agriculture to GDP will be raised to 1.5 percent.
Agricultural subsidies that take into account product supply and demand and increase producer welfare,
reducing input costs,
balancing the cost of production and product price,
that protects against disaster,
will be structured with an understanding that aims to increase efficiency, effectiveness and quality in production.
In order to support small farmers, SCT and VAT on basic agricultural inputs such as diesel, fertilizer, pesticides, seeds and seedlings will be abolished.
The SCT and VAT on these inputs used by medium and large-scale farmers will be gradually reduced by 50 percent.
SCT and VAT on agricultural inputs such as diesel and fertilizer will be abolished, and
cheap electricity will be provided to farmers.
Electricity tariffs used in irrigation and agricultural enterprises will be differentiated to ensure that farmers use cheap electricity.
Increasing production, processing and valorization of products,
The standard of living of our farmers will be raised by ensuring their marketing in domestic and foreign markets.
Brand products will be developed in agriculture and a larger share of international trade will be ensured.
Branded products will be produced in agriculture, and
exports of products that have gained value through processing will be encouraged.
Special support programs will be developed for products of strategic importance for our country such as wheat, corn, cotton, soybean, sunflower, paddy, hazelnut, grape, apricot, olive, peanut, etc.
and price guarantees will be provided for these products.
Those engaged in agricultural production on Treasury lands will benefit from agricultural subsidies.
Disputes with the Treasury will be resolved
and land will be leased to users on a long-term basis.
Agriculture Cities will be established
Price guarantees will be provided for some agricultural products.
Agricultural support will also be provided to those farming on Treasury land.
Diversification of agricultural products, increasing yield and quality,
processing on site to generate added value and provide employment,
"Agricultural Cities", which are rural attraction units where agriculture-industry integration is ensured, will be established to direct investment and technology to rural areas by creating a basic agricultural structuring based on marketing as a brand.
"Agricultural Cities", which are rural attraction units where agriculture-industry integration is ensured, will be established.
Futures Exchange and crop insurance system will be activated
Futures exchanges, which are an important tool in ensuring price stability in agricultural products, will be activated,
commodity exchanges will be developed, the use of licensed warehouses will be expanded, the
crop insurance system and contract farming institutions will be developed in order to protect our farmers and their products against risks.
The Futures Exchange and crop insurance system will be activated.
Virtual exchanges will be established.
Virtual stock exchanges will be established for agricultural and industrial enterprises, and
It will be encouraged to carry out purchase and sale transactions from these centers.
Livestock will be developed
Livestock will be supported,
animal breeding, quality feed and fodder crops production will be increased,
animal diseases and pests will be effectively combated,
animal products industry will be expanded throughout the country.
Productivity and quality in animal husbandry will be increased and the
development of livestock breeding will be supported in order to increase meat products steadily.
Support payments from the budget to support animal husbandry will be increased by 50 percent.
Support payments to livestock from the budget will be increased by 50 percent.
Importance will be given to domestic certified breeding, artificial insemination and dairy farming.
The production of fodder crops, the most important input of livestock, will be encouraged
and oilseed plant production will be supported.
Agricultural SEEs and cooperatives will be restructured to provide effective support to agriculture.
Live animal smuggling will be prevented.
Institutional structure on agriculture to be reorganized
By ensuring the rational operation of SEEs, agricultural sales cooperatives and banks operating in the agricultural sector, it will be ensured that they will have a structure to support the agricultural sector in real terms.
Agricultural research institutes and universities will carry out research, development and control activities in cooperation to produce agricultural products with high added value.
Agricultural R&D will be supported.
A seed production and genetic research center will be established.
Agricultural products and finished goods will be analyzed in accredited laboratories to protect consumer health.
Agricultural database will be established.
The Meat and Fish Institution will be restructured as an intervention institution to regulate the meat market
and will be put into effective operation, and
guaranteed prices will be introduced in meat and milk.
The Grain Board will be restructured
and its role as an effective intervention agency for selected crops will be ensured.
Seed production and genetic research center will be established.
Meat and Fish Corporation and TMO will be restructured as market intervention.
"Specialized Centers" will be established on food and livestock issues, taking into account local and geographical conditions.
Forests will be protected, victimization of forest villagers will be eliminated
Forests will be effectively managed, protected and developed.
Forests will be managed taking into account multi-purpose utilization, continuity, participation, biodiversity, specialization, effective protection of water and wildlife and ecosystems,
will be protected and developed.
Development of our forests,
Expansion of care and protection services,
prevention of forest fires,
result-oriented extinguishing methods will be developed.
Forest cadastre and general cadastre will be merged to ensure that property disputes are resolved.
Forest cadastre and general cadastre will be merged.
Private forestry will be developed.
In order to support forestry, private forestry will be developed by allocating land free of charge to forest villagers and real and legal persons who request it, under certain conditions and for certain periods.
Forest villagers who have settled in the natural growth areas of forests and who cannot do any other work other than forestry will be allocated land for agricultural production and their settlement will be ensured.
The vacated areas will be forested and turned into no-occupation zones.
Land will be allocated for agricultural production and forest villagers will be provided with housing.
Agricultural investments will be encouraged
The use of technology to increase productivity and irrigation investments to save water will be supported.
"Agricultural basins" will be identified across the country and investments will be evaluated as a whole on a basin basis.
The investments carried out within the scope of incentives will be carried out and finalized within the scope of "follow-up projects".
Agricultural investments will be evaluated on a basin basis.
Export support for agriculture will be increased.
Support for agricultural exports will be increased
and export and marketing support will be provided especially for surplus products.
Welfare of our citizens living in rural areas will be increased
In order to increase the welfare level of our people living in rural areas, village development plans will be made within the scope of rural development projects
and infrastructure investments will be completed as soon as possible.
Village social life units will be developed.
Water networks, storage units and treatment systems will be made healthy and
no settlement will be left without water.
Village infrastructures will be rapidly completed and
social life units will be developed.
In order to support the economic and social life of villages, which is one of the most important elements of rural development, public officials related to agriculture, forestry and animal husbandry will be assigned to each village.
The most competent of these officials will be appointed by the governorate as the "Village Local Administration Representative".
12 - REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT
It will be ensured that all our citizens benefit from the blessings of the modern world
Public officials related to agriculture, forestry and animal husbandry will be assigned to the village.
A representative of the local administration will be assigned to the villages.
The realization of a development model in which all citizens benefit equitably from the blessings of the modern world will be the basis of our regional development policy.
By mobilizing the potential of our country, the welfare level of the people living in underdeveloped regions will be increased
and development disparities between regions will be eliminated.
Development gaps between regions will be eliminated.
Peace and security will be ensured all over the country.
The compassion of the state will be felt by citizens in the remotest corners of the country,
no one will be left hungry or in need,
justice will prevail, and
peace and security will be fully ensured.
Regional plans and provincial development plans will be prepared throughout the country to identify the characteristics, differences, development levels, main problems and potentials of regions, provinces and districts.
By identifying villages with high development tendency, the infrastructure of these villages will be completed
and they will become "centers of attraction" for those living in small and scattered settlements.
Villages with development potential will be turned into "centers of attraction".
Target sectors will be identified for each province and district.
Especially for small-scale provinces and districts, target sub-sectors will be concretely determined based on the principle of "one province/district one sector" and
support will be given to projects to be implemented in cooperation between the state and the nation.
For key positions in underdeveloped regions, additional financial and social rights will be provided to encourage qualified personnel to work in the region.
Qualified personnel will be encouraged to work in critical positions in underdeveloped regions.
Provincial Investment and Development Offices will be established
Strengthening the private sector,
developing a spirit of entrepreneurship and competitiveness,
"provincial investment and development offices" will be established to ensure that relevant public institutions, universities, chambers of industry and commerce, professional organizations and non-governmental organizations work together under the coordination of governorships in order to realize local development through the harmonious implementation of regional and macro policies.
Provincial Investment and Development Offices will be established.
Provincial action plans will be prepared.
Through "provincial action plans" to be prepared by Provincial Investment and Development Offices within the framework of regional and provincial development plans, the problems of each settlement in the province will be identified and solved in cooperation with the private sector and non-governmental organizations.
Unconscious migration will be prevented
Medium-sized provinces with potential in the fields of industry and services will be identified and the infrastructure needs of these provinces, which are functional regional centers, such as drinking water, sewerage, housing and transportation will be met rapidly
and a suitable investment environment will be created for the private sector.
Migration from rural areas to big cities will be kept in these centers and on-site employment will be provided.
Provinces with the characteristics of regional centers will be developed to create a level that prevents migration.
University-entrepreneur cooperation will be improved
Universities in underdeveloped regions will assume a specific role in the economic and social development of their regions.
Effective cooperation between entrepreneurs and universities will be developed.
Universities will be specialized in specific fields according to the characteristics of the regions.
University-entrepreneur cooperation will be improved.
Universities will be specialized according to the characteristics of the region.
Following the creation of the necessary infrastructure to strengthen entrepreneur-university cooperation in the region, the level of entrepreneur-university relationship will be taken as a criterion in resource allocation to the university.
Sectoral attraction centers will be created
Certain regions will be turned into "sectoral centers of attraction".
A sectoral map of the opportunities and potential of our country will be drawn up,
investment incentives will be given thematically on the basis of units to be determined at the local level according to objective criteria, and
certain regions will be turned into "sectoral centers of attraction".
A risk capital and credit guarantee fund system will be developed for less developed regions in order to mobilize local potential.
Development projects such as GAP, DAP, DOKAP, KOP will be rapidly completed, production and employment will be ensured
and the people of the region will be lifted out of poverty.
Regional development projects such as GAP and DAP will be completed rapidly.
13 - TRADESMEN AND ARTISANS
Activities of tradesmen and artisans will be supported
Preventing monopolistic formations by ensuring competition in the economy,
job creation,
redressing income inequalities,
bringing new entrepreneurs into the economy,
preservation of social peace,
eliminating imbalances between regions
and the activities of tradesmen and artisans will be supported in order to mobilize local potential.
The artisan sector, which forms the basis of the economy and social structure, will be supported and strengthened.
The tradesmen and artisans, which constitute the basis of the economy and social structure, will be strengthened and the dynamism in their activities will be sustained.
The level of technology utilization and product quality of the artisans will be raised,
productivity will be increased,
their access to information will be facilitated,
guidance and consultancy services will be activated,
their integration with the main and sub-industry will be ensured,
electronic trade opportunities will be developed,
inter-enterprise cooperation mechanisms will be established,
R&D activities will be supported, the
education and skill level of the employed labor force will be improved, and
resources allocated will be increased.
Support will be given to R&D activities of the artisan sector, and
resources allocated will be increased.
The social security support premium deduction from tradesmen and craftsmen who continue their activities during retirement will be completely abolished.
Professional standards will be developed, artisans will be given specialized identity
and a sense of belonging will be created.
Social security support premium deducted from working retired tradesmen will be abolished.
Tradesmen will be granted registry amnesty.
The banking sector will be made capable of providing continuous financial support to the real sector.
Tradesmen and artisans will be granted a registration amnesty and their access to financial resources will be facilitated.
Continuity of artisan activities will be ensured
A minimum workplace size standard will be introduced for large supermarket chains to open branches in city centers.
Existing branches that do not comply with this standard will be moved out of the settlement within a program and
unfair competition against small tradesmen will be prevented.
VAT and SCT will not be charged from the driver tradesmen who will renew their vehicles.
Tax rates will be reduced.
VAT and SCT will not be charged on the new commercial vehicles that will be purchased by the driver tradesmen in order to renew their existing vehicles.
tax rates will be reduced to ensure the sustainability of employment
and the economy will be revitalized.
Ensuring the continuity of the production of SMEs, which constitute the basic dynamics of economic life, and the
VAT will not be charged on SMEs' renewal investment.
SMEs will be exempt from VAT on machinery and equipment investments to be made for renovation purposes and will be
allowed to benefit from KOSGEB resources interest-free.
SMEs will be the main dynamics of the economy
SMEs that can adapt to change and development, have high entrepreneurial capacity, are internationally competitive, and have adopted a corporate governance approach will constitute the basic dynamics of the Turkish economy.
SMEs will be supported to improve their management capacity.
R&D investment and researcher employment will be encouraged.
Supports will be provided to increase the competitiveness of SMEs by developing them in areas such as production, management-organization, marketing, etc. and
effective systems for monitoring and evaluation of these supports will be established.
Knowledge and technology-based innovative SMEs will be supported to produce high value-added goods and services, and will be
encouraged to invest in R&D and employ researchers.
Effective operation of the Emerging Companies Market will be ensured
and this structure will be expanded across the country in the form of "Finance Bazaars".
The effectiveness of supports provided to SMEs will be increased and financial instruments will be diversified.
The Emerging Companies Market structure will spread across the country as "Finance Bazaars".
The business processes and organizational structure of Kredi Garanti Fonu A.Ş. will be improved.
In small industrial sites, issues such as infrastructure, transportation, communication, health, education, storage and marketing will be organized with a modern understanding.
SMEs will be organized in cooperation projects and associations in areas such as joint procurement, design, internal and external marketing, laboratory, machinery-equipment use.
Effective advisory support will be provided to SMEs to help them benefit from good governance practices and gain competitiveness.
SMEs' balance sheets will be improved and made more transparent in line with international standards, their
implementation of corporate governance principles will be encouraged
and they will be enabled to find financing more easily.
In this context, KOSGEB's institutional management, technical support and training capacity will be strengthened.
Border trade will be developed in a controlled manner with a new regulation and its contribution to provincial economies will be ensured.
In order to increase the manpower capacity of SMEs at all levels, universities, KOSGEB, professional associations and non-governmental organizations will be encouraged to develop training programs.
Formation of standards for goods and services to be produced by SMEs,
quality improvement
and the use of information and communication technologies in market access will be made widespread.
14 - FIGHT AGAINST UNEMPLOYMENT
Production economy will form the basis of the fight against unemployment
The fight against unemployment is based on realizing employment-oriented sustainable growth,
raising the level of employability
and establishing an entrepreneur-oriented market.
With the implementation of an economic program based on full employment in which all factors of production that Turkey possesses will be effectively and efficiently included in the production process at the highest level, we will move from a rent economy to a production economy that envisages a continuous increase in investment-production-employment.
A favorable investment climate will be created for private enterprise to make long-term investment decisions.
A favorable investment climate in which private enterprise can take long-term investment decisions will be created,
small and medium-sized enterprises will be supported, and
investments by foreign direct capital to create added value and employment will be encouraged.
Employment-oriented investments will be encouraged
Turkish entrepreneurship, which produces goods and services based on brand, quality and technology and has global competitiveness, will be the locomotive of the employment-oriented growth strategy.
Young entrepreneurs who want to start their own business will be supported and an
employment-based incentive policy will be implemented.
Entrepreneurship that creates high added value and operates at high productivity will be supported by improving the business and investment environment.
Young university and vocational training graduates who want to start their own business will be supported.
In order to encourage the employment of long-term unemployed, youth, women and disadvantaged groups, an "employment-based" incentive policy will be effectively implemented, and
advantages will be provided for each additional worker hired for a certain period of time in terms of insurance premium, withholding tax and energy costs.
The tax and social security premium burden on employment will be reduced.
The number of bureaucratic procedures related to investment and employment of workers will be reduced and their duration will be shortened.
Tax, insurance and finance offices will be opened in Organized Industrial Zones and in places where industry and trade are dense, and these services will be brought to the feet of entrepreneurs.
Productivity-based entrepreneurship and young entrepreneurs will be supported.
Employment costs will be reduced
and an employment-based incentive policy will be implemented.
Registration will be encouraged through measures to be taken on issues such as legislation, cost, inadequacy of supervision and bureaucracy that lead to unregistered employment, and
practices to prevent the employment of illegal foreign workers will be made effective.
In this framework, the deterrence of penalties for illegal foreign employment will be ensured.
Vocational training will be emphasized
The level of employability of human capital and labor force will be improved by raising the average education level of the society and providing them with qualifications.
The employability level of the labor force will be increased.
The education system will train qualified personnel in line with the demand of enterprises.
A strong link will be established between the education system and the labor market and it will be ensured that manpower with the quality and quantity required by enterprises will be trained.
The average duration of education of the labor force will be increased,
lifelong learning culture will be developed, vocational education standards will be raised and their acceptability in the market will be increased,
vocational training and skill acquisition programs especially for women will be expanded, and
entrepreneurship training will be provided to those who will start their own business.
Vocational training for women will be expanded
and entrepreneurship training will be provided to women who will start their own businesses.
Private employment agencies providing vocational training, retraining, adaptation and counseling services will be supported.
Vocational training programs will be implemented to support the participation of the disabled, poor, long-term unemployed, youth and women in the labor market and to provide them with vocational qualifications that will enable them to find jobs.
In line with the labor market needs analysis, active labor force programs such as entrepreneurship training, employment guaranteed programs, vocational counseling, guidance services, training seminars in enterprises, labor force training and vocational training courses will be activated and expanded.
Disadvantaged groups will be given employability qualifications.
Active labor force programs will be activated.
Program integrity will be ensured between vocational education and higher education,
practical vocational education will be emphasized and enterprises and professional organizations will be ensured to play an active role in this process.
New employment will be encouraged
The resources of the Unemployment Insurance Fund will be used to expand active labor force programs and encourage new employment.
Practical vocational training will be emphasized.
The Unemployment Insurance Fund will be used to encourage employment.
The duration of the unemployment benefit will be extended and its amount will be increased.
workers will be encouraged to increase their weekly working hours and hire new workers instead of compensating them with overtime.
Flexibility in employment types and working hours will be ensured without disregarding the need for additional labor force arising from the increase in capacity utilization rates of enterprises and the security in the existing labor market.
New hires will be encouraged instead of overtime.
Flexible employment with security will be ensured.
Children of martyrs and veterans will be prioritized for employment
In case the children of martyrs and veterans wish to practice the professions of their parents, those who meet the necessary conditions will be directly admitted to these professions without examination.
Children of martyrs and veterans will be allowed to join the profession of their parents.
It will be ensured that veterans, families of martyrs, those who have been victimized and disabled during the fight against terrorism and the disabled will contribute to production by placing them in jobs with priority.
15- FIGHT AGAINST POVERTY
A social welfare system will be established
By establishing a stable economic growth and a strong production economy; producing, creating employment
and ensuring that all those involved in this process receive a fair share of the value produced, in proportion to their contribution,
A social welfare system will be established which envisages that the needy, who are not involved in the production process, will be supported and lifted out of poverty through social protection programs.
A strong production economy will be established.
A social welfare system will be established to lift our people out of poverty.
For this purpose, a favorable investment climate will be created in which private enterprise can make long-term investment decisions,
small and medium-sized enterprises will be supported,
Investments by foreign direct capital to create added value and employment will be encouraged.
Our citizens will be permanently lifted out of poverty and
their quality of life will be improved.
The essence of our social welfare policy will primarily consist of permanently lifting poor people out of poverty, leaving no citizen below the poverty line, and
improving the quality of life of citizens by raising the welfare level of society.
Economic and social policies will be implemented in harmony in a way to support those on low and fixed incomes and a
balanced distribution of income will be ensured.
A charity economy and a culture of poverty will be prevented.
Income-generating projects and entrepreneurship will be supported.
Reducing regional development disparities
and public-private sector cooperation will be developed to mobilize local production potential.
In the fight against poverty, it will be essential to make the poor producers
Fighting poverty; preventing the formation of a charity economy and a culture of poverty,
ensuring that the poor become producers and live off their own earnings.
Income-generating projects will be supported by diversifying economic activities for the poor, and
entrepreneurs who will start their own businesses will be provided with financing, consultancy and marketing support.
Social support payments will also be made to employees who are poor or at risk of impoverishment.
Those who are employed but poor or at risk of impoverishment will also benefit from social support payments.
The rent economy, which provides easy profit and does not provide employment, will be put an end to
and resources will be utilized in a way to encourage production.
The tax base will be broadened, the tax burden of the poor will be eased, and
transfer policies will be implemented to ensure that the poor and those at risk of impoverishment receive a larger share of national income.
Supportive arrangements will be made to increase social welfare
In order to lift out of poverty those who are most affected by poverty, those with low level of education, engaged in agriculture and forestry, working as self-employed and casual workers, will be provided with the opportunity to be employed in non-agricultural sectors through vocational training and skill acquisition programs.
Available idle public land will be allocated to unemployed and poor citizens for agricultural production and employment purposes.
Basic needs, education, health and social services will be made accessible and available to the poor.
The education support allowance for mothers of children attending primary and secondary education will be increased to a minimum amount of 50 liras, taking into account their needy status.
Expenditures for compulsory education and basic health services will no longer burden family budgets.
Students will receive nutrition support during primary education.
Contemporary social assistance and social services will be provided.
No one will be left hungry or hungry.
Social protection information system will be developed to ensure coordination of social services and social assistance
Social assistance and social services provided by different organizations for the needy, elderly, orphaned, powerless, disabled and citizens in need of special attention will be structured as a modern and integrated system.
A social protection information system will be developed to ensure that the truly poor benefit from social assistance programs in an equitable manner
and it will be ensured that no one goes hungry and no one goes hungry.
Social assistance activities of volunteer organizations will be supported.
However, benefactors and poor citizens will not be exploited.
Unjust benefits will be prevented by ensuring effective supervision of social assistance implementation, and
voluntary aid programs will not be allowed to exploit philanthropists and poor citizens.
Activities of local administrations, private sector and non-governmental organizations will be supported in cooperation with the central administration in order to deliver social assistance to the poor more effectively.
Effective and equitable social service and social assistance programs will be implemented
Regional development gaps will be eliminated
and social aid will be provided to those harmed by terrorism.
In addition to measures to eliminate regional development disparities in order to "reinforce social solidarity and brotherhood",
assistance will be provided from the Social Assistance and Solidarity Incentive Fund to citizens who have been harmed by terrorist incidents.
At least one member of families in need will be provided with a job, and
until a job is provided, a "Family Insurance Assistance" payment program of approximately 320 TL, half of the current minimum wage, will be initiated to provide social protection to families.
It will be essential that this payment is made primarily to housewives.
The increase in the minimum wage based on the minimum standard of living will be reflected in the amount of family insurance benefit.
Families in need will receive 320 lira "Family Insurance Aid".
The payment will be made to housewives.
Pensioners will be paid one salary once a year in September as winterization assistance.
It will be ensured that the social compensation payments made to veterans, families of martyrs, victims and invalids during the fight against terrorism are at a level that enables them to lead a dignified life, and it will be
ensured that they benefit from social housing free of charge.
Pensioners will be paid an additional salary.
Social compensation payments to veterans and families of martyrs will be increased.
Prioritizing the employment of veterans, families of martyrs, and those who have been victimized and disabled during the fight against terrorism,
contribute to production
and their reintegration into society will be ensured.
Poor people, veterans, families of martyrs, victims and invalids in the fight against terrorism will be provided with advantages in benefiting from public services;
in this context, special tariffs will be applied to electricity, natural gas, water and telephone services
and the cost will be covered by the state in cooperation with the relevant institutions.
The poor will be provided with social housing
and rental assistance.
Public services with special tariffs for the poor, veterans and families of martyrs.
Social housing will be provided to needy people who do not have a house, and
rent assistance will be provided in cases where housing cannot be provided.
The monthly pension paid to people over 65 who are in need will be increased from 105 liras to 250 liras.
The age 65 pension will be increased to 250 liras.
Veterans' pensions will be equal to the gross minimum wage.
The pensions granted to veterans of the War of Independence, Korea and Cyprus, as well as pensions granted for patriotic service will be increased to the gross minimum wage.
An arrangement will be made to increase the pensions of public officials and village guards who have been martyred or veteran in the fight against terrorism, and those who are assigned to protect security and public order, prevent, pursue and investigate smuggling, in case of disability or death, by at least the gross minimum wage.
Among the disabled citizens in need; the pensions of those who are over the age of 18 and disabled at a level that cannot continue their lives without the help of others will be increased from 315 liras to 450 liras,
The other disability pension and the pension for disabled relatives under the age of 18 will be increased from 210 liras to 300 liras.
The pensions of anti-terrorism veterans and relatives of martyrs will be increased by the gross minimum wage.
The maximum income amount (per capita family income less than 2/3 of the net minimum wage amount) required for the payment of home care fees to disabled people in need of care will be increased to the gross minimum wage amount.
The problem of food poverty will be solved through social assistance and income-increasing measures.
Support projects for groups at risk of impoverishment will be implemented.
Disability pensions will be increased.
The maximum income criteria for disability care assistance will be improved.
Infants and children under the age of five and pregnant or postpartum mothers will receive nutrition and health assistance.
All kinds of municipal fees and taxes will be abolished for individual or collective housing investments for the poor.
Families in need will be given spending cards (HILALKART) to meet their monthly basic needs.
The amount of social support payments under various names will be loaded onto these cards.
On the other hand, in order to support small shopkeepers, these cards will only be valid for shopping from shopkeepers in the neighborhood (district - town) of residence.
Poor families will be given a HILALKART to meet their basic needs.
16- EDUCATION AND HUMAN RESOURCES
Democratic and virtuous generations will be raised
The main objective of our education policy is to raise generations who are proud and conscious of belonging to the Turkish nation, who have internalized our spiritual and cultural values, who have developed thinking, perception and problem solving skills, who are open to new developments, who have a high sense of responsibility and social sensitivity, who are prone to science and technology production, who are entrepreneurial, democratic, cultured and faithful.
Equality of opportunity and opportunity in education will be ensured.
Democratic, entrepreneurial and faithful generations will be raised.
Equality of opportunity and opportunity in education and training will be ensured,
It will be essential to educate all members of society in line with their interests, inclinations and abilities.
We see the training of a workforce that is sensitive to labor demand and has the necessary equipment and skill flexibility as a strategic element to achieve the goal of a leading country.
Language of instruction is Turkish
There will be no mother tongue education in any language other than Turkish.
The language of instruction at all levels of education shall be Turkish, and no mother tongue instruction shall be provided in any language other than Turkish.
In order to ensure the correct and beautiful use of Turkish, importance will be given to teaching Turkish well in kindergarten and primary education.
The education system required by the information society will be established.
In addition, the infrastructure for teaching at least one foreign language to students in a good way will be created.
Education system required by the information society will be established
The education system will be restructured to ensure the training of a technologically advanced workforce equipped with the knowledge and skills required by the information society and capable of international competition.
In this framework, educational spaces, educational technologies and manpower opportunities will be raised to the standards required by the information society in terms of quality and quantity.
It will be essential to plan and implement the curriculum at all levels of education in accordance with national and contemporary requirements.
Religious education will be provided by the state in schools.
It will be ensured that religious education, which we believe makes important contributions to ensuring national unity and integrity,  rapprochement between citizens and the state, and eliminating various prejudices, will be provided by the state in schools.
Class sizes will be reduced to below thirty students at all levels of education
and dual education will be eliminated except under compulsory conditions.
Education infrastructure will be improved
and dual education will be ended.
Information technologies for educational purposes will be promoted.
Internet access will be made easy and cheap for all educational institutions and libraries from kindergarten to university.
Production and use of information technologies for educational purposes will be encouraged.
National software production for education programs will be ensured.
Classrooms will be encouraged to transform into private schools.
Examination systems will be aligned with formal education programs and
dershanes will be prevented from assuming the functions of primary and secondary education institutions.
Classrooms will be encouraged to transform into private schools.
Primary education system to adopt a two-tier model
Our goal for "basic education" is to increase the duration of compulsory basic education by expanding pre-school education, to
include secondary education within the scope of compulsory education by creating the necessary physical infrastructure and manpower capacity, and to
direct students to fields appropriate to their abilities by providing effective guidance at all levels of education.
Pre-school education will be expanded and
compulsory basic education will have two levels.
The duration of compulsory basic education will be increased to 9 years by including the 6-year-old age group in pre-school education
and will be structured in two stages.
In this context, developing an awareness of national integrity,
Preschool education will be expanded to strengthen moral and spiritual values and ensure socialization
and the population in this age group will be included in the formal education program at an earlier age.
Pre-school education covering 4-5 age group will be made widespread by improving physical space, manpower and program facilities.
The age limit for Quran education in mosques during the summer will be abolished.
The age limit for children to attend religious culture, ethics and Qur'an education in mosques during the summer will be abolished.
The production of publications, films and similar educational tools and materials with a wealth of national content that will help our children assimilate our spiritual and cultural values will be supported and their
use will be ensured.
Production of educational materials such as publications and films with national content will be supported.
From the sixth grade onwards, elective courses such as Reading and Understanding the Holy Qur'an, Catechism, and the Life of the Prophets will be offered to support religious education.
The life and philosophy of leading figures such as Hoca Ahmet Yesevi, Hacı Bektaşı Veli, Mevlana, Hacı Bayram Veli and Yunus Emre, who lived and kept alive the national and spiritual values of Turkishness and Islam, will be taught as elective courses in primary schools.
Courses to support religious education and the philosophy of our spiritual architects will be taught as electives.
Students will receive computer-aided recognition and guidance services
In primary education, student recognition techniques will be developed through computer-assisted "guidance"
and effective guidance will be provided through talent-oriented assessment methods.
From the sixth and seventh grades onwards, elective courses will be emphasized to help reveal talents and guide students towards a profession.
Educational opportunities for gifted students will be improved.
Successful students will be admitted to university without an exam.
Gifted and talented students will be provided with special education opportunities.
It will be ensured that high achieving secondary school students continue their university education without exams and with state scholarships according to their interests, wishes and abilities.
It will be ensured that individuals in need of special education will be identified, classified, special education institutions will be expanded and supervised, and education programs will be re-evaluated according to the needs of the day.
Special education services will be expanded to cover pre-school education, primary education, secondary education, higher education and adults.
Importance will be given to training special education teachers and auxiliary personnel.
Vocational education will be emphasized
In order to train the intermediate manpower needed by the economy, emphasis will be given to formal and non-formal vocational-technical education and skill-building education, and
education programs will be reorganized based on occupational standards.
Vocational-technical education and skill-building training will be emphasized.
Interaction between business life and vocational education will be improved.
The share of vocational education that increases employability in secondary education will be increased.
Program integrity will be ensured between vocational and technical secondary education institutions and vocational schools.
Relationship, communication and interaction between business life and vocational and technical education will be improved.
Secondary education will be based on program type
Secondary education will be structured in a way that is based on program type, allows horizontal and vertical transitions, and ensures effective transition to the university system through modern guidance and orientation services.
Higher education will be brought to a level that can compete with world universities
Private universities will be encouraged.
Teaching staff will be trained domestically.
Universities; educating the manpower that our country needs,
producing science and technology through research,
leading social development,
that finds solutions to problems with scientific methods,
educational institutions that compete with world universities will be essential.
Private universities will be encouraged.
Teaching staff will be trained domestically.
Specialization of universities in line with the potentials of the regions where they are located will be ensured.
Private university establishment will be encouraged by establishing an effective quality assessment and supervision system.
In order to train university lecturers and scientists domestically, universities will be specialized in master's and doctoral programs
and the necessary technical and academic infrastructure will be established.
Higher education system will be democratized
The Council of Higher Education will be restructured.
Rector elections will be two-tier.
The higher education system will be transformed into a more democratic and productive structure, and the
necessary cooperation and harmony between students, institutions and academic staff will be ensured.
The Council of Higher Education (YÖK) will be restructured by transforming it into a structure responsible for regulation, guidance, coordination, planning and supervision;
universities will be made administratively and financially autonomous and accountable.
Elections for rectors at universities will be based on democratic principles
and the President of the Republic will appoint the candidate who receives more than 50 percent of the votes among the two candidates who receive the highest number of votes in the second stage of the election process, which will be implemented in two stages.
Effective guidance will be provided in primary and secondary education
and the university entrance exam will be abolished.
University entrance exam to be abolished
Depending on the curriculum to be implemented, a university transition system based on the success of secondary education and the "maturation exam" to be held at the end of secondary education and taking equal opportunities into account will be put into practice.
The university entrance exam will be abolished;
instead, effective guidance will be provided in primary and secondary education.
Lifelong learning approach will be made dominant and
non-formal education opportunities will be improved.
Lifelong learning approach will be made dominant
Within the framework of lifelong learning approach, all kinds of non-formal education opportunities, including e-education, will be developed,
individuals' ability to choose, plan and program, distinguish, analyze and synthesize, develop critical and creative thinking skills and learn innovations will be improved, and
activities to provide young people with skills and vocational training will be expanded.
Conditions of service and financial and social rights of teachers will be improved
Conditions of service and financial and social rights of teachers and faculty members will be improved.
Teachers and faculty members equipped with the knowledge of the age will be trained and
these professions will be made attractive in terms of working conditions, personal and social rights.
Necessary research infrastructure in order to make our universities attractive for academic manpower who are abroad for graduate studies or academic membership
and employment opportunities will be created.
Personal rights and employment conditions of teachers and university professors will be raised to the level of modern standards.
Teachers, research assistants and lecturers will be paid 310 lira compensation.
Teachers, research assistants, lecturers and other teaching assistants will receive a "Research and Development Compensation" of approximately 310 TL per month, multiplied by the civil servant salary coefficient of five thousand indicators, to contribute to research and self-development activities.
Teachers will be promoted based on merit.
Contracted teachers will be given tenure.
An environment in which teachers can educate themselves and their students in the best possible way will be prepared.
The promotion of teachers will be based on achievement, and
evaluations will take into account the evaluation of parents and school management as well as the achievement of students.
Non-tenured contracted and temporary teachers will be transferred to permanent positions.
Retired teachers who are unable to benefit from the wage differentiation due to the grading among teachers will also be adjusted to benefit from this arrangement.
Retirees will also benefit from the differentiation in teacher salaries as a result of the gradualization.
Education preparation allowance will be extended to all staff working in educational institutions.
State will pay for the education of children of martyrs and veterans
Covering the education expenses of children of martyrs and veterans at all levels by the state
and to ensure that they are allocated a quota for entry to higher education.
Turkish children abroad will be provided with an education that preserves their cultural identity
The state will pay for the education of the children of martyrs and veterans.
Cultural identity of Turkish children abroad will be protected.
Educational opportunities provided for Turkish children abroad to preserve and develop their national identity will be increased.
17- YOUTH
Modern opportunities will be provided to the youth, the guarantee of our future
All problems of the youth will be solved.
Emphasis will be placed on ensuring that education prepares young people for economic and social life.
Investing in youth will be the most important investment for Turkey's future.
Our approach to youth problems will be holistic in terms of economic, social, cultural and psychological aspects.
Sociologists, psychologists and social workers will be utilized in addition to various professional staff during the research, planning and implementation phases.
Problems related to education, health, employment, social security and leisure time of young people will be solved.
Young people will have the opportunity to continue their higher education in the department of their choice.
The level of education will be increased by ensuring that young people benefit from education opportunities within the framework of equal opportunities
and the importance will be attached to ensuring that the education they receive prepares them for the conditions of the age and for economic and social life.
Young people will be given the opportunity to continue their higher education in the department of their choice within the framework of guidance in primary and secondary education and according to their abilities.
Creating platforms that will enable university students to participate in decisions related to them
and the development of mechanisms to ensure dialog between school management, faculty and students.
Dialogue mechanisms between the administration, faculty and students will be developed in universities.
Education-employment relations will be restored to a dynamic structure,
unemployment with a diploma will be prevented by making a human gücüplanlaması suitable for the needs
and finding a job will not be left to coincidence.
The dormitory problem of young people will be solved and no one will be left in the open, and
a monthly 100 lira shelter loan will be given.
Research and publicity activities aimed at getting to know youth problems and youth more closely will be accelerated
and the high potential power of youth will be directed to useful fields.
The needs of young people studying will be met
Scholarship and loan opportunities for young people studying in secondary and higher education will be improved,
housing opportunities at modern standards will be created, and
no student will be left in the open.
Poor students will be provided free accommodation in public dormitories.
Higher education students will receive a monthly "shelter loan" of 100 liras as dormitory and housing support.
If no job is found at the end of the grace period, loan repayment will be postponed.
Repayment of student loans will be postponed until the start of employment if no job is found at the end of the grace period.
Dormitories, libraries and reading rooms will be transformed into cultural centers and modern spaces where computer and internet use and social activities can be carried out.
Necessary opportunities will be provided for students in secondary and higher education to utilize their free time.
Physical and social barriers to the education of young people with disabilities will be eliminated.
In order for young people with disabilities to continue their education normally, the obstacles created by the physical and social environment will be eliminated and the
necessary educational infrastructure and technological facilities will be increased.
Vocational and technical training support will be provided to working youth
Apprenticeship Training Centers will be made efficient, effective and attractive.
Apprenticeship Training Centers will be made efficient, effective and attractive in order to overcome the knowledge and skill deficiencies of working youth, and it will be ensured that the technical workforce needed by the industry is provided from these centers.
Working conditions of young people will be organized in a way that allows them to continue their education and participate in social activities.
Youth will be equipped with national values and protected from bad habits
Young people will be equipped with national values
and protected from bad habits.
Youth will be raised equipped with national values against the elements that aim to eliminate the indivisible integrity of the state with its country and nation.
The reasons that push young people to crime will be eliminated, and
young people who have committed crimes and have been convicted will be reintegrated into society by removing them from being potential criminals.
To strengthen the family institution in order to protect and raise awareness of young people against smoking, alcohol and all kinds of drugs, gambling and similar habits, prostitution, anarchy and terrorism,
Emphasis will be placed on creating social and cultural environments where young people can express themselves,
Sports and social activity opportunities will be improved.
The reasons that push young people to crime will be eliminated.
Youth who have committed crimes will be reintegrated into society.
Youth centers will be established
A place for young people to spend their free time,
discover their personal talents,
"Youth Centers" will be established where they can benefit from various social and cultural opportunities and guidance services carried out with a scientific understanding.
Youth will be presented with idealistic role models.
Youth will be presented with idealistic role models
People who are prone to making easy money, who are unqualified, have no savings and lack virtue will be prevented from setting an example for the youth, and hardworking, determined, patriotic, visionary and moral people will be presented as an ideal through popular media such as cinema and television,
encouraging and incentive arrangements will be made to this end.
Multi-purpose and local characteristics will be taken into consideration in the establishment of sports fields and facilities, and
existing facilities will be utilized to their full capacity.
Young people whose projects are deemed appropriate will be supported and their participation in commercial life will be ensured.
Young entrepreneur support will be created
Young people will be supported to participate in commercial life by providing interest-free loans from state banks for young people whose projects are deemed appropriate.
Youth camps will be established for Turkish youth living abroad
The military service, integration, protection from alienation and strengthening the ties of the Turkish youth residing abroad will be discussed,
social, sportive and cultural development of our youth will be ensured in the youth camps to be established.
Youth camps will be established for Turkish youth living abroad.
Turkish youth living abroad and the youth of the Turkic world will participate in these camps.
18- SPORTS
Virtues such as love, morality, discipline, perseverance and diligence will be acquired through sports
Virtues such as love, morality, discipline, perseverance and diligence will be acquired through sports.
We consider the implementation of a national sports policy to improve the physical and mental health of every member of Turkish society, especially the youth, as a necessity of the social state understanding.
Emphasizing virtues such as love, morality, discipline, perseverance and effort as well as success in sports and contribution to social cohesion,
Establishing the necessary physical, technological and manpower infrastructure to train athletes in every field constitutes the basis of our national sports policy.
Amateur sports activities of local administrations and voluntary organizations will be supported.
Amateur sports activities of local administrations and voluntary organizations will be supported and
private sector organizations will be encouraged to support sports more.
Emphasis will be placed on training the necessary manpower in line with our national sports policy,
existing educational institutions will be improved, those with sufficient facilities and teaching staff will be transformed into 'Faculty of Sports Sciences', and
research and development activities will be accelerated.
Importance will be attached to the health of athletes,
sports medicine will be made widespread for this purpose, and
athletes will be brought under the umbrella of social security.
Athlete health and social security will be prioritized.
Traditional sports will be developed.
Necessary measures will be taken to develop and popularize traditional sports along with modern sports branches, and
oil wrestling and javelin will be internationalized.
International promotion of centers suitable for winter sports will be made by creating adequate infrastructure.
Turkic world friendship and brotherhood games will be organized.
Sports activities in schools will not only aim at physical development, but will also ensure that students acquire and develop social, spiritual, mental and moral qualities.
Turkic world friendship and brotherhood games will be organized, and
friendship and brotherhood of the Turkic world will be reinforced through sports.
Necessary investments will be made to organize international sports organizations and Olympic Games in every branch in our country
and activities in this field will be supported.
Initiatives to organize international sports organizations in Turkey will be supported.
Easily accessible and sufficient areas for sports will be made widespread in cities.
Sports facilities belonging to public institutions will be prevented from remaining idle, and
full-time use of these facilities will be ensured by establishing a member registration system.
A law on amateur and professional sports clubs will be enacted and the management of sports clubs through the law on associations will be ended.
19- CULTURE AND ARTS
Ensuring the widespread, correct and beautiful use of Turkish
Widespread, correct and beautiful use of Turkish will be ensured.
Language is one of the basic elements that make a nation a nation.
The correct and beautiful use of Turkish, which we see as an indispensable element of our national identity, will be essential.
Practices that lead to the degeneration and destruction of Turkish in all kinds of press-publications, advertisements, films, theater works and in daily and commercial life will not be allowed.
Turkish will not be allowed to degenerate
and its correct use will be ensured.
The correct use of Turkish will be ensured in education, training, arts, culture, scientific institutions and the media.
Turkish language research will be emphasized and
efforts will be made to use Turkish as a language of science, art, trade and tele-communication at the international level.
For the purpose of teaching Turkish and promoting Turkish culture, Turkish cultural centers abroad, particularly in Turkic Republics and European countries, will be expanded
and services will be provided effectively.
Turkish language research will be emphasized.
Turkish will be ensured to be understandable and usable in all dialects.
Relations with Turkic states and communities will be based on the principle of "unity in language, thought and work".
As a fundamental element of developing economic and cultural cooperation, importance will be given to language and cultural research in Turkish-speaking countries and communities, and
conditions will be created for Turkish to be understandable and usable in all its dialects.
National culture will be protected, developed and promoted
It will prevent culture shock and identity crisis, especially among new generations, in the face of different cultures;
Efforts will be made to ensure that national cultural values are introduced and adopted by the nation in order to produce high quality and responsive works.
National cultural values will be introduced and adopted by the nation.
Research will be carried out to reveal the history of Turkish science, culture and thought in all its richness.
A "national culture industry" will be established to keep Turkish culture and arts alive.
A "national culture industry" will be established in order to sustain, develop, promote and popularize Turkish culture and arts.
Practices that result in the erosion of our national cultural values, that cause a confusion of cultural values, that disrupt the basic national consensus on our cultural life, and that are examples of indifference and hostility will be prevented.
By developing international cultural cooperation programs, Turkish culture will become a center of attraction for surrounding cultures.
Turkish culture will become a center of attraction for surrounding cultures.
Art and artists will be given importance
Art and artists should be in an understanding that is at peace with national values and assimilates them
and to lead society to unite around common values.
The artist will be taken under the social security umbrella and will be protected at every age and at every age.
In order to protect our arts and crafts, to provide social and economic benefits and to reflect our cultural values in the goods and services produced, they will be transferred to designs.
In this way, cultural values that are about to be forgotten will be kept alive
and transmitted to future generations in a healthy way.
Cultural values will be transferred to designs.
Art and artists will be given importance.
Traditional Turkish arts and folklore will be protected, developed and promoted.
Maintenance, repair and conservation of heirloom monuments;
A member of Turkish architecture;
The protection and development of Turkish architecture, music, theater, cinema and literature will be made a state policy.
Written works, which are our national cultural values, will be brought to society in today's written and spoken language.
Our historical artifacts will be restored to society
The destruction of written works in every field, which have been the fundamental values of our national culture for centuries, will be prevented and
these works will be brought to our society in today's written and spoken language.
The Ottoman Archive will be classified, organized and brought into today's literature.
Revealing historical facts in the light of scientific research and investigations
The archives will be examined by scholars in order to prevent distortions and slanders regarding Turkish history.
Turkish foundation works will be unearthed, protected and preserved;
foundations will be supported by the state and restored to their original purpose.
Our citizens abroad will be enabled to preserve their identity
and strengthen their ties with Turkey.
Ensure that our citizens abroad preserve their identity and strengthen their ties with Turkey
Measures will be taken to prevent our citizens abroad from breaking away from our national cultural values and to protect their identity,
care will also be taken to ensure that they do not come into conflict with the society in which they live.
Our cultural values will be ensured to be lived and kept alive, and mass media will be used for this purpose.
Mass media will be ensured to broadcast responsibly in order to keep cultural values alive.
Mass media will be ensured to broadcast in a socially responsible manner in living and maintaining our cultural values.
Cultural centers, scientific research institutions and museums will be expanded to ensure that our cultural values are lived and cherished,
access to these units will be facilitated
and young people will have free access to museums.
Cultural centers, scientific research institutions and museums will be expanded.
Cultural artifacts in all libraries, museums and archives of the Turkic World will be identified and classified according to their subjects and made available for use.
In terms of the formation of children's personalities and the assimilation of cultural values, a "national cartoon industry" will be developed
and our culture will be promoted through the export of the films to be produced.
A national computer games software industry will be promoted to prevent children from being influenced by foreign cultures through computer games.
A national cartoon industry and a national computer games software industry will be developed.
20- FAMILY, WOMEN AND CHILDREN
Factors weakening the family and its social functions will be eliminated
The institution of the family is of great importance in protecting, sustaining and transmitting national and spiritual values to future generations and in strengthening national unity and solidarity.
The family, which is the cornerstone of Turkish society, will be protected against negative developments caused by economic and social developments.
Family institution will be strengthened
and will be protected against all threats.
Factors weakening the family and its social functions will be eliminated.
Family institution will be strengthened,
Policies to protect the cohesion between family members and family integrity will be developed.
Regular social support will be provided to families in need.
Employment opportunities will be improved to ensure that every family has an adequate and continuous income.
Families earning income below the minimum living standard will be included in the social protection program based on the level of need and
regular social support will be provided within this framework.
In order to protect family unity, working spouses will be allowed to work in the same province.
Women's dignity will be enhanced in every field
Women's level of education will be increased and
their social position will be strengthened by ensuring that they play a greater role in the development process, business life and decision-making mechanisms.
Antidemocratic practices in higher education will be ended
and headscarves will no longer be a problem.
The headscarf issue will be resolved in order to put an end to anti-democratic and anti-human rights practices that prevent female students from benefiting from the opportunities offered in higher education.
By improving the employability of women, their disadvantaged position in the labor market will be prevented
and negative discrimination against women in working life will be eliminated.
Non-working housewives will be provided with vocational skills to contribute to the family budget and the national economy.
Negative discrimination against women in working life will end.
Regardless of their age, unmarried daughters and divorced or widowed women will be included among the dependents of their parents and will be entitled to health benefits if they do not have their own insurance, pension or income.
Unmarried daughters will benefit from their parents' health insurance at any age.
Violence and discrimination against women will end
Cultural, social, psychological and economic reasons that lead to women being subjected to violence will be eliminated, and
civil society organizations and the media will be made to act sensitively on this issue.
All kinds of outdated practices that cast a shadow on women's dignity, restrict their fundamental rights and freedoms, lead to their abuse and cause them to remain in the background in society will be ended.
Violence and discrimination against women will end, and
legal aid will be provided to women seeking their rights through the judiciary.
All forms of de facto and de jure discrimination against women will be ended.
Legal aid support will be provided to women who have been subjected to violence, harassment and abuse while seeking their rights through legal means.
Children's future will be secured
Improving children's quality of life
and their future will be secured.
The protection and upbringing of children in need of protection in their families will be supported
and the foster family system will be encouraged.
Programs will be prepared to encourage children to engage in activities that promote culture, arts, sports, folklore, reading and research habits.
The protection and upbringing of children in need of protection in their families will be supported
and the foster family system will be encouraged.
In addition, alternative care models will be developed for children in need of protection;
children between the ages of 0-12 of economically deprived families will be provided free of charge to benefit from day care services such as nurseries and children's clubs without being taken under protection.
Children will be protected against all kinds of rights violations and harmful broadcasts, and
child abuse will end.
Child abuse will end
Children will be protected against all kinds of harmful publications in print, visual and internet media that contain violence, sexuality and abuse, and encourage substance abuse and smoking.
Families will be made aware of media literacy and proper use of the internet.
Children will be protected against all forms of rights violations, including from their families.
Penalties for crimes against children will be aggravated and statute of
limitations will be prevented.
Child labor and all forms of child abuse will be prevented.
Children who are subjected to immoral and illegal pressures and violence such as forced labor, begging, purse snatching, and use in terrorist activities will be placed under the effective protection of the state
and their every need will be met by the state.
Aggravated penal sanctions will be introduced for crimes committed against children such as abduction, detention, harassment, abuse and incitement to commit crimes, and the statute
of limitations for crimes committed against children will be prevented.
21- HEALTH
A health system that makes life meaningful and valuable will be established
A health system that makes life meaningful and valuable will be established.
A health system that improves the quality of life and the joy of living, prolongs human life, is based on the satisfaction of citizens and service providers, and makes life meaningful and valuable will be established.
Preventive and basic health services will be provided free of charge.
Preventive and primary health care services will be provided free of charge by the state
Preventive health services and primary health care services will be provided free of charge by the state in accordance with the principles of equality and equity; easily accessible, usable and respectful of patient rights.
Family medicine will provide effective service and
equipped mobile health teams will work in rural areas.
Primary health care units will be strengthened
and family medicine, to which citizens will directly apply, will be ensured to provide effective services.
In rural areas, equipped health teams will provide mobile services.
In order to ensure continuity and accessibility in health services, an employment and wage policy that will ensure a balanced distribution of health manpower across the country will be implemented.
Prevention of non-communicable diseases will be ensured and
preventive health programs will be put into practice to reduce the risk factors that cause the development of non-communicable diseases such as cardiovascular diseases, cancer, diabetes, chronic respiratory diseases, which are among the leading causes of death.
Preventive health services will be activated for diseases that are among the leading causes of death.
Management capacity of hospitals will be improved
Technological infrastructure and manpower capabilities of hospitals will be improved and
management capacity will be enhanced.
Instead of chief physicians becoming hospital administrators, professional management will be introduced.
The management capacity of hospitals will be improved and
joint use of some hospital facilities will be ensured.
In hospitals, appointments for examinations, laboratory services and surgeries will be computerized
and intervention of health personnel in the appointment system will be strictly prevented.
A system will be developed to enable joint use of laboratory services, high-cost medical technology and similar hospital facilities between hospitals.
Hospitals will work full day - at full capacity
"Full day-full capacity work" will be ensured to avoid waiting in hospitals.
Better utilization of patient beds, equipment and manpower capacity in hospitals,
meeting patient demands in a timely manner
and "full-day-full-capacity work" will be ensured to minimize waiting time for services.
Personal rights of the personnel serving in this scope will be improved.
No additional payment, under any name whatsoever, that is not included in the fee schedule will be allowed.
Private health institutions will be encouraged
Private health institutions will be encouraged and
health free zones will be established to develop health tourism.
Private health institutions will be encouraged,
health free zones to be created
and effective supervision will be introduced.
The Social Security Institution will be able to purchase services from all public and private hospitals under a protocol.
The Social Security Institution, the Ministry of Health and private sector health service providers will jointly determine the standards, procedures and principles of the service and the beneficiary.
In addition to effective public oversight to prevent abuse of the system, self-regulatory mechanisms will be developed.
SSI will take an active role in cost and quality control in the pricing of medicines and medical supplies.
The Social Security Institution will play an active role in cost and quality control in the pricing of health services, pharmaceuticals and medical supplies.
All citizens will be covered by health insurance
All citizens will be covered by health insurance.
Premium-based health insurance will also cover poor citizens
, whose insurance premiums will be covered by the state.
All payments on behalf of the citizen will be made by the health insurance.
All citizens will be covered by health insurance and the
practice of co-payment in medical and inpatient treatment will be abolished.
All citizens will have the right to choose hospitals and physicians.
Co-payment for medical examinations and inpatient treatment will be eliminated.
Support will be given to the production of medicines, vaccines, serum and medical devices
Production of pharmaceuticals, vaccines, serums and medical equipment in Turkey and R&D activities in this field will be encouraged.
Export potential will be increased by enabling the domestic pharmaceutical industry to produce a wider range of products.
Production of pharmaceuticals, vaccines, serum and medical supplies and R&D activities will be encouraged.
By developing a drug tracking system, "smart drug use" will become a principle for healthcare personnel and a behavioral pattern for patients.
Develop a realistic drug pricing system,
Establishing an effective control mechanism from the production or importation of medicines and medical supplies to their use in the patient,
Necessary arrangements will be made to implement a healthy prescription and invoice control system.
Pharmaceutical advertising and promotional activities that lead to higher prices will not be allowed to exceed their intended purpose.
Pharmaceutical companies will not be allowed to exceed the purpose of advertising and promotional activities aimed at pharmacies and physicians, which affect the behavior of health personnel, lead to drug waste and increase drug prices,
and professional corruption will be prevented.
Modern standards will be achieved in medical education
It will be ensured that medical education is provided according to modern standards, and that health personnel are assigned where needed after serving for a certain period of time in well-equipped health facilities in order to prepare them for the profession.
Medical education will be provided at contemporary standards.
Emergency aid services will be activated
An emergency service network will be established to rapidly respond to emergency cases, and
manpower, physical equipment and vehicle-equipment facilities will be improved in order to provide emergency aid services in an additional, fast and high quality manner.
Emergency aid services will be activated, and
fully equipped air and ground ambulance services will be developed for rapid response to traffic accidents.
Fully equipped air and ground ambulance services will be developed to serve on routes where traffic accidents are common.
e-health information system will be established
An e-health information system with electronic access to all health institutions and individual health data will be established.
Through this system, duplicate procedures will be prevented, hash procedures will be prevented, and
patients will be monitored in the home environment.
Working life will be organized in a way that takes into account the rights of workers and employers and the protection of work.
22- WORKING LIFE AND SOCIAL SECURITY
A working life in which rights are protected in a balanced manner will be established
Working life will be organized within the framework of policies that take into account the protection of work as well as the protection of the rights of workers and employers in a balanced manner.
Flexible working methods will be put into practice in a secure manner and
necessary arrangements will be made in the field of working life and social insurance.
A wage system based on merit and success will be established and
wage earners will share in economic growth.
to eliminate the wage imbalance among employees.
A wage system based on merit and success will be established
Instead of determining wages with an approach that takes into account only the increase in the rate of inflation, it will be ensured that workers will share in economic growth.
The determination of the minimum wage will be based on the minimum standard of living.
As of 2011, the net minimum wage will be 825 liras.
The income tax rate for wage earners will be gradually reduced to 10 percent.
The net minimum wage will be 825 liras and
income tax for wage earners will be reduced to 10 percent.
Arrangements will be made to help resolve individual labor disputes without going to court by ensuring that they go through a mediation process consisting of employee, employer and public representatives.
A sustainable social insurance system in modern norms will be established
The social insurance system will be in modern norms and sustainable.
In order for citizens to be sure of their future and to lead a high standard life, a social insurance system will be established in modern norms that operates on the basis of blessing-burden to cover the entire population.
The social insurance system will be made "enforceable" in terms of its legal dimension, "sustainable" in terms of its financial dimension and "acceptable" to the relevant parties.
Those whose compulsory insurance coverage has ended because they have not reached the age limit and their dependents will be able to benefit from health services.
The information technologies infrastructure of the social security system will be strengthened and a structure that provides effective, accessible and sustainable services that prevent loss of rights and duplicate utilization will be established.
Social insurance programs will be managed in an effective and autonomous structure with actuarial balance, and
fund management will be activated to ensure the sustainability of the system.
Persons who have completed the number of premium days but cannot retire because they have not reached the age limit and whose compulsory insurance coverage has ended, and their dependents, will be able to benefit from health services within the scope of health insurance.
Loss of rights and duplicate benefits in social security will be prevented.
A social security system that provides fast, effective and accessible services that prevent loss of rights and duplication of benefits will be established.
Preventing uninsured work
Uninsured work and employment will be prevented and the
number of active insured will be increased.
The number of active insured will be increased by preventing uninsured work and employment
and in this way, both the sustainability of the system will be ensured,
and victimization of the insured will be prevented.
Formalization will be encouraged through measures to be taken on issues such as legislation, cost, inadequate supervision and bureaucracy that lead to unregistered employment.
Trade union rights and multiple consultation mechanism to be established
Trade union rights will be brought in line with modern norms.
It will be ensured that the concept of civil servant is redefined and that employees outside a narrowed concept of civil servant are provided with modern trade union rights.
Modern trade union rights and a multi-consultation mechanism will be established.
Multiple consultation mechanisms in labor life will be strengthened to solve problems in labor life and to establish labor peace
and effective participation of the parties will be ensured.
Instead of only engaging in wage unionism, trade unions should concentrate on training and research activities, and focus on skill acquisition programs to adapt to changes in the business environment and technology.
and contribute to labor peace.
Trade unions will be encouraged to focus on training and research activities.
Respect for rights will be taken as a basis in industrial relations,
importance will be given to the resolution of labor disputes with good faith approaches, and
obstacles to organization will be removed.
Occupational standards system will be activated
Occupational standards, examination and certification system will be effectively institutionalized.
The "Occupational Standards Examination and Certification System", which will directly affect the quality of education and the skill level of the workforce and ensure coordination between education and the labor market, will be effectively institutionalized.
Problems regarding the working life of our citizens abroad will be eliminated
All kinds of initiatives will be taken within the framework of international law and inter-state relations to protect the rights and laws of our citizens abroad and to eliminate the problems and difficulties they face in the countries where they are located.
The rights and laws of our citizens abroad will be protected.
Problems related to visas and work permits will be resolved.
Within this framework, our citizens living abroad should be subjected to equal treatment with the citizens of the countries in which they live, in the exercise of the fundamental rights arising from being human, in wages and working conditions, in education, in settling and starting a business, and in the establishment of family unity.
and all kinds of vested rights will be protected,
social and economic exclusion will be prevented.
Problems related to visas and work permits will be resolved through measures.
Work accidents will be prevented, worker health and safety will be prioritized
All kinds of technical, legal and administrative measures will be taken to ensure occupational health and safety in modern norms
and inspections will be activated.
Worker health and occupational safety will be ensured in modern norms and
inspections will be activated.
The operation of mines will be carried out by utilizing the technological developments of the age
and worker health and safety will not be compromised.
A lower limit will be introduced to ensure that the permanent incapacity income granted due to disability resulting from work accidents does not fall below a certain income level.
It will be ensured that the permanent incapacity benefit does not fall below a certain income level.
23-ELDERLY AND PENSIONERS
No elderly will be left hungry, exposed and destitute
Believing that the way to keep the state alive is to keep people alive, that the value of countries will increase with the value it gives to its people, and that in order to look to the future with confidence, retired and elderly people must be provided with a dignified life, our Party will not leave any elderly person hungry, exposed and in need, and will
not allow them to be condemned to loneliness and excluded from society.
Our party will not leave any elderly person hungry, vulnerable and in need.
Policies for the elderly will be comprehensive, covering the periods of youth and active work that prepare them for old age.
Achieving economic independence in old age depends on preparedness before old age, ensuring that everyone is permanently employed in decent jobs
and that their rights are protected during the employment process.
The sick, disabled and poor elderly will be protected and cared for and their joy of life will be increased
and social policies that will protect the quality of life will be put into practice.
Abuse and neglect of the elderly will not be tolerated.
Policies for the elderly will be such as to prepare them for old age.
Health, care and assistance services will be provided at modern standards
The elderly will be provided with easy access to health services, the
standard of elderly health services will be raised and effective utilization of these services will be ensured.
Solutions will be brought to the problems of illness and need for care that reduce the quality of life in old age, and
social policies that will increase the joy of life and protect the quality of life of the elderly will be put into practice.
The elderly will be provided with care and assistance services at modern standards to enable them to continue their daily lives.
"Elderly Care Homes" will be built in settlements over a certain population.
Support services will be developed to meet the daily needs of the elderly living alone.
In this context, support services will be provided to the elderly in need, such as cleaning, daily care and shopping at their homes.
A caregiver/companion system will be developed for the elderly and sick in need.
The elderly will have easy access to health services and will be provided with
care and assistance services at modern standards.
Social care assistance will be provided
"Social care assistance" will be paid to needy families who are obliged to take care of their elderly to protect and care for them and to meet all their physical, economic and social needs.
Social support payments to the elderly in need will be increased.
It will be ensured that social support payments are based on the fact that they are a social right, rather than being perceived as a handout.
The experiences of the elderly will be presented to the community
Elderly people in need will be provided with support services such as cleaning, daily care and shopping at their homes.
Opportunities and facilities will be provided for the elderly to integrate with the society, participate in cultural and sports activities and utilize their free time by creating a social environment necessary for them to present their knowledge, life experiences and skills to the society and transfer them to young people.
Pensions will be determined by a separate index
The elderly will be enabled to transfer their knowledge and experience to the community and young people.
Instead of the general inflation index, increases in pensions will be based on a special index that takes into account the consumption patterns and living standards of this group.
In addition, the increase in welfare provided by economic growth will be reflected in pensions.
Adjustment regulations will be made in order to eliminate the victimization caused by the regulations leading to different pensions.
24- DISABLED
Integration of people with disabilities into society will be ensured
Increases in pensions will be made according to a special index,
eliminating the victimization caused by different pensions.
Integrating people with disabilities into society and enabling them to live their lives without needing the help of others,
Elimination of barriers created by the physical and social environment so that they can continue their education and social life normally,
The necessary educational infrastructure and technological facilities will be increased,
Provisions of zoning legislation related to the disabled will be effectively implemented.
Disability care services will be recognized as a social right
People with disabilities will be able to live their lives without needing the help of others.
Disability care services will be recognized as a social right and will be evaluated within the social security system and will be provided in relation, interaction and cooperation with medical, social and vocational rehabilitation services.
Medical and vocational rehabilitation opportunities of disabled citizens will be increased.
All kinds of support will be provided to disabled people during their vocational rehabilitation.
Disabled people will be prioritized for job placement
Rehabilitation opportunities for disabled citizens will be increased, and
priority will be given to job placement.
Prioritized job placement of persons with disabilities,
contribute to production
and their reintegration into society will be ensured.
It will be ensured that children with disabilities are primarily raised by their families and prepared for life
, and social support payments will be made to needy families with disabled children.
Epidemiological diseases to be prevented
In order to prevent epidemiological diseases that cause physical and mental disabilities, preventive, preventive and early diagnosis services will be activated
and diagnosis and treatment of these diseases will be free of charge within the scope of preventive health services.
Social support payments will be made to needy families with disabled children, and
equipment support will be provided to the disabled.
Equipment support will be provided to people with disabilities
Support will be provided in the provision of tools, equipment and orthotics-prosthetics that facilitate the daily life of the disabled, and
health institutions will be accessible to the disabled.
25- URBANIZATION AND HOUSING
Healthy, livable cities will be created
Our urbanization policy is to ensure local development,
Improving the quality of life of citizens,
protection of water resources and the environment,
will serve to build livable cities with modern infrastructure.
Livable cities with modern infrastructure will be built.
Settlement and urbanization to be sensitive to disasters,
protect and preserve natural, historical and cultural assets,
We envisage to contribute to the creation of an urban culture.
Provision of education, health, social services, culture, transportation and urban infrastructure services in a fast, safe, timely, cheap and accessible manner will be a requirement of healthy urbanization along with other policies.
Contribution will be made to the creation of a culture of urbanity.
By completing the upper-scale plans, the infrastructure for orderly urbanization will be established by eliminating the confusion in site selection for housing, industry, tourism, agriculture and similar purposes.
In order to create livable cities, industrial, technological and industrial zones, financial and commercial centers with the necessary infrastructure will be established in addition to modern equipped housing areas.
The infrastructure for orderly urbanization will be created by making high-scale plans, and the
relationship between the rate of urbanization and land supply will be established.
By establishing a city management information system, planning for the geographical, human and physical structure of the city, transportation, communication and other service needs, and
being sensitive to disasters will be ensured.
In addition to leaving a healthy environment and city infrastructure for future generations, urban plans are also important,
cultural and natural structure,
to ensure the creation of settlements compatible with a habitable environment.
Our cities will be branded with products that stand out and are identified with the identity of the city.
In order to prevent urban agglomeration and unplanned construction due to industrialization and migration, the relationship between urbanization rate and land supply will be established.
Our cities will be branded with products that stand out and are identified with the identity of the city.
Zoning authority will be prevented from being used to create urban rents and to give away public resources.
Institutional multi-headedness in this field will be eliminated through an administrative structure that will include zoning-planning, land registry, cadastre, urbanization, environment, natural disasters and settlement.
Abuse of zoning authority and arbitrary practices in zoning planning and changes will be prevented.
Arbitrary practices in zoning planning and changes that cause victimization of citizens will be ended.
In order to prevent cultural degeneration in cities, emphasis will be placed on the creation of an urban and urban culture within the framework of the fundamental determinant of national culture.
Urban transportation systems will be established in an integrated manner, and
transportation and traffic infrastructure will be planned in a structure that will enable people to reach where they want to go in a cheap, safe and comfortable way as soon as possible.
Everyone will have a dwelling where they can live humanely
Urban transportation systems will be established in an integrated manner.
We believe that it is a requirement of human rights for everyone to have a dwelling where they can live humanely.
Appropriate methods and financing models will be put into practice to enable citizens with low and fixed incomes to acquire housing.
Social housing will be built by the state for the needy and orphans.
Land speculation will be prevented by converting state-owned land into land, thereby
reducing housing costs.
Everyone will have a dwelling where they can live humanely, and
social housing will be built for the needy and orphans.
Taking into account the lifestyles and unique qualities of our citizens and the characteristics of settlements, different social housing will be produced in line with the needs.
The use of technology and standard materials based on thermal insulation and earthquake resistance will be ensured in the production of housing and all kinds of buildings;
emphasis will be given to the production of healthy, safe, quality and affordable housing, and
effective supervision will be carried out from the ground survey stage to the housing license stage.
Technology and materials based on thermal insulation and earthquake resistance will be used in building production.
Building supervision and insurance system will be expanded.
The real estate inventory of our country will be prepared and existing buildings will be defined in terms of quality and quantity
, and urbanization and housing policies will be guided accordingly.
The quality of the existing housing stock will be improved.
Slums will be rehabilitated and
urban transformation projects will be implemented.
Slum areas will be rehabilitated and their social and economic integration with urban centers will be ensured.
Measures will be taken to minimize the impact of the disaster
Geographical and geological surveys for all kinds of construction have been completed,
The establishment will be ensured in areas that are safe against earthquakes, floods, landslides and other natural disasters,
In existing settlements, urban transformation projects will be implemented accordingly.
Settlements in disaster-prone areas in rural areas will be relocated to safer areas in terms of disasters.
Measures to ensure that disaster damages are minimized will be taken in advance.
It will be ensured that the damages of natural disasters can be minimized by being ready in all legal, physical and humanitarian fields before being exposed to disaster.
Land use and zoning plans will be based on risk priorities and arrangements will be made to prevent construction in risky areas.
Technology and standard materials based on earthquake resistance will be used in building production.
Construction in risky areas will be prevented,
disaster preparedness and emergency response methods will be explained.
Disaster preparedness, emergency response methods and behaviors that must be applied before, during and after the disaster will be explained to the citizens through educational institutions and mass media.
26- ENVIRONMENT
Our people will be ensured to live in a clean and healthy environment
It will be essential to live in a clean and healthy environment and to pass on a livable environment to future generations.
The right to live in a clean and healthy environment is one of the fundamental rights of every human being.
The basis of our environmental policy is to overcome environmental problems with a sustainable development model that envisages rational protection, use and development instead of the development - environmental protection dilemma, and to pass on a livable environment with clean, natural and cultural values to future generations.
Natural, historical and cultural values will be protected
Based on science and reason to prevent the pollution, destruction and loss of natural, historical and cultural values,
from a perspective that does not conflict with our history, culture, beliefs and national interests.
Natural, historical and cultural values and ecological balance will be protected.
Economic and social policies will be harmonized with environmental policies, and
human health, ecological balance, cultural, historical and aesthetic values will be protected while realizing development.
The use of environmentally friendly technology will be encouraged.
Environmental awareness will be raised
In order to strengthen the understanding of protecting our natural riches as a society, environmental sensitivity will be developed,
the media will be ensured to broadcast with social responsibility and the education curriculum will be enriched.
Emphasis will be given to environmental sensitivity in the location selection of investment projects, and the
use of environmentally friendly technology in investments will be encouraged.
Environmental police and specialized environmental courts will be established to ensure effectiveness in environmental control.
In order to ensure a healthy structure for tourism, industry, agriculture and urbanization, environmental plans will be completed throughout the country.
Environmental problems will not be addressed as problems to be solved after the occurrence of pollution, but as an element of the general development plan within the framework of predetermined criteria.
Environmental police and specialized environmental courts will be established to ensure effectiveness in environmental control.
An environmental information system will be established.
Meteorological measurement stations will be developed in such a way that they can also perform measurements related to environmental pollution, and the database to be created will be made available during the project design phase of new facilities.
An environmental information system will be established, and
meteorology will also measure environmental pollution.
Cities, rural settlements and the natural environment will be made clean and livable, and
a sustainable natural environment will be passed on to future generations.
Holistic environmental policies will be pursued
Integrated environmental policies that take into account water, air, soil and sea together will be developed.
Coastal area planning and management will be implemented, taking into account the environment of the coast, sea, rivers, lakes, artificial lakes and other wetlands and ecosystems as a whole, and
integrated environmental policies that take into account water, air, soil and sea together will be developed.
Fertile agricultural lands will be protected,
misuse and erosion will be prevented.
Emphasis will be given to education and informing the public in order to strengthen the understanding of protecting our natural riches as a society and to develop environmental awareness.
Biodiversity will be protected
Biodiversity will be protected and
risks regarding biosafety and GMOs will be reduced.
The biological diversity and genetic resources of our country will be researched,
protected and provided with economic value.
Agriculture, environment and technology policies will be addressed together to minimize risks related to biosafety and genetically modified organisms.
Efficiency in the use of water resources will be ensured
Efficient use of national resources will be ensured by preventing losses and leakages in existing water supply facilities.
Efficiency in the use of water resources will be ensured and the
use of wastewater in agriculture and industry will be encouraged.
Protection of underground and surface water resources from pollution,
utilization of these resources in a way to maintain hydrological balance
and use of wastewater for agriculture and industry will be encouraged.
Investments for wastewater treatment and recycling of solid wastes as an economic value will be given importance and priority
and industrial enterprises and municipalities will be encouraged for this purpose.
Water basins will be protected and
water losses will be prevented.
Water basins will be protected, water resources will be kept under control, and
systems to prevent water losses in irrigation channels and other waterways will be developed.
27- TOURISM
Preserving the authenticity of Turkish tourism
The natural, historical, cultural and other riches of our country will be utilized in a way to create high added value with an understanding that is sensitive to the environment, respectful to history, preserves its authenticity and ensures its sustainability.
Four-season tourism potential will be mobilized.
Four-season tourism potential will be mobilized
In order to properly utilize the rich tourism potential of our country, promotion and marketing will be made more effective and the potential will be utilized in all seasons.
In this framework, a structure covering the entire sector will be established to ensure cooperation and coordination among public, private and non-governmental organizations.
Tourism in our country will be diversified,
Branding of certain regions in the world tourism market will be ensured.
Customer diversification will be achieved
Branding of certain regions in the world tourism market will be ensured.
In addition to traditional markets, a long-term tourism policy that aims to open up to new markets and create a new image of Turkey and that envisages cooperation and coordination between the private sector and non-governmental organizations will be implemented.
Taking into account changing consumer preferences, tourism development will be ensured in regions that have been underutilized to date.
A tourism policy aimed at creating a new image of Turkey will be implemented.
A wealth of alternatives will be provided
Tourism will be enriched thematically
and alternative tourism areas such as marine tourism, yacht tourism, history and museum tourism, cave tourism, winter tourism, mountain tourism, health tourism, faith tourism and congress tourism will be developed.
In order to make good use of the tourism potential, promotion and marketing will be made more effective and a larger share of the world tourism revenues will be ensured.
Alternative areas will be opened to tourism,
tourism will be developed in untapped regions,
free health zones will be established and health tourism revenues will be increased.
Health tourism will be popularized
By establishing "Free Health Zones", investment and employment opportunities will be provided and
our health tourism revenues will be increased.
In this framework, public land and facilities, especially in tourism regions, will be allocated free of charge.
Direct foreign capital inflow and continuity of demand will be ensured by supporting the partnership of private health institutions abroad in companies to be established in these regions.
28- ESTABLISHMENT OF PUBLIC ORDER
Social peace and trust will be established
An environment of social peace and trust will be ensured throughout our country.
The state will use its legal authority in a caring and compassionate manner to create an environment in which citizens feel safe and secure.
A climate of social peace and trust will be established throughout our country.
Preventive law enforcement services will be emphasized.
Factors that pave the way for disorder will be eliminated.
Intelligence services will be activated to prevent crimes before they turn into attempts,
methods will be developed to ensure that citizens assist security forces, and
the security and confidentiality of citizens who assist will be guaranteed.
Preventive law enforcement services will be emphasized and
intelligence services will be activated.
Public order incidents, especially in big cities, will be prevented and
measures will be taken to eliminate threats to the security of life and property of citizens.
In this context, security guards with the necessary technical equipment will be employed to work between 22.00-06.00,
security camera systems will be expanded, and
24-hour supervision and control will be ensured, especially in big cities.
Threats to the security of life and property of our citizens will be eliminated.
In the field of smuggling and organized crime organizations, a mixed law enforcement force, which is not subject to local borders, will be implemented from the borders.
Security problems arising from unhealthy structures and urbanization caused by migration will be eliminated.
It will be ensured that children who commit crimes and are prone to crime are brought back into society through education and vocational training in cooperation with their families, if any, and through the protection and rehabilitation of those who do not have families.
A mixed law enforcement force, which is not subject to provincial borders, will be introduced in the field of smuggling and organized crime organizations.
Effective coordination between security services will be ensured
Necessary arrangements will be made to ensure that security units are adequately equipped in terms of legal, administrative, technical and human resources against all kinds of asymmetric threats to social peace and national security.
Children who commit crimes and are prone to crime will be reintegrated into society.
Effective coordination will be ensured between units in institutional structuring, intelligence activities, information flow and the fight against crime.
Working conditions, financial and social rights of security personnel will be improved
Working conditions of security personnel will be improved and working hours will be shortened.
All security personnel will receive a "security compensation" of approximately 310 TL multiplied by the civil servant monthly coefficient of five thousand indicators, and village guards will receive a "security compensation" of approximately 155 TL multiplied by the civil servant monthly coefficient of two thousand five hundred indicators.
In parallel with this, security personnel pensions will be increased by 100 TL and village guard pensions by 50 TL.
All security personnel will receive 310 liras and village guards will receive 155 liras in "security compensation".
An arrangement will be made to allow police officers to be promoted up to the last step of the first degree, as in the case of university graduates with equivalent status, and their grievances regarding their retirement rights will be eliminated.
In order to prevent traffic terrorism, which causes great loss of life and property, highways will be brought in line with international standards,
training activities on prevention of driver errors will be made widespread,
traffic inspections and penalties will be made more effective and the self-control system will be improved.
Measures will be taken to prevent traffic terrorism, which causes great loss of life and property.
29-FIGHT AGAINST TERRORISM
Our nation will be saved from the scourge of terrorism
Terrorism will be fought against
and our nation will be liberated from the scourge of terrorism as soon as possible.
We see the understanding that adopts terrorism and violence as a method and considers them legitimate to achieve its goals as a threat to the survival of the Republic of Turkey, the peace and security of our nation and humanity.
In the fight against terrorism, a "total fight" approach will be established instead of a terrorist-centered approach.
Recognizing terrorism and anarchy as one of the greatest dangers threatening the security of life and property of our people, our national unity, our democracy and our economic development, our Party will treat the fight against terrorism as a national policy that must not be neglected under any circumstances.
In the fight against terrorism, the guilty will be distinguished from the innocent,
the public will not be harmed.
During the fight against terrorism, the unjust will be distinguished from the righteous, the innocent from the guilty
, and the fight will be carried out decisively with the methods of the rule of law.
In order to eradicate terrorism, an effective struggle will be waged by the security forces of the state on legitimate grounds and all over the country.
The necessary political will and determination will be fully demonstrated.
Care will be taken to ensure that the people of the region are not harmed in the fight against terrorism, and
all measures will be taken to make a clear distinction between the terrorist organization and our innocent citizens.
The elements that feed terrorism will be eliminated.
In addition to the struggle carried out by security units, a strategy covering economic, social, psychological, administrative, demographic and cultural elements will be implemented to eliminate the factors that feed terrorism.
A comprehensive economic and social development program will be implemented.
To this end, a comprehensive "Economic and Social Development Program" will be implemented in accordance with the realities and needs of the region.
The necessary financial support, economic resources and special incentives and protection measures will be rapidly provided and implemented.
The Southeastern Anatolia Project (GAP) will be treated as the highest priority strategic investment
and will be completed and made available to the people of the region as soon as possible.
Internal and external elements supporting terrorism will be effectively combated
GAP will be treated as a priority strategic investment
and will be completed as soon as possible.
Opinions that praise terrorism and terrorists, present terrorists as the representatives of citizens, present terrorist demands as citizen demands, threaten the indivisible integrity of the state with its country and nation, engage in political separatism, and try to create an artificial base for terrorism by making ethnic and religious provocations will be considered as acts supporting terrorism.
Effective measures will be taken against the international dimensions of terrorism and its political, logistical and financial support.
All kinds of effective and result-oriented initiatives and measures will be decisively implemented against countries that support terrorism within the framework of international law.
Effective measures will be taken against domestic and foreign political, logistical and financial support of terrorism.
Drug, fuel and human trafficking, which provide financial support to terrorism, will be effectively combated.
Elements that allow PKK terrorist elements to shelter on their territory and use the terror card as a tool of threat against Turkey will be warned in clear language, reminding them that this is a declaration of hostility, and an
effective deterrence strategy that includes coercive sanctions supported by political, economic and military measures will be put into practice to end this support immediately.
Drug, fuel and human trafficking, which provide financial support to terrorism, will be prevented.
In this context, all our rights recognized by international law will be used decisively against terrorist elements outside the territory of the country.
Turkey's security will not be left to the will, permission and initiative of third parties.
Turkey's security will not be left to the will, permission and initiative of third parties.
There will be absolutely no general, special or political amnesty for terrorism offenses under any name or in any form.
The terrorist leader in İmralı will definitely be prevented from leading the organization and
necessary measures will be taken immediately.
The terrorist leader's special residency in İmralı will be terminated and
he will be placed in an F-type prison where he will serve his life sentence in complete isolation.
Effective methods will be applied in the fight against terrorism
There will be no general, special or political amnesty for terrorism offenses.
An effective fight will be waged against all acts of terrorism and violence that threaten the security of life and property of the society and our national integrity.
In the fight against terrorism, priority will be given to informing and enlightening the public, psychological and socio-cultural measures.
Terror and public order incidents will be prevented before they happen.
Our main goal will be to prevent terrorism and public order incidents before they occur by conducting research on the economic, social and other factors that feed terrorism.
Technological means will be utilized at the highest level in the fight against terrorism
and the intelligence network will be strengthened.
All practices that give the terrorist organization the courage to negotiate with or threaten the state will be abolished.
All practices that give the terrorist organization the courage to negotiate with the state or threaten it will be abolished.
In order to ensure effectiveness in the fight against terrorism, the confusion of authority and responsibility between institutions will be eliminated and security and intelligence units will be made more effective.
Priority will be given to the establishment of a physical and technological border security system, particularly on the Iraqi border.
Emphasis will be placed on public relations and social awareness raising activities
The cultural commonalities of society will be emphasized, and
historical and scientific records and facts about human structure and folklore will be made available to the public.
Unjust accusations against the state, security forces and the public will be ended, the public will be informed correctly and the
state and citizens will be embraced.
Society's cultural commons will be emphasized,
state and citizen will be embraced.
will be made an area of responsibility shared by society, the public and the private sector
activities will be carried out to raise public awareness for this purpose.
The security of the country will not be perceived as the duty of certain organizations, as has been the case until today, but the legal and administrative arrangements needed will be made, the
lack of organization and coordination will be eliminated and an effectively functioning institutional structure will be established.
Regional economic and social disparities and lack of organization and coordination will be eliminated.
At the same time as establishing security, eliminating the inequality in income distribution that leads to the exploitation of the population
Priority will be given to eliminating regional economic and social disparities.
The divisive and discriminatory effects on the social structure will be eliminated.
Separatist terror will be eradicated
Terrorism will be fought, not negotiated,
and it will be eradicated.
Terrorism will be fought, not negotiated.
With a determined struggle, separatist terrorism, including its international extensions, will be ended once and for all as soon as possible.
30- SECURITY AND DEFENSE POLICY
A strong and deterrent army will be established
A strong and deterrent defense system will be established and made sustainable due to Turkey's geo-strategic position, its obligations arising from its historical and cultural heritage, and its role in the establishment of regional and world peace.
National security will become a shared responsibility of the entire society, public and private sectors.
To enable the Turkish Armed Forces to fulfill its mission successfully and in accordance with the conditions of the age and to increase its mobility
and to increase its deterrence,
A military modernization program will be initiated to ensure that it becomes one of the most powerful armies in the world in terms of weapons, equipment and the ability to use advanced technology.
TAF's mobility will be increased, its
deterrence will be enhanced
and modernized.
The mobility of the Turkish Armed Forces will be increased by expanding the employment of personnel specialized and expert in the use of advanced technology.
Domestic war industry to be developed
Development of an independent and indigenous war industry with high export capacity by reducing the foreign dependency of the Turkish Armed Forces in terms of weapons and equipment
and the necessary incentives will be provided for local entrepreneurs to invest in the production of weapons and military equipment.
In the Turkish Armed Forces, the employment of personnel capable of using advanced technology will be expanded.
R&D studies and production of defense industry technologies such as material technologies, electronic warfare, aviation, space and satellite technologies, network-centric warfare, unmanned aerial vehicles, guidance and control technologies will be supported.
A "national software" system will be developed and implemented to ensure information security in the defense industry.
Emphasis will be placed on aviation and space technologies to take advantage of the possibilities of space in the field of defense and security,
domestic satellite production will be ensured.
A "national software" system will be developed in the defense industry,
space capabilities will be utilized, and
domestic satellite production will be ensured.
Our defense industry will be transformed into a technology-producing structure rather than a technology-transferring one.
By utilizing the advantages of economies of scale, the war industry will be able to produce for national needs as well as for export.
The prestige of the Turkish Armed Forces will be protected
Our defense industry will produce technology and its
export capacity will be improved.
The prestige of the Turkish Army, which has a deep-rooted history of two thousand years and which resides in the conscience of the Turkish nation, will not be allowed to be eroded in domestic and foreign public opinion by making it the subject of random daily polemics.
The management structure of the Turkish Armed Forces will be activated
The combat structure of the Turkish Armed Forces will be restructured by strengthening its manpower, technology and organization,
will be modernized,
regional and global deterrence capability will be enhanced.
The new organizational model will also include a cyber warfare and electronic security command.
The dignity of the Turkish Army will be protected,
will not be allowed to erode.
In addition to specialization in the fields of training, organization and equipping in accordance with the mission definition, asymmetric threat-oriented changes will be made.
Professional emphasis on missions requiring specific expertise and missions addressing asymmetric threats,
For other posts, a system based on conscription will be adopted.
The management structure of the TAF will be activated, and
professionalism will be emphasized in missions requiring expertise and in missions against asymmetric threats.
Administrative and social facilities will be civilian-oriented.
Coordination will be ensured in the activities of internal security units
By redefining the authorities and responsibilities of institutions in the field of internal security, the service will be provided in harmony and they will be made to operate with modern methods.
Effective coordination will be ensured between units in institutional structuring, intelligence activities, information flow and the fight against crime.
The authorities and responsibilities of internal security institutions will be redefined and
services will be provided in harmony and with modern methods.
Border and coastal security will be ensured by resorting to cross-border measures when necessary.
Measures will be taken to restore the dignity of security forces, their financial and social rights will be harmonized with their duties and responsibilities, and
merit will be the basis for appointments and promotions of security personnel.
31- FOREIGN POLICY
The protection and development of our national interests will be the main objective in foreign policy
Border and coastal security will be ensured by resorting to cross-border measures when necessary.
To protect and enhance Turkey's national security and national interests;
to create a belt of peace, stability and security around us;
To establish relations based on mutual respect and mutual benefit with all countries, especially our neighbors;
The main objectives of our national foreign policy are to find fair and lasting solutions to existing problems within the framework of international law, while protecting Turkey's rights and interests.
The Nationalist Movement Party does not approach international relations with any prejudice and
evaluates developments and problems within the framework of a realistic and multi-faceted national strategy.
The indispensable elements for the Turkish nation are respect for our national culture, territorial integrity and unitary state structure.
The goal of our foreign policy will be to find fair and lasting solutions to problems by protecting Turkey's rights and interests.
Our Party adopts the independence, territorial integrity and non-interference in the internal affairs of other states as a fundamental principle in international relations
and expects this understanding from other states.
By not ignoring the fact that our country has a large and deep-rooted state in terms of its location, historical and socio-cultural structure, a foreign policy with a personality that takes into account historical and cultural dimensions will be determined, not just an understanding based on trade.
International relations will be approached within the framework of a realistic and multi-faceted national strategy.
An effective foreign policy that emphasizes international cooperation will be pursued
The essence of our foreign policy is to contribute to the establishment and maintenance of peace in our region and the world
and to enhance international cooperation.
Taking into account the geographical, strategic and geopolitical position of our country in order to be among the leading countries,
to pursue an effective foreign policy, including contributions to regional and international peace.
A personalized foreign policy that takes into account the location, historical and socio-cultural structure of our country will be pursued.
In the MHP government, foreign policy will be conducted with state seriousness, style and understanding.
Located at the center of Eurasian geopolitics, which is the strategic focus of the 21st century, Turkey will be a strong, prestigious, influential country in world politics and international relations, whose friendship is sought and trusted.
Friendly relations with all countries, especially our neighbors, will be established and furthered,
All kinds of regional cooperation initiatives of an international nature will be encouraged, and the country will be included in these initiatives as an effective member of the international community,
peace, stability, security and common prosperity will be contributed to at the regional and global level in order to resolve disputes peacefully.
In international relations, Turkey will become a country whose friendship is sought and trusted.
A foreign policy that will ensure that cooperation and geliştirilmesinive stability prevail in the Caucasus - Balkans - Middle East triangle will be pursued, and
it will not take part in any global project that destabilizes the region and brings blood and tears.
Friendly relations will be established with all countries, especially our neighbors,
establishment and maintenance of peace.
It will play a decisive role in solving regional and international problems that also affect Turkey.
Turkey will become a respected and trusted country in the Turkic World and the Islamic World, and will gain the position of an economic and cultural center.
Adding a strategic economic dimension to Turkey's geo-strategic position;
to be a global bridge and corridor in the fields of air, sea and land transportation and communication on the East-West and North-South axes;
In this framework, beyond being an energy bridge and terminal in the transportation of Central-Asian and Caspian basin energy resources to foreign markets, this status will be transformed into a strategic and indispensable advantage.
We will not take part in any global project that brings blood and tears to humanity.
It will be ensured that our citizens abroad enjoy all rights and freedoms and opportunities without discrimination in the countries where they live, and the
rights of our citizens will be protected.
Foreign policy will be based on deterrence
Turkey's status as an energy bridge and terminal will be transformed into a strategic and indispensable advantage.
Within the framework of international law and legitimacy, necessary deterrent policies will be implemented against countries that carry their historical enmity against Turkey into the present and target Turkey's national interests.
One of the most important elements of the Nationalist Movement's "Global Power Turkey" ideal is Turkey's pursuit of an independent, effective and result-oriented foreign policy.
The necessary deterrent policies will be implemented against countries that target Turkey's national interests.
Improving relations with the Turkic world
The Turkic world is the priority and privileged area of interest of our foreign policy.
One of the main objectives of our foreign policy is to develop and deepen relations with Cyprus, the Caucasus, the Central Asian Turkic Republics and the Balkan countries in all fields, particularly economic, social, political and cultural.
The opportunities offered by being at the center of Eurasian geopolitics will be utilized with a strategic vision, and
economic cooperation projects will be implemented to ensure and maintain peace and stability in the countries of the region.
The Turkic world will be the priority and privileged area of interest of our foreign policy.
Within the framework of international law and the principles guiding inter-state relations, close attention will be paid to cognates and kin communities outside Turkey
and necessary institutional cooperation structures will be established first.
Maintaining peace and stability in this region,
further strengthening our relations with the countries of the region in all areas and elevating them to the level of strategic partnership,
consolidating the sovereignty and independence of these countries,
the protection of their territorial integrity,
Increasing economic and social welfare levels,
Turkey's priority foreign policy objectives are to provide them with all possible support for the successful completion of their transition to democracy and market economy in all aspects.
Institutional cooperation will be established with cognates and kin communities, and
support will be provided to improve their welfare and democracy.
Developing our relations with the Turkic Republics on the basis of sovereign equality, common interest and mutual benefit in all fields
and giving strategic depth to relations is our main objective.
Strategic depth will be added to our relations with the Turkic Republics.
A new and comprehensive political-economic program will be prepared to develop and strengthen our relations with the Caucasus and Central-Asian Turkic world in all areas.
Concrete initiatives will be taken to transform this program into a joint action plan in close consultation with relevant countries.
Close cooperation will be ensured with the Independent Turkic Republics and Turkic communities in the energy sector as well as in other sectors, and
national energy agencies based on mutual interest relations and the "Turkic World Energy Council" will be established between our countries.
National energy agencies based on mutual interest and the Turkic World Energy Council will be established between our countries.
The Center for Scientific and Technological Cooperation of the Turkic World will be supported in all aspects
and its effective operation will be ensured.
Thus, our relations with the Turkic world will be developed in the field of science and technology, and
a Turkic World Science and Technology Database will be established.
The need for new institutional structuring, including the establishment of a ministry on the Turkic World for the coordination of Turkic World - Eurasian Cooperation policies and projects to be carried out in these areas, will be evaluated in all aspects.
Relations in the field of science will be improved,
Turkic World Science and Technology Database will be established.
Turkish Cypriot community will not be allowed to be destroyed under the name of political solution
Cyprus is Turkey's most important national cause.
Turkey has indispensable and non-negotiable treaty rights and obligations over Cyprus stemming from the founding treaties.
Under no circumstances will Turkey's effective and de facto guarantee be diluted or negatively affected in the context of a political solution.
Cyprus is Turkey's most important national cause and we will not stand by any approach that threatens the existence of our Cypriot compatriots.
Our Party believes that the only realistic, viable and viable solution in Cyprus must be based on a bi-zonal, bi-national and bi-state partnership.
Turkey will continue to support the honorable struggle of our compatriots living in the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus for many years with great patience and renunciation under all circumstances.
Turkey will not stand by any approach that threatens the existence of its Cypriot compatriots.
The only viable and viable solution in Cyprus is a bi-zonal, bi-national and bi-state partnership.
The EU will not be seen as a matter of fate for Turkey
It is necessary to clarify and redefine the nature, ground and framework of Turkey-EU relations.
Our Party does not see relations with the EU as a "question of identity and destiny" for Turkey.
It argues that Turkey is not obliged, condemned and needy to be dragged into the orbit of the European Union at any cost.
We do not see relations with the EU as a question of identity and destiny for Turkey
and it is the basis of our policy not to accept approaches other than full membership.
The respect that the countries of the European Union will show to our national sensitivities will constitute the basic criteria that will determine the future of our relations with these countries.
Continuation of association negotiations, provided that the European Union's approach to Turkey's national unity and integrity, terrorism and separatism, Cyprus, Greece and Armenia does not harm Turkey's interests
The continuation of negotiations with the EU depends on Turkey's interests not being harmed.
A multifaceted foreign policy will be pursued
Based on the fact that the common history and cultural values that Turkey shares with the countries in a vast geography extending from the Balkans to the Caucasus, from the Middle East to Central Asia, as well as the democratic values that form the basis of its long-standing relations with the western world are an important strategic accumulation of our country, a rational, decisive, consistent, realistic, dynamic and multifaceted foreign policy will be pursued by mobilizing Turkey's national power resources.
Turkey's national power resources will be fully mobilized and a rational, decisive, consistent, realistic, dynamic and multifaceted foreign policy will be pursued.
The economic, political, and security dimensions of our relations with the United States are in the mutual interest of both sides,
on the basis of equality and reciprocity.
Our relations with the US will be based on equality and reciprocity.
Relations with the countries of the Black Sea and Caspian basin, Balkan and Middle Eastern countries, especially Russia and Iran, aiming at peace, stability and regional cooperation
and multilateral policies will be pursued for the development of joint economic projects.
The development of our relations with the countries of Africa, the Far East and South East Asia
and the creation of an environment of dynamic economic cooperation are of particular importance.
Cooperation policies will be pursued with the countries of the Black Sea and Caspian basin, the Balkans and the Middle East, Africa, the Far East and South East Asia.
Our Iraq policy is based on preserving the territorial integrity of Iraq, protecting the rights of the Turkmen presence in Iraq and ensuring that Iraqi territory does not pose a security threat to Turkey.
In the face of actual terrorist threats and attacks against our country from Iraqi territory, Turkey's rights arising from international law will be used to eliminate the terrorist elements nesting there, and
all necessary measures will be taken for our national security.
Our Iraq policy will be based on preserving its territorial integrity, protecting the rights of Turkmens and ensuring that it does not pose a threat to Turkey.
32- PUBLIC DISCLOSURE
The public will be accurately informed on all issues and at all times
In this environment where all kinds of information pollution and information abuse can easily be carried out and information security is violated, we see it as a requirement of our principled, honest and ethical political understanding to enlighten the public and provide them with accurate information.
As a requirement of our principled, honest and ethical political approach, the public will be informed accurately on every issue and at all times.
Accurate information will be provided to the public without trying to manipulate and exploit the public opinion on every issue, leaving the understanding of the events to the nation itself.
In order to announce the views, thoughts and activities of our Party on various issues and to ensure that our nation is informed in a healthy manner by interpreting the events taking place in our country and in the world from a Turkey-centered perspective, importance and priority will be given to face-to-face communication in addition to the use of all accessible and fast communication tools.
Our Party will use effective and accessible means of communication to publicize its views, ideas and activities.
Concepts such as democracy, human rights and the rule of law will not be used to exploit our national and spiritual values and shield them for things that are not in the interest of the state and the nation,
Our Party will be the guiding light of our citizens by sharing accurate information for the peace and welfare of the nation and the survival of the state and the nation, anytime, anywhere and about anyone.
We will always guide our citizens with accurate information.
H - BUILDING THE FUTURE TOGETHER
The Nationalist Movement Party, which has been practicing politics with a culture of democratic responsibility within the framework of the principle of "first my country and my nation, then my party" in Turkish political life, will set its seal on Turkey's next 12 years with the same understanding, determination and determination with the support it receives from the nation.
Just as our Party's presence on the political scene has contributed to raising democratic standards and establishing a culture of consensus in the past, it will be a guarantee of the respectability of the political institution in the future.
The Nationalist Movement Party will put its stamp on the next 12 years of Turkey.
Our Party envisions to build the strong Turkey of the future together with those who carry the ideal of glorifying the nation and making the state eternal by perceiving and interpreting the era in Turkish with a vision that is aware of the dynamics of 21st century Turkey and the world.
The vision of Turkey as a superpower and leading country is the expression of a sacred understanding rooted in the historical and cultural realities of the Turkish nation and embracing the future.
Our party envisions building the strong Turkey of the future hand in hand, together.
The Nationalist Movement has adopted the establishment of a new civilization and a new world centered on Turkey as its political mission.
While this mission will make Turkey a leading country, it will also help all oppressed nations, especially those in the Eurasian geography, to live in freedom and dignity.
The condition to achieve this is for Turkey to get rid of its submissive mood and turn towards the values that represent the essence of the Turkish nation.
The Nationalist Movement has adopted the establishment of a new civilization and a new world centered on Turkey as its political mission.
Our understanding of nationalism is the democratization of the political system,
representation of social values at the political center
and a culture of brotherhood and solidarity.
This foresight is the result of an approach based on infinite trust in our people.
It has established an effective state order that is at peace with its national and historical values and capable of solving problems,
implemented a national development model that would mobilize the country's resources
In the 21st century, a strong Turkey that has a respected position in the community of states will have a say in world politics and economic life.
Turkey's foreign relations with the EU, the US and other countries that do not proceed on a democratic, civilized and reciprocal basis will be reshaped with a new perspective in accordance with the principle of equality and mutual responsibility,
Turkey will not be involved in or supportive of any project that is not in Turkey's best interest in one way or another.
No development in Turkey's immediate or distant neighborhood can threaten Turkey's security and peace of mind
, and Turkey's rights cannot be ignored.
Turkey will have a say in world politics and economic life in the 21st century with its national development model.
Following a fully independent foreign policy with the least problems and the most cooperation with the immediate neighborhood will be the basic approach of the Nationalist Movement Party.
Since the establishment of regional peace and security will be directly related to Turkey's national interests, no global or regional actor will be allowed to threaten peace and security despite Turkey.
No development in Turkey's neighborhood will be able to threaten Turkey's security and tranquility and ignore its rights.
With the regional cooperation project it will develop, Turkey will become the undisputed leader of the Eurasian geography including the Balkans, the Middle East and the Caspian basin.
Turkey-centered civilization project; raising democratic standards in this geography,
increasing prosperity,
guaranteeing human rights and freedoms,
for justice to prevail,
the establishment of peace and tranquility,
the elimination of conflicts and tensions,
the eradication of poverty,
It will ensure that people in this geography enjoy the virtues of living humanely.
Our view of the world and humanity will be shaped by Ahmet Yesevi's, Mevlana's, Yunus Emre's and Hacı Bektaşi Veli's human-centered synthesis of the material and immaterial realms of existence.
A human-centered understanding will shape our view of humanity.
Countries that can demonstrate the will to adopt the universal and humanitarian principles and values that Global Power Turkey has made dominant in state and human life, and that desire to be under the peace umbrella opened by Turkey, will gain strength from this unity
and at the same time add strength to this structure.
The dynamics of regional and global politics will be shaped around this new cooperation structure.
The Election Declaration, which is shaped with this understanding and includes our vision of "Rising Country Turkey Towards 2023" and our basic views, targeting the Nationalist Movement's sole power in the next 12 years, is presented to the vast common sense of our beloved nation.
Our vision of Turkey as a Country Rising Towards 2023 envisages 12 years of the Nationalist Movement's sole power and Turkey becoming a "Leader Country" in 2023.
In the parliamentary elections to be held in 2011, the Nationalist Movement Party will come to power on its own and take over the governance of the country, with the permission of Allah Almighty, by winning the favor of our beloved nation.
We have full faith in this.
