EVERYTHING FOR TURKEY
PRESENTATION
At the beginning of the 21st century, the world is undergoing a transformation unlike any in the past.
Rapidly developing information and technology adds new dimensions to human life.
The information flowing through the bridges built by the means of communication between people living in distant geographies is reshaping social institutions and political principles.
The conflict-based political understandings of the bipolar world are giving way to regional economic and political integration movements that envisage the free movement of goods and services, information, labor and capital.
As a natural consequence of these processes, totalitarian ideological approaches are being abandoned and fundamental rights and freedoms are being respected,
defending equality in every field against discrimination
and participatory political understandings that are empowered by the will of the people are gaining ground.
As economic, cultural and social relations develop among nations, the regulations that form the basis for these relations lead to the establishment of a common understanding of law for humanity.
In resolving national and international disputes, supranational courts and arbitral institutions are being established to issue final and binding decisions, and national decisions can be appealed to them.
Universal standards and norms are emerging to measure the quality of life of people in different countries, and the level of welfare, success and happiness of societies, as well as the effectiveness and prestige of states in the international arena, are determined according to these criteria.
While the scope of the state's activities is constantly shrinking, the effectiveness of the private sector and civil society organizations is increasing.
In this process of development, it is inconceivable that a national system that isolates itself from the world can survive for long.
With such an inward-looking system, the demands of society cannot be met, nor can it
be a respected member of the international community.
While the world is undergoing profound transformations, Turkey is wasting its time and energy dealing with domestic issues.
Despite more than fifty years of experience in multi-party politics, it has not been sufficiently democratized,
It is among the countries where fundamental rights and freedoms are not fully exercised.
Despite its young and dynamic population and rich natural resources, it has not been able to raise its welfare level and
reach the production capacity to compete in international markets.
Due to the wrong policies implemented, a healthy privatization could not be realized,
the role of the state in the economy could not be reduced,
There has been a lack of fairness in the distribution of wealth among segments of society.
In terms of corruption in public administration and political decay, our country is at the forefront.
The economic stabilization programs and bitter prescriptions implemented by the coalition government, which had been inflicting misery on the people, were not enough to bring inflation under control.
The heavy tax burden and heavy bureaucracy weakened the productive power of the economy,
reduced employment
and diverted resources from production to rent revenues.
The country has lost its attractiveness to domestic and foreign investors, and as a result Turkey has suffered a frightening loss of financial and human capital.
Unemployment has reached a high level even among our well-educated and qualified people, and
talented young minds are in a hurry to seek their future abroad.
This hopeless picture reached its peak with the unprecedented economic crisis in February 2001.
The economic and social cost of the crisis has been very high;
the domestic and external debt burden has grown enormously,
hundreds of thousands of businesses have closed down,
millions of people have lost their jobs,
The economy was left entirely in the hands of the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the World Bank.
More importantly, people's trust in the state and political institutions has been shaken and
their hopes for the future have been shattered.
Our Party believes that our country has the potential to be an active member of the new world with its young and dynamic population, unique geographical location, rich natural resources and vast cultural accumulation
and believes that it does not deserve all these events.
Our people are not responsible for the crisis.
Those who govern the country are responsible for the crisis.
The November 3 elections are an important opportunity for our nation to put an end to this bad trend.
There is a need for a political will to overcome the chronic high unemployment and inflation, the ever-increasing domestic and foreign debts, the instability and dangerous contraction in the economy, the high interest rates, and the debt management approach that directs savings to the financing of public deficits.
AK Party represents this will.
Our PARTY, under the leadership of honest, brave, young, dynamic, knowledgeable and clean cadres, has set out to re-establish a future full of hope and confidence with a comprehensive program to bring politics back together with the nation.
I. PRINCIPLED POLITICS
As a necessary condition of living in a state, politics is the universal way of meeting the general needs of society through discussion, debate and compromise.
Democratic politics, on the other hand, which actively engages society, is a virtuous endeavor that requires long-term thinking and putting the public interest above personal interests.
In our country, the public's trust in the political institution and politicians has been shaken by the short-sighted self-interested behavior of some politicians.
However, in a democratic society, politics as a legitimate means of ensuring the welfare and happiness of the people is a supreme value.
With the principled politics that our Party will implement, solutions will be produced to the deep-rooted problems of our country,
and the public's shaken trust in the political institution will be restored.
Seeking change within continuity, protecting differences within unity, relying on the dynamism of the society, aiming to dominate a political understanding that is open to developments and innovations in the world, AK PARTY is democratic,
conservative
is an innovative and modern party.
Our Party does not pursue a "negative politics" that prioritizes party interests over national interests, but a "positive politics" that prioritizes national interests over party interests.
Our PARTY, which has become the hope of our nation, will ensure social peace with its principled politics and management approach.
and increase the welfare of our people.
AK PARTY IS DEMOCRAT
Our party believes that the authority to govern and make politics is a right that belongs to the society.
The people delegate this power to the rulers in free and free elections.
Therefore, the most fundamental feature that distinguishes democracy from its opposite regimes is that power is determined by elections.
Elections should be held on the basis of universal, equal and secret ballot
, and different political views should be allowed to compete on equal terms.
As the practice of electing governing bodies in central and local institutions becomes more widespread, the space for freedoms expands,
public participation increases
and democracy is strengthened.
Democracy is a political competition to serve the nation and a regime of tolerance.
In this regime, no one has superior rights and privileges over others.
Our PARTY accepts different beliefs and cultures as a richness for our country,
people of different languages, religions, ancestry and social status to live freely under the equal protection of the law
and to participate in politics.
Democracy derives its legitimacy from the free will of the people.
and the law.
Laws regulating the political sphere are valid, even if incomplete, and bind everyone until they are changed.
Considering parties as indispensable elements of democratic life, the AK Party opposes the closure of political parties operating within the framework of the Constitution and laws.
As a requirement of the conservative-democratic political philosophy, our Party shares its projects and proposals with the society
, relies on the society
, is concerned with the problems of the society
, and believes that our problems can be solved more easily together.
The AK Party opposes any kind of extra-systemic interference in the functioning of the democratic regime.
OUR PARTY is against the narrowing of the political space,
restriction of fundamental rights and freedoms,
the substitution of bureaucracy for politics,
inequalities in public recruitment,
will change regulations and practices that limit the right to education.
AK PARTY IS CONSERVATIVE
AK PARTY, which sees the historical experience and accumulation of our nation as a solid ground for our future, is conservative.
Turkish society is a big family united by bitter-sweet memories, sharing a common destiny in this geography.
The values that constitute the identity of this family will be reproduced in the light of contemporary developments.
The civil culture and institutions that society has produced over its long history must remain outside the sphere of state intervention.
As the state withdraws from the economy, as required by contemporary developments,
control over the civil culture produced by society will necessarily diminish.
Society is a living organism that continues its existence by renewing itself in the cultural environment formed by deep-rooted institutions such as family, school, property, religion and morality.
Indigenous culture and institutions that are produced in their own natural process without external intervention and that integrate society do not contradict universal values.
OUR PARTY believes that state intervention in the institutions and values that society has created through its own experience will lead to chaos and unrest.
For this reason, the AK Party is the greatest guarantee against attempts by adventurous politicians to destroy civil-democratic gains with ideological projects disconnected from social realities.
Our Party is against turning its back on the modern world in the name of protecting Turkey's indigenous values.
On the other hand, while it is determined to open Turkey to the global world, it does not find it appropriate to destroy our local values.
In a period when principled approaches in politics have been replaced by daily interest relations, "morality" has come to the fore as the most important value.
The proliferation of corruption such as bribery, corruption, irregularities and partisanship, which destroy the life of the state and society, have caused politics to lose credibility as an institution
and shaken the public's trust in the political institution.
AK Party, which attaches importance to quality in politics, will place politics on a moral line.
In this way, it will also be possible to remove the suspicions that have been created in society against the political institution and democratic methods.
AK PARTY IS INNOVATIVE and CONTEMPORARY
AK Party, which joined the political life of Turkey at the beginning of the 21st century when information, capital, goods and services began to circulate freely around the world, is an innovative and modern party.
During the modernization period, Turkey's modernization was primarily understood as the abandonment of traditional culture and values.
However, modernization is the ability of society to renew itself with its own dynamics and to meet its changing needs.
This understanding was achieved, albeit to a limited extent, in the 1980s with approaches in the technological and economic fields.
Modernization, which will enable our country to take its rightful place among powerful countries, requires removing the obstacles in front of society through bold political and economic decisions.
Only with an innovative and modern understanding can we use the uncertainties full of risks that globalization, which is seen as inevitable under the leadership of rich countries, poses for developing countries in favor of our country.
Our Party sees our country's full membership to the European Union as a natural outcome of our modernization process.
Implementation of the economic and political provisions of the EU criteria is an important step towards our modernization as a state and society.
These criteria are inevitable, even when considered independently of EU membership.
Only by being in the era and aware of it can we deliver our messages to humanity and maintain our presence in the international arena by using the means of the era.
The ideological approaches of those who oppose our integration with Europe on the issues of national sovereignty, national security, national interest, national and local culture delay the implementation of the Copenhagen Criteria.
OUR PARTY believes that these concepts, which aim to maintain the bureaucratic statist understanding of governance, should be replaced by a system that respects the law of the individual,
democratic, based on public participation,
It is in favor of a civilian and pluralist approach.
Full freedom of opinion and expression,
removal of obstacles limiting freedom of enterprise,
making governance transparent,
bold steps towards strengthening local governments,
will pave the way for society to modernize through its own power.
 
II. fundamental rights and freedoms
Human beings have inherent, inalienable and inalienable fundamental rights and freedoms.
Fundamental rights and freedoms, which are the common value of humanity, are the prerequisite for living an honorable life under state rule.
Our Party, acting from the idea of "Let the people live so that the state can live", has put people at the center of all its policies.
The ultimate aim of democracy is to secure all civil and political freedoms, in particular freedom of thought, belief, education, association and enterprise, and to enable people to live free from fear and anxiety.
Fundamental rights and freedoms, which are too important to be considered in relation to domestic conditions, are subject to international regulations.
Fundamental rights and freedoms are among the most important areas where a country cannot regulate only by taking into account its own conditions.
After the Second World War, efforts to prevent humanity from ever again facing mass disasters necessitated the universal definition of human rights and the establishment of guarantees.
As a result of these efforts, documents such as the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the European Convention on Human Rights and the Paris Charter were put into force and an important step was taken towards the international guarantee of fundamental rights and freedoms.
Turkey has ratified and incorporated the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the European Convention on Human Rights into its domestic law.
The Copenhagen Criteria, a prerequisite for full membership of the European Union, also place a special emphasis on fundamental rights and freedoms.
In democratic regimes, political powers and bureaucratic structures cannot interfere with the exercise of fundamental rights and freedoms;
Our PARTY, which advocates the full realization of fundamental rights and freedoms guaranteed by international conventions
, will make the necessary changes in the Constitution and laws to raise fundamental rights and freedoms to the level specified in international conventions to which our country is a party, especially in the Copenhagen Criteria.
It will strive to ensure that fundamental rights and freedoms are not only constitutionally and legally guaranteed, but are actually implemented and strengthened as an established dimension of our political culture.
The state's legal and institutional arrangements and resources, the establishment of fundamental rights and freedoms
and will use it effectively for its development.
The lack of rights and freedoms lies at the heart of the controversial practices on religion, sect, gender and ethnic discrimination that cause vicious conflicts in our society.
These vicious conflicts will come to an end with the establishment of a "human rights-based" state understanding that will carry our democracy to a universal level.
It will be sensitive to the problems and demands of different segments of society on fundamental rights and freedoms, and will
not allow double standards, vicious bickering and political exploitation in this field.
It will seriously address human rights violations such as torture, disappearances, deaths in custody and unsolved murders, which are unacceptable in a democratic state of law.
It will seek opportunities for consensus and cooperation among other political parties and civil society organizations to overcome deficiencies in the area of fundamental rights and freedoms.
It will realize sustainable development so that fundamental rights and freedoms do not remain on paper, and
will ensure a more equitable distribution of resources to all segments of society.
Provisions limiting the right to life and property, freedom of thought, expression, belief, enterprise and association will be reformed by taking into account the universal understanding of law and freedom.
III. DEMOCRACY and CIVIL SOCIETY
Civil society is strengthening in Turkey as democracy and the market economy take hold.
In many areas, society outpaces the state, producing goods and services of higher quality than the public sector.
AK PARTY aims to strengthen civil society in order to realize a fully functioning democratic government based on human rights.
and requires effective public scrutiny within a "governance" approach.
A- STRENGTHENING CIVIL SOCIETY
AK Party sees democracy as a process that needs to be continuously developed with the broad participation of the people.
In this context, it will be ensured that the pluralist and participatory democratic political process is opened to civil society organizations and that the opinions and suggestions of the relevant segments of society are taken on the issues to be decided.
With the more active participation of civil society organizations in governance, the
development of representative democracy towards participatory democracy will be ensured.
In this way, citizens will have the opportunity to reflect their will on the political process not only from election to election, but also for current developments.
The democratization of governance is in the interest of the state as well as society.
As the state democratizes, its legitimacy to govern its people is strengthened and it gains international prestige.
Governments that draw their power from the people and civil society organizations have greater influence and bargaining power in their region and the world.
Our Party will stand at an equal distance to civil society organizations representing different views and segments
, and willsupport dialogue and cooperation among civil society organizations.
AK Party will ensure more active participation of civil society in public administration by removing legal and administrative factors that prevent participation in governance.
Mechanisms will be developed to facilitate the business world, trade unions, professional chambers, farmers' organizations and voluntary organizations to solve their problems together with public officials in their service areas.
Civil society, which is not yet sufficiently organized in our country, cannot be very effective in the execution of public services.
In order to overcome this problem, the organization of all segments will be supported in the general development and education process
and the public bureaucracy will be restructured to meet the needs in dialogue with the society.
The AK Party will seek the broadest possible social consensus, even if its numerical superiority in parliament is sufficient, in making fundamental legal arrangements and constitutional amendments.
As a requirement of pluralist democracy and competitive market understanding, AK Party advocates the development of a pluralist and competitive structure in the media, which performs the task of obtaining accurate information and control in modern societies.
It favors a dialog based on mutual respect between politics and the media, which constitute different sides of a public service.
B- DEMOCRACY and DEVELOPMENT
Sustainable development,
environmental awareness
and democratic governance.
Simply increasing per capita income or improving physical conditions is not enough for quality of life.
People need freedom to realize themselves as much as they need bread.
OUR PARTY, development,
not as social engineering reflecting the unilateral will of the state, but as a democratic quest that respects the pluralistic structure of society.
Democratization
and development are not alternatives to each other, but rather processes that should go hand in hand and support each other.
Top-down and unidirectional approaches in public administration will be abandoned, and
models based on state-society dialogue and cooperation in services with social dimensions such as education, health and environment will be developed with a governance approach.
State, market and society are complementary, not alternatives.
The synergy created by these will ensure sustainable and rapid development.
 
IV. LAW AND JUSTICE REFORM
A- OUR UNDERSTANDING OF LAW and JUSTICE
Respect for universal principles of law in democratic countries,
keeping remedies open,
equality before the law,
protection of individual rights and freedoms,
ensuring the adherence of the administration to the law are fundamental values.
With the realization of these values, the understanding of the rule of law, which is a legitimizing power of authority, is established.
Our PARTY sees the law as a tool to ensure justice, not to intimidate and punish.
Due to the prohibitive provisions in our legislation, our country looks more like a state of law than a state of law.
By basing its laws on the law, its jurisprudence on the principles of universal justice and human rights, and by changing the prohibitive legal system that restricts the exercise of fundamental rights and freedoms, Turkey will truly become a state of law and gain a respected place in the international community.
Our understanding of law and justice is to ensure that the state treats society and individuals with justice without discrimination based on language, race, color, gender, political opinion, philosophical belief, religion and sectarian affiliation.
Our goal is to reduce crime in our society,
a society of peace where there is no fear.
"Protective Law" practices will be initiated to prevent disputes before they arise.
Counseling services on legal issues will be developed and offered to the public as a social service,
ensuring that our people have a good understanding of their rights and the rules of law regarding basic and daily problems.
Our Party will be the guarantor of the understanding of governance based on the rule of law.
As expressed in the maxim "Justice is the foundation of property", justice must first be established in order to ensure peace, tranquility and prosperity in society.
At the heart of the crises in our country lies the lack of a rule of law and a justice system in line with universal norms.
As the name of our party suggests, the establishment of justice comes before development.
Failing to implement a democratic rule of law
Countries that cannot establish trust in justice and justice cannot develop economically.
Realizing justice reform in accordance with the rule of law is among the priorities of our Party.
Legal reforms should start with a new constitution.
Our Party is in favor of the new constitution being a social contract between the state-society-individual.
This constitution will implement the principles of the rule of law,
protect individuals against the state and organized forces, and ensure
that fundamental rights and freedoms are guaranteed in accordance with the principles and standards of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the European Convention on Human Rights.
The new constitution to be drafted will be short, concise and clear; the
relations between the legislative, executive and judicial powers will be clearly and comprehensibly defined; the
referendum route will be made widespread to ensure the transition from representative democracy to participatory democracy; and
"no act or action of the administration will be excluded from judicial review".
B- INDEPENDENT and impartial judiciary
The most important guarantee of individual rights and freedoms is that those who exercise judicial power exercise their duties impartially in accordance with the law.
In our country, the presidents of the high judicial bodies have repeatedly stated that there are various forms of interference in the judiciary and that judges are prevented from making impartial decisions.
In our country, the main reasons for the disruption of justice services are insufficient budgetary allocations for these services, slow proceedings, extensive legislation, lack of renewal of judicial legislation in line with contemporary developments, lack of technical infrastructure and insufficient personnel.
In order to realize a judicial reform that will ensure independent and impartial decision-making by the persons and institutions exercising judicial power, the AK Party will
rearrange the provisions in the Constitution and laws that are incompatible with the independence of the judiciary and the guarantee of judgeship, and
measures will be taken to prevent the impartiality of judges and the politicization of the law.
The promotion system of judges and prosecutors will be amended in a way that will not undermine the guarantee of judgeship, and
their records will be organized according to objective criteria.
Resources will be allocated from the budget to compensate the victims of judicial errors.
Regulations to prevent the activities of the press and influential persons and organs in the public opinion to influence the judiciary and to mislead the judiciary shall be duly implemented.
State Security Courts will be abolished and their duties and powers will be transferred to criminal courts specialized in organized crime and terrorism.
The election of the members of the Constitutional Court will be reorganized, and the Parliament will be authorized to elect members by establishing a balance between the legislature, the executive and the judiciary.
C- FULL and TIMELY JUSTICE
Article 141 of the Constitution stipulates that lawsuits shall be concluded in the shortest possible time and with the least possible expense.
Article 6 of the European Convention on Human Rights guarantees the right of everyone to a fair trial by a lawful, independent and impartial tribunal within a reasonable time as a fundamental human right.
Today, the justice system in our country is very slow and
this situation weakens the sense of trust in justice.
Instead of seeking their rights in the courts, people sometimes attempt to "vindicate their rights",
engage illegal organizations
, or give up in despair and give in to injustice.
Inadequacy in procedural laws, lack of qualified judicial and auxiliary personnel, inadequacies in buildings and physical space, inability to utilize modern means of communication and communication, rapid population growth in judicial districts due to internal migration are the main factors delaying the delivery of justice.
According to our Party, justice delayed is injustice.
In order to eliminate these drawbacks in the judicial system; the
share allocated from the general budget to justice services will be increased to a rate that will ensure that these services are provided in a complete and timely manner.
Necessary administrative and legal arrangements will be made for the settlement of citizens' disputes with state institutions without resorting to judicial remedies, and public officials will be prevented from referring the works they should do to the judiciary by avoiding responsibility.
Personnel shortages will be addressed by facilitating the transition of law faculty members, people with academic careers in law and especially experienced lawyers to the judiciary.
The status of the lawyer representing the defense in criminal proceedings shall be equalized with that of the prosecutor representing the prosecution.
Regulations that allow the parties to the case to unnecessarily prolong the case will be abolished, and behaviors that lead to the prolongation of the case will not be allowed.
The number of lawsuits will be reduced by removing the non-contentious judicial proceedings that are currently seen as lawsuits from being lawsuits.
Simplicity and expeditiousness will also be ensured in non-contentious judicial proceedings that are seen in the pattern of litigation.
The time limits for filing a lawsuit, complaint, objection, appeal, rectification of judgment, statute of limitations and forfeiture will be simplified.
The institution of "legal aid", which is envisaged for those who cannot benefit from the freedom to seek rights due to financial impossibilities, will be made operational.
According to the latest developments in the field of Criminal Law, social behaviors that are not considered crimes will be decriminalized.
Misdemeanors will be removed from the scope of judicial crimes and the possibility of "prepayment" will be expanded.
An administrative procedure law will be enacted to eliminate the ambiguities of authority and responsibility in administrative procedures, to clarify the procedures, and to facilitate supervision.
By establishing courts of appeal, the workload of the Court of Cassation will be lightened
and its function as a court of jurisprudence will be emphasized.
Meeting the system's needs for qualified personnel, space and equipment is essential for the timely and complete administration of justice.
For this purpose;
Courthouses will be equipped with modern tools and equipment in accordance with the developments of the age and the requirements of the service.
It will be ensured that the courts benefit from electronic archive facilities and timely access to the necessary information and documents and precedent decisions will be made possible, and
an information network will be established between the judicial bodies and an order will be established to carry the judicial system to the information society.
Execution legislation will be brought in line with modern norms and the
problems of prisons and detention houses will be solved by providing a modern organization, sufficient number of personnel and physical facilities.
In this framework;
In execution services, places where detainees and convicts stay will be separated, and inadequacies in personnel and physical infrastructure of penal execution institutions will be eliminated.
In the new execution law to be prepared, the minimum rights of detainees and convicts will be determined
and alternative penal execution methods will be developed.
A more organized system will be adopted for keeping criminal records, and
negligence in expunging criminal records will be prevented from causing disenfranchisement.
People will be prevented from being deprived of their public rights through administrative decisions, and judicial decision will be made mandatory for deprivation of public rights.
Parliament's amnesty power will be limited to crimes against the state,
established that seeks the consent of victims and protects their rights for crimes against persons and property.
 
V. MANAGEMENT RESTRUCTURING
A- THE CHANGING ROLE OF THE STATE
Globalization and developments towards the information society have rendered traditional approaches to state and governance largely obsolete.
The traditional control and intervention of the state over society is diminishing and
multi-actor policies are being formulated at local and supranational levels.
In this new process, AK Party favors policy-making, resource creation, standard setting and supervision rather than direct intervention and production by the state.
In the 21st century democratic state, accountability of administrators, participation, predictability and transparency stand out as fundamental elements.
AK Party to harmonize the functions of the state with these developments:
It explicitly recognizes the accountability of the government and public administrators.
It supports participation as an effective mechanism to foster dialogue and cooperation between the public sector and society.
By adopting a total quality approach at every stage of management and decision-making, uncertainties will be reduced and a "predictable" management will be ensured.
The use and transfer of resources in the public sector will be made publicly known and will establish a transparent state understanding that does not allow corruption.
The role of the State in these developments;
To establish justice, To
ensure internal and external security, To ensure
macro-economic balances and stability, To
make macro-level planning with flexible and participatory features, To take
measures to eliminate social and regional imbalances, To
carry out basic services related to education and health, To carry
out supervision according to the standards it sets.
B- TRANSPARENT GOVERNANCE IN THE STATE
Turkey's current governance structure has lagged behind global conditions and society's will to develop.
Our inefficient public administration system, which does not function according to democratic rules, creates a crisis of confidence between the state and the people.
A democratic understanding of the state
and a competitive market are complementary.
The state meets the basic needs of societies,
market
and civil society cooperation has become inevitable.
Our current state structure, which has difficulty in meeting the basic needs of our people, is
centralized and rigidly hierarchical,
closed to social control and participation,
stationary, formalistic and inefficient,
growing rapidly and becoming unwieldy,
open to corruption and corrupting politics.
Our public administration system needs to be transformed in line with the modern management approach.
AK Party is determined to ensure this transformation.
1. In order to overcome centralist and rigid hierarchical structures;
decentralization of public services will be the basic principle by reconciling national priorities and local differences, and
services that are not obligatory to be carried out by the state will be transferred to local governments together with their resources.
Emphasis will be placed on democratization at the local level, and the
control of the central administration over local bodies formed through elections will be limited to the control of compliance with the law.
Mayors deemed inconvenient to remain in office will be removed from office upon the request of the highest local administrative authority, but only by a court decision.
A "General Institutional Review of the State" will be carried out to redefine the number and scale of ministries and the duties of related and affiliated organizations and other public institutions as a whole.
Unnecessary institutions in the central administration will be eliminated, structures with similar functions will be merged, and procedures will be simplified by reducing management levels within institutions.
2. In order to increase social control and participation, the
right to information will be extended to all segments of the society and the "Law on Citizen's Right to Information" will be enacted.
By utilizing new information and communication technologies, services and operations of public institutions will be announced to the public and transparency in administration will be ensured.
The referendum process will be kept open to make decisions on important issues concerning the future of the country in line with the preferences of the society.
In order to increase efficiency and transparency in the public sector, service units will be required to submit performance reports to the parliament and the public.
3. In order to reduce red tape, formalism and inefficiency,
legislation will be reduced and administrative procedures will be simplified in areas that provide direct services to citizens.
Information and communication technologies will be used to the maximum extent in public institutions and e-Government application will be made widespread.
Public administration will be based on the "principle of trust in the declaration" and citizens' declarations will be accepted as true until proven otherwise.
Penalties for those who abuse this principle will be increased.
Bureaucratic obstacles that cause delays and deterrence of investors will be removed, and
duplicate requests for documents and information will be prevented by providing the necessary information and documents from a single unit.
4. In order to eliminate organizational growth and cumbersomeness;
public personnel will be trained and a culture of "flexible specialization" will be established, hiring additional personnel for temporary and insignificant jobs will be prevented.
By reorganizing the distribution of personnel within the organization, between organizations and between regions, the personnel shortage at the points where direct service is provided to citizens will be eliminated.
Performance management will be improved through contracts between managers and employees in the public sector, and a performance-based wage system will be introduced in the long term.
Objective criteria will be introduced in order to prevent abuse in making settlements provinces and districts, establishing municipal organizations and metropolitan municipalities.
5. In order to prevent nepotism and corruption;
objective criteria will be introduced in personnel recruitment and promotions will be based on merit and equal opportunity.
Stability and continuity in governance will be ensured by minimizing the impact of changes in political power on the bureaucratic structure, except for the top cadres.
Structures similar to the "Economic and Social Council", where the private sector and civil society organizations will come together with public administrators and political authorities at national, regional and local levels, will be expanded and operated effectively.
The ombudsman method will be used effectively in the supervision of public administration and protection of human rights by establishing a legal infrastructure and ombudsman practice will be introduced at the local level.
While implementing reform and change projects, AK Party will act with a participatory approach that includes the relevant parties in the process.
C- E-TRANSFORMATION TURKEY PROJECT
With its changing and renewed governance structure, AK Party will ensure that a transparent, holistic, egalitarian state structure with simple business processes will serve our people by using new information and communication technologies and good governance principles in order to provide quality and fast public services to its citizens.
The e-transformation Turkey project, which will meet the needs of our citizens within the framework of the global network and ensure their participation in public decision-making processes, will be realized.
With this project;
First of all, telecommunication and information technologies policies will be determined within the framework of the new acquis of the EU;
direct participation of citizens in decision-making processes in the public sphere will be ensured through information and communication technologies;
public administration will be made transparent and accountable in the light of e-government principles; the
use of information and communication technologies will be made widespread on the basis of equity criteria;
local knowledge and skills will be transferred to the global level; a
highly qualified manpower that can have a say in the global plan will be created; the
information gap between income groups and statuses in different geographies will be closed.
Participation, simplicity, transparency, equality and holism will be our main principles in the transformation project.
To this end, an e-Transformation Task Force will be established, a national vision will be defined, a strategic action plan will be prepared, legal arrangements will be finalized and all decision-making and business processes of the public sector will be redesigned.
The transformation project will be coordinated by a group of high-level experts with a broad vision and a people-centered civilian approach.
Activities carried out by different organizations such as e-Government, e-Turkey, Public-Net will be unified under the name of "e-transformation Turkey" project.
D- CENTRAL GOVERNMENT REFORM
In the process of transition to the information society, advances in technology and the changing needs of society lead to a decentralization of services.
The central government has been restructured into a dynamic structure with as few ministries and as few personnel as possible, while local governments have been strengthened.
According to the AK Party, our country cannot remain outside this process.
Central administration reform will start from the Prime Ministry and State Ministries.
Organizations under the Prime Ministry will be transferred to the relevant executive ministries and the Prime Ministry will cease to be a service ministry.
In line with the principles of the parliamentary system, the Prime Ministry will be facilitated to fulfill its coordination function.
When the task of forming a government is entrusted to our Party, a Ministry of Economy will be established in addition to the existing Service Ministries.
The number of State Ministers assisting the Prime Minister in political and administrative affairs will be reduced so that the Council of Ministers will be less than 25 Ministers.
The number, size, related and affiliated institutions of the existing Service Ministries will be handled as a whole, and the duties and authorities of the ministries will be redefined as the most important implementation of the central administration reform.
As in Western democracies, the Rules of Procedure of the Council of Ministers will be enacted, and objective rules will be established for the meeting and working procedures of the Council of Ministers.
Except for a small number of confidential decisions, all government decisions will be made public by publishing them in the Official Gazette, and the Official Gazette will be made available free of charge on the internet.
Provided that the authority to formulate macro policies remains with the government, independent and autonomous institutions and boards will maintain their regulatory and supervisory functions;
autonomous institutions will provide regular information to the public, the government and the Turkish Grand National Assembly.
E- STRENGTHENING LOCAL GOVERNMENTS
Democracy is not only a regime of voting and election, but also a regime of participation and cooperation.
Participation and cooperation in public services starts with local governments.
In line with the principles of participatory and pluralist democracy, it has become necessary to transfer new public administration approaches to the field of local administrations.
Local services are now carried out by local administrations in accordance with the principle of decentralization, while national level services are carried out by central administrations.
AK Party will establish a balance of services and resources between the central administration and local administrations and ensure full coordination between them in accordance with the "principle of integrity of the administration".
A new arrangement will be made to determine the division of duties, authorities and resources between the central administration and local administrations according to the principles of effectiveness, efficiency and modern administration.
As stated in the European Charter of Local Self-Government, "local authorities shall have discretion to act in all matters falling within the limits of their competence established by law".
The duties and powers of the central administration will be listed one by one and all other duties will be left to local governments.
Human resources and technical infrastructure of medium and small scale municipalities will be strengthened.
Municipal administrators will be trained on modern municipalism, urbanization and zoning.
Local administrations will be provided with sufficient financial power to meet the expenditures necessary for the fulfillment of their duties.
Participation of civil society organizations in the decision-making process of local governments will be ensured.
In line with the European Charter of Local Self-Government, the right to local self-government will be included in our constitutional system.
Establishment of a Metropolitan Municipality will be based on objective criteria.
The division of duties and powers between metropolitan and district municipalities will be reorganized in a way that will not lead to disruption in services.
Provincial administrations that provide services at the local level also need to be restructured.
The current provincial administration, whose duties and authorities overlap with the provincial organizations of the ministries and cause problems in the execution of services, should be reorganized according to the principle of decentralization of services.
In this context, provincial administration will be restructured and
bureaucracy will be reduced by gradually transferring the duties and authorities of the Ministries in the provinces to Governorships and Special Provincial Administrations.
Taking into account local preferences, health, education, culture, social assistance, tourism, environment, village affairs, agriculture, animal husbandry, zoning and transportation services will be provided at the provincial level.
New service regions covering several provinces at the sub-regional level will be established in order to maximize the utilization of economies of scale.
Policies to reduce development disparities between regions will be implemented by the central government, while efforts to eliminate development disparities between provinces will be carried out by service regions.
Provincial directorates under the Ministries will be gradually connected to the Governorates.
Provincial directorates will make plans, programs and implementations within the framework of the policies established by the ministries and the needs of the province.
By linking the management of public personnel in provinces and districts to the Governorate, efficient use of public personnel and easy transfer of personnel between institutions will be ensured.
Local governments will be free to move personnel, provided that they do not exceed 35 percent of their budgets.
Provincial General Assemblies will be transformed into truly local assemblies.
Special Provincial Administrations will be responsible for all common services that concern the whole province and that are outside the municipalities' adjacent areas.
VI. ECONOMIC POLICIES
A- BASIC APPROACHES
During the Republican period, various economic development models such as state-led industrialization, planned development, liberal and open growth were implemented.
Experience has shown that the free market system works,
democracy,
rule of law
and transparency
It shows that more healthy development and growth is achieved in economies.
AK Party believes that the ultimate goal of economic activities is to improve the quality of life of people.
The entrepreneurial power of our nation is the most important source of economic development.
The main role of the state in the economy is to ensure conditions of free competition in the markets
and to remove obstacles to the power of enterprise.
Increasing competition and new norms emerging with globalization pose new opportunities as well as new threats for developing countries.
In this process, a clearly defined legal order in line with universal standards, a
reliable and functioning justice mechanism, and guaranteed
property rights will provide our country with significant advantages.
AK Party's most important goal is to rebuild trust in the state.
Through regulation and supervision, the state will eliminate the defects in the functioning of the free market system, increase efficiency and prevent abuse of the system.
In the last 20 years, Turkey has taken important steps towards integration with the international system in trade and capital movements.
Trade integration has welfare-enhancing effects.
However, integration in the field of capital movements leads to significant problems as economic and financial stability is not ensured.
Our Party's basic approach to capital movements will not be to prohibit and reverse the process, but to minimize the negative effects within the market mechanism.
With globalization, factors that support development such as access to information and technology, the use of foreign capital, and export opportunities come to the fore.
On the other hand, problems such as the deterioration of income distribution within and between countries and the ineffectiveness of some traditional development instruments have emerged.
Our Party will make a realistic analysis of this new environment and implement an effective economic management that will ensure the necessary adaptation.
It will take measures to increase the international competitiveness of our country.
Also by taking part in strong regional integrations such as the EU,
will use the opportunities provided by globalization to improve the welfare of our people.
Full membership of the European Union is our primary goal in terms of economic and democratic development.
On the other hand, the economic and democratic standards, legal and institutional arrangements offered by the EU will be supported without being conditional on full membership.
Other regional integrations arising from our historical, geographical and economic ties and economic cooperation efforts with our neighboring countries will also be pursued in an understanding that will be complementary to the EU.
B- INADEQUACIES OF THE CURRENT PROGRAM
The 57th Government's program, known as the "Anti-Inflation Program", which was implemented at the end of 1999, suffered a significant blow in November 2000 and collapsed in February 2001, leading to the biggest crisis in the history of the Republic.
The "Transition to a Strong Economy Program", which was launched in May 2001, showed signs of collapse towards the end of 2001 and was renewed in January 2002 with substantial support from the International Monetary Fund (IMF).
The current economic program has macroeconomic objectives of low inflation, a reduction in the public debt burden and a transition to a sustainable growth environment.
However, the policies, priorities and political support for the program failed to achieve these objectives.
According to the AK Party, the current program's approach to the problems of the real sector and its social policies are inadequate.
Some of the structural reforms in the program have been implemented without adequate consideration of the country's conditions and without discussing the problems in detail.
Failure to reduce real interest rates, stalled privatization, lack of progress in foreign direct investment, failure to achieve the desired results in the rehabilitation of the financial sector, faulty agricultural policies, shallowness and inadequacy of social policies are the issues where the economic program failed.
C- AIMS and STRATEGIES OF OUR PROGRAM
Because the necessary reforms could not be implemented due to the wrong programs and management mistakes, our country has fallen into serious problems such as high inflation, a huge public debt stock, low growth and unbalanced income distribution, and high unemployment.
In terms of basic economic indicators such as inflation, growth and income distribution, Turkey has lagged behind many developing countries.
The main objective of the economic program to be implemented by our Party is
to rapidly reverse this negative picture, reduce inflation and public debt stock, and achieve high and lasting growth performance.
Reducing inflation and the public debt stock and achieving lasting and high growth rates are only possible with an economic program that is comprehensive, consistent and supported by the broad participation of our society.
In this framework, the public sector will maintain fiscal and monetary stability and support the program with consistent policies and structural reforms at the micro scale.
As the public debt stock declines, the public sector will cease to absorb funds from the financial sector and
the financial sector will be able to channel these resources to private sector institutions.
It is clear that Turkey cannot sustain the growth model based on public deficits and supported only by hot money inflows.
The main sources of growth will be productivity growth, mobilization of idle production factors, production of internationally competitive goods and services, and foreign direct capital inflows.
The main priority of the fiscal policy to be implemented by our Party is to reduce the debt stock to a sustainable level by ensuring fiscal discipline and
to provide a primary surplus that will maintain macroeconomic stability.
While the size of the primary surplus will be set at a level that will allow the debt stock to develop in a sustainable structure,
its composition will be shaped by taking into account economic efficiency, growth and social policies.
In this context, increasing productive expenditures by cutting unproductive expenditures, provided that the primary surplus target remains within the target.
or tax cuts to stimulate economic activity will be carefully evaluated.
Monetary policy that reduces inflation in the short run,
In the medium term, the strategy prioritizing price stability will be maintained.
The independence of the Central Bank will be preserved.
Following the achievement of a permanent decline in inflation and the establishment of confidence in monetary policy, the
Central Bank, in its monetary policy implementation, will also take into account the achievement of growth and employment, provided that this does not conflict with price stability.
In order to ensure predictability in exchange rates, a foreign exchange futures market will be developed.
In parallel with political and economic stability, exchange rates will also stabilize.
The floating exchange rate policy will be maintained.
However, the Central Bank will intervene more sensitively in speculative fluctuations in foreign exchange markets that are not linked to macroeconomic fundamentals.
In order to prevent the exploitation of the stability in the exchange rate in the form of profiting from short positions, the open positions of banks will be strictly controlled by the Banking Regulation and Supervision Agency and the Central Bank.
Structural reforms will make macroeconomic stability permanent,
increase the resilience of the economy against shocks,
boost productivity and competitiveness in the economy
, and ensure full utilization of our production potential.
These reforms were implemented with the participation of all segments of society.
and will be realized rapidly, taking into account the conditions of the country.
Our party's structural reform program; public sector restructuring,
Accelerating privatization,
Improving the environment for domestic and foreign investment,
Reforming the financial sector and social security system,
It will cover areas such as increasing productivity in agriculture.
In addition to ensuring monetary and fiscal discipline, the implementation of structural reforms will create an environment of confidence and reduce uncertainties in Turkey.
This will lead to a permanent fall in inflation and real interest rates.
In addition to monetary and fiscal policies aimed at ensuring macroeconomic stability, the
necessary support will be provided to revitalize the real sector, and the
desired level of growth will be achieved by increasing production, investment, exports and employment.
As a requirement of the social responsibilities it has assumed, the AK Party will pay close attention to the segments adversely affected by the crisis and
put social assistance projects into practice.
According to official data, 15 percent of our population is below the hunger line.
Our Party will not remain indifferent to this painful picture, which is contrary to human rights and the Constitution.
It will prioritize the solution of this urgent problem within the framework of social policies.
The AK Party will stand behind its economic programs with a strong political will.
Thus, the much-needed confidence and predictability in the economy will be restored in a very short time.
D- FISCAL POLICIES
As a result of interest payments due to the high public debt stock, budgets have become uneconomic,
implement fiscal and social policies
and development, and has become a means of paying interest.
In 2001, the share of budget expenditures in GNP rose to 45 percent, while the ratio of interest payments alone to GNP reached 23 percent.
On the other hand, the share of investment expenditures in GNP was 2.1 percent.
The ratio of interest payments to tax revenues reached 103 percent.
This shows that all of the taxes collected go to interest payments.
With the macroeconomic policies to be implemented by our Party, the vicious debt-interest cycle will be broken
, the maturity structure of the debt stock will be improved
, thedebt stock will be reduced to a sustainable level
, the pressure of interest payments on the budget will be reduced
and thus budgets will be turned back into fiscal policy instruments.
Investments that will accelerate our development by reducing the interest burden on the budget to reasonable levels,
improvements in the salaries and wages of public employees,
Priority will be given to increasing social expenditures such as education and health.
1. Public Deficits
The excess of expenditures over revenues has continuously increased public deficits.
In the last 10 years, the ratio of public deficits to GDP has increased from 7 percent to 16 percent.
Considering that the ratio of public deficits to GDP of no more than 3 percent is one of the Maastricht criteria, the size of the public deficit in Turkey is better understood.
The main causes of public deficits; High real increases in current expenditures,
Short-term domestic borrowing with high real interest rates,
Inefficient and cumbersome public administration,
Excess employment in the public sector,
Extravagance in public expenditures,
Corruption
and high cost of public services,
SOEs operating at high cost and inefficiently,
Social security system with impaired actuarial balances,
Irrational incentive, subsidy and support policies,
Duty losses of public banks.
Meeting public deficits through short-term domestic borrowing has also led to a serious domestic debt service burden, leading to higher interest rates
and persistent public deficits.
Public deficits, spending cuts
and productivity will be reduced through increased efficiency,
It will not be easy to raise tax rates or introduce new taxes.
Our Party will decisively and rapidly implement the following measures to reduce public deficits, which are the cause of economic instability:
Structural reforms will be carried out rapidly,
transparency in implementations will be ensured,
corruption and bribery will be combated,
efficiency in expenditures will be ensured and productivity will be increased,
investment stock will be reduced by allocating resources to priority projects,
privatization will be accelerated by removing legal and administrative obstacles,
measures will be taken to close the deficits of social security institutions,
rational criteria will be introduced to incentives, subsidies and support policies,
public banks will be operated on commercial principles until they are privatized.
2. Revenue Policy
In addition to the rapid increase in public financing needs since the 1990s, the negative impact of economic problems on public financing has resulted in
the introduction of new taxes
and the increase in existing tax rates.
Thus, the tax burden increased
and reached 33.1 percent of GNP in 2001.
Since the number of taxpayers has not increased due to the economic crisis, the tax burden of registered taxpayers has become even heavier.
This has made the tax injustice in our country even more evident.
In principle, our Party will lower tax rates
and reduce the number of taxes.
Without reducing total tax revenue in the medium term,
spreading taxation across the tax base,
Removing the reasons that push individuals and institutions to informality
and efficiency in tax administration, tax rates will be gradually reduced.
Taking into account that the main purpose of tax is to collect revenue, exceptions and exemptions that complicate the tax system will be simplified.
Tax-related provisions in other laws will be incorporated into tax laws, the
tax system will be simplified, and
taxes that are not applicable in today's conditions will be abolished.
In tax regulations, in addition to public finance priorities, the
impact of tax on economic units,
economic and social returns,
impact on production and employment
and tax-like obligations will be taken into account.
Within the framework of the "tax peace project", a white page will be opened in taxation in order to control informality.
Within the scope of this project, 130,000 files related to tax disputes will be liquidated through tax and interest deductions, and the
infrastructure for the transition of the system to the formal economy will be prepared through tax base increase, ease of collection, stock amnesty and inventory amnesty.
No retrospective or backward-looking tax laws will be enacted.
Fiscal milestone will be abolished.
Integration between income and corporate taxation will be ensured in the taxation of corporate income.
Thus, while reducing the tax burden on corporate earnings,
other hand, it will be possible to determine real person earnings more clearly.
These regulations are harmonized with the EU
and taxation of foreign capital.
The regulations on the taxation of movable capital income are simple,
permanent,
ease of application,
It will be ensured that they have qualities that do not harm tax justice.
Most transaction-based taxes, such as stamp duty and fees, will be abolished, while
the rates of the remaining taxes will be reduced and capped.
This will facilitate the understanding of the economic dimension of events and
increase income, corporate and value added tax revenues.
The activities undertaken by the revenue administration cannot be performed efficiently under the general directorate.
Duties and authorities of units in the revenue administration will be clearly defined and
financial management will be made flexible and functional.
In order to facilitate taxpayers and the tax administration, taxpayers will be able to make their declarations, accruals and payments over the internet through the computer system, and
taxpayers will be monitored more easily with the single social security number to be introduced.
3. Public Expenditures
The Turkish expenditure system is not in a position to provide accurate information to decision makers and the public.
Since the program-budget relationship is not established, the habit of spending outside the budget is widespread
and therefore the budget is not well monitored.
The public expenditure reform that our Party will implement will be oriented towards the following four objectives:
Ensuring macroeconomic stability,
Allocation of resources according to strategic service priorities,
Execution of public services according to the principles of frugality, efficiency and effectiveness, Ensuring
transparency by accounting for the financial powers used.
With our new financial management approach, by providing more information to the public and the public
corruption and wastefulness will be prevented.
This new approach will enable "doing more with less".
Both restructuring and spending reform
both the quality dimension will be taken into account.
To achieve these goals, a serious program of change will be implemented, led by a determined political will.
Our PARTY's strategies to achieve these goals are as follows:
Fiscal discipline and transparency in public expenditures will be ensured.
The budget scope will be reviewed to ensure cash and budget unity.
A link will be established between the service production performance of spending public institutions and the budget allocated to these institutions, and
the service performance of the public sector will be questioned within the budget process.
The budget will be restructured in a service-oriented manner to finance outputs, not inputs.
Effective coordination will be ensured in the budget preparation process.
Each year, the Budget Policy Statement will be made public along with the draft budget.
Medium-term fiscal program will be developed and
budgets will be prepared on a "multi-year" basis.
Broad fiscal powers will be delegated to public institutions in budget execution,
but they will be accountable to the public in detail.
Public investment stock will be reviewed, resources will be directed to appropriate projects in priority sectors
and investments will be brought to the economy at low cost.
Economic and social cost-benefit criteria will be rigorously applied in the inclusion of new projects in the investment program, and the
transformation of the investment stock into an irrational structure will be prevented.
Economic and social infrastructure investments will be prioritized and
inefficient expenditures such as construction of unnecessary public service buildings, purchase of vehicles, housing and social facilities will be avoided.
Legislative arrangements will be made to establish objective principles for the revenues and expenditures of revolving funds, foundations, associations, social facilities and special accounts within public institutions and organizations.
The public and Parliament will be informed about such revenues and expenditures,
income and expenditures will be audited.
Maximum savings will be made in current expenditures.
In the composition of current expenditures, items related to direct service delivery to citizens will be prioritized and
unnecessary expenditures of public officials will be reduced.
E- DEBT MANAGEMENT
As of end-July 2002, public sector debt stock reached TL 252.3 quadrillion, of which 130.4 quadrillion was domestic and 121.9 quadrillion (USD 73.9 billion) was external.
By the end of 2001, the gross debt stock of the public sector reached 123 percent of GDP and the ratio of net debt stock to GDP reached a high level of 93 percent.
According to the Maastricht criteria, the public net debt stock should not exceed 60 percent of GDP.
This high level of domestic debt stock also increased interest payments and in 2001, all tax revenues were used for interest payments on domestic and external debt.
According to the AK Party, one of Turkey's main economic problems is the "vicious debt-interest cycle".
This cycle must be broken,
public debt stock acceptable
and reduced to sustainable levels.
In order to achieve this, real interest rates should rapidly decline to reasonable levels, the
primary balance should continue to be in surplus,
privatization should be accelerated
and additional revenues should be generated, and
a permanent growth environment should be achieved in the economy.
Since 75 percent of our domestic debt stock is indexed to foreign exchange, inflation and interest rates, if the conditions listed above are met, a positive process will be entered in a short time regarding the sustainability of the debt stock.
Within the framework of these basic assessments and in order to achieve a sustainable debt structure: An
environment of confidence and stability will be created with a participatory approach that takes into account the needs of large segments of society, and
uncertainties will be eliminated,
expectations will turn positive
and real interest rates will be reduced to reasonable levels.
Increased efficiency and competition in the financial sector will be ensured.
Cash planning and management in the public sector is fragmented and disorganized.
The current single treasury account is not enough.
Necessary arrangements will be made to switch from this system to the public single account, which will enable effective cash planning and management in the public sector.
Inefficient public expenditures will be cut,
productive expenditures will be increased
and tax cuts will be introduced to stimulate economic activity.
Public offerings will be more widespread in public borrowing.
Detailed information on borrowing will be provided periodically by the Treasury to Parliament.
Privatization will be accelerated.
Restructuring of state-owned banks will be accelerated and
banks under SDIF will be resolved rapidly.
F- FINANCIAL SECTOR POLICIES
The function of the financial system in Turkey to support investment and production activities is insufficient compared to similar countries.
The financial crises, which occurred at short intervals, imposed significant burdens on the real sector and public finances
and prevented Turkey from transitioning to a sustainable growth environment.
The main reasons for the problems in the financial system are the dominance of banking in the financial sector,
inefficiency and lack of competition in the banking sector,
unstable macroeconomic structure and high public deficits,
abuse of banks by bank owners, and
weaknesses in supervision and control.
The main objective of our Party's policies towards the financial sector is to promote productive investments,
growth
and support macroeconomic stability,
Shock resistant
and healthy functioning,
Providing the long-term funds that our economy needs,
Increasing financial depth by ensuring the growth of the financial sector,
The conditions that create the conditions for competition in the financial system and
To create a financial system that enables the system to operate more effectively and efficiently.
Sound public finances
and monetary stability
are prerequisites for a healthy, efficient and stable financial system.
OUR PARTY will ensure more effective use of financial markets, instruments and institutions
and implement policies to mobilize new resources.
In this framework;
Competition in the banking sector will be ensured and
foreign capital inflows that will improve the quality of services will be supported.
Diversity in financial services will be increased, the
legal infrastructure of areas such as private finance institutions, venture capital institutions, investment banking and mortgage banking will be strengthened
and the development of these areas will be ensured.
Development and investment banks and export banks will be put in an effective position.
Microfinance institutions supporting small businesses and local production activities
and the development of specialized banking will be supported.
New financial instruments, policies and institutions will be established to enable our citizens abroad to transfer their savings to Turkey.
State-owned banks will be managed on commercial principles,
restructured financially and operationally, and privatized.
The funds allocated for the support of the agricultural sector and small-scale enterprises will be made available through the banking system.
Institutions responsible for oversight and supervision, such as the BRSA and the CMB, will be ensured to effectively fulfill their duties and responsibilities to ensure the stability of the financial system.
Coordination among institutions will be strengthened
and the public will be informed about their activities.
Arrangements will be made to increase the responsibilities of bank owners and managers and market actors in the supervision and control of the banking sector.
By correcting the aspects of the deposit insurance system that disrupt market discipline and lead to abuse,
will be gradually restored to a structure similar to that of advanced economies in terms of scope, limits and management.
The SDIF will be prevented from turning into a new SEE and the
collection of receivables transferred to the Fund will be accelerated.
Real estate and subsidiaries within the Fund will be sold rapidly.
The formation of new financial markets, instruments and institutions to resolve problematic loans and other assets will be supported.
SMEs' debts to the financial sector will be restructured.
By expanding the scope of compulsory insurance, the development of the insurance sector will be ensured.
Small investors in capital markets will be protected,
artificial price formation and insider trading will be prevented.
G- SEEs and PRIVATIZATION
State Economic Enterprises (SOEs) are monopolies or determinants in the sectors in which they operate.
Their operation in a risk-free environment using the advantages of public ownership disrupts the functioning of the market mechanism.
The privatization of SEEs, which have lost their economic rationality as a result of political interventions and have become a burden on the public, has become inevitable.
The main objective of privatization is to create the conditions for the free market to function better in the economy and to
increase efficiency and productivity.
The economic role of the public sector in a market economy is to create the regulatory and supervisory mechanisms necessary for the market mechanism to function well.
According to our party, the reasons for the lack of success in privatization practices are as follows:
Failure of the institution responsible for implementation to concentrate on privatization sufficiently,
Failure to determine the priorities in privatization,
Failure to select the enterprises to be included in the scope of privatization correctly,
Hidden resistance of the political will,
Involvement of shadows in some of the privatizations.
Our Party, which is determined to privatize SOEs, will carefully implement the following policies to accelerate the privatization process:
The opinions and suggestions of the relevant SOE management will be consulted while taking the privatization decision.
Legal and administrative arrangements will be made to accelerate the privatization process
and the Privatization Administration will be made flexible and dynamic to shorten the decision process.
Necessary measures will be taken to solve the unemployment problem that may arise as a result of privatizations.
Transparency will be essential in privatization transactions
and the public will be regularly informed.
Citizens working abroad will be encouraged to benefit from privatization practices.
SEEs in the privatization process will be divided into three groups according to their market position and activities, and different strategies will be developed for their privatization.
1. SEEs operating within the market mechanism will be urgently privatized.
2. SEEs that are monopolies or have the power to dominate and direct the market, to prevent market failures that may arise as a result of privatization,
to establish competition
and/or will be privatized after all regulatory measures for consumer protection are taken.
3. Privatization of SEEs related to agricultural support will be evaluated as a whole together with agricultural policies
and privatization will be initiated after the necessary measures are taken.
H- FIGHT AGAINST INFLATION
During the 25-year period, despite the stability programs implemented at regular intervals, inflation could not be reduced permanently and showed a
continuous upward trend.
As of 2001, only four countries (Angola, Congo, Zimbabwe and Belarus) had inflation rates above Turkey's.
Our economic program aims to bring inflation down to single digits.
The main driver of high inflation is the financing of high public deficits from Central Bank resources or through very high-cost domestic borrowing.
The attempt to eliminate losses in SEEs through price adjustments is another factor influential in the inflationary process.
Throughout the 1990s, the pressure of the public sector on the financial system gradually increased.
In an environment of insufficient financial deepening, interest rates rose and
maturities shortened.
Thus, inflationary expectations have become persistent.
The inflationary process in Turkey has turned into a self-feeding structure, with inflation® Depreciation of the Turkish lira in line with inflation®
increasing public prices, wages and other incomes in line with inflation®
rising inflationary expectations®
It has created a vicious circle of escalating inflation.
In the economic program we will implement, the strategy of monetary policy based on price stability will be preserved.
Fiscal policies that prioritize fiscal discipline will ensure the effectiveness of the Central Bank in the fight against inflation.
Our reform program for the financial sector will also help improve the effectiveness of monetary policy in combating inflation.
Our party's structural reform program aims to increase efficiency in the economy, especially in the public sector,
flexibility and increased competitiveness,
will contribute significantly to the fight against inflation.
Structural reforms to be implemented simultaneously with fiscal and monetary discipline will expand and maximize the utilization of productive capacity,
will be effective in bringing inflation down.
Real interest rates will be brought down to reasonable and sustainable levels under safe market conditions.
Thus, the bottlenecks in public sector financing will be overcome, the
inflationary pressure of high real interest rates will be significantly reduced
and the cost of fighting inflation will be minimized.
I) REVITALIZATION OF THE REAL SECTOR
Due to the economic crisis, investments have come to a standstill,
hundreds of thousands of tradesmen have closed their shutters, and
millions of people, most of whom are skilled workers, have become unemployed.
The real sector has been completely neglected in the economic programs implemented, despite the fact that the problems of the real sector concern a very large segment of society.
Our Party will take urgent measures for the real sector in parallel with the fiscal and monetary policies it will implement.
The main objectives of our real sector policies are:  To increase production in facilities operating below their capacities due to the crisis, To
start production in profitable enterprises closed down due to lack of capital, To
accelerating new investments that have come to a standstill.
create the necessary environment for a real investment mobilization by
The most important way to prevent unemployment in Turkey is to increase the production of the real sector.
In order to overcome the problems of the real sector, political and economic stability must first be ensured by establishing an environment of confidence.
Thus, predictability in the economy will increase and
real sector organizations will be able to make their future decisions more easily.
Moreover, a transparent, fair, decentralized and effective support system for the real sector needs to be established.
Within the framework of these general policies to solve the problems of the real sector; administrative and bureaucratic obstacles in front of investors will be removed and
legislation will be simplified.
With the reduction of the public debt stock, the public sector will cease to absorb a significant portion of the funds in the financial sector,
The financial sector will be able to channel these resources to private sector organizations.
Savings that have fled out of the system will start to return to the financial system in parallel with the establishment of an environment of confidence.
The financial system will be able to lend these new resources to the real sector.
Interest expenses, one of the most important expense items of the real sector, will decrease significantly with the fall in interest rates.
Rates of taxes such as VAT, corporate tax and income tax will be reduced,
unregistered economic activities will be prevented and
unfair competition against registered enterprises will be prevented.
The unacceptable levels of income tax and insurance premiums charged to workers have led to a shift in employment towards informal employment.
By reducing income tax and insurance premiums on employment, labor costs of the real sector will be reduced and
social security rights will be protected by ensuring that employees are registered.
This will create new employment opportunities.
In recent years, in order to close public deficits, very high taxes have been imposed on the prices of the basic inputs of industry, such as energy and communications, and
prices have risen far above world standards.
These taxes will help the real sector gain international competitiveness.
and to standards that will allow it to increase its export potential.
A supply-demand balance will be established in the energy sector, initiatives to increase efficiency will be supported, and
a cheaper and more secure energy supply will be ensured to increase the competitiveness of our domestic industry.
By making legal arrangements for the execution of incentive measures by local institutions or professional organizations, bureaucratic procedures will be reduced and it will
be easier to monitor the use of incentives provided in accordance with their purpose.
SMEs will be provided with affordable investment and operating loans, the
number of banks intermediating loans will be increased and
all private banks and private financial institutions will be included in the system.
Risk capital practices in SME investments will be developed.
SME stock exchanges will be established and
stocks of SMEs will be traded on these exchanges.
Regional and sectoral distinctions will be reviewed and supports will be redefined to eliminate imbalances between regions.
In this framework, long-term tax exemptions for investments in provinces with very low levels of development,
allocation of land and land plots,
Incentives such as low employment tax will be applied.
Land will be allocated free of charge to investors in organized industrial zones in priority regions for development and in industrial zones with infrastructure prepared in some large provinces, and
these zones will be transformed into centers of attraction with other supports to be provided.
Turkish producers will be prevented from unfair competition due to the "inward processing regime" and customs malpractices.
J- ATTRACTING FOREIGN CAPITAL
Foreign capital is of great importance for Turkey to enter a period of rapid and stable development.
Foreign capital should be analyzed under two separate headings:
The first is "portfolio investments" and
the second is "foreign direct investments".
The drawbacks of growth models based solely on portfolio investments, that is, solely on the flow of hot money, have been clearly revealed in the crises in Turkey.
In addition to portfolio investments, foreign direct investments should also be given importance.
In 2000, foreign direct investment flows in the world totaled more than 1.2 trillion dollars.
In Turkey, this figure is even below 1 billion dollars per year.
Foreign direct investments are of great importance for the development of developing countries, including Turkey.
Looking at developing countries in Eastern Europe, the Far East and Latin America, it is seen that FDI plays a major role in financing the development of these countries and transferring advanced technology to these countries.
There are huge obstacles to foreign capital in Turkey.
Political and economic instability, inadequate legal infrastructure, slow functioning of the judiciary, corruption, bureaucratic difficulties, frequent changes in laws, lack of implementation of written legislation, lack of written practices, lack of inflation adjustment of taxable earnings, lack of transparency and reliability of financial statements, etc. constitute major obstacles to the flow of foreign capital to Turkey.
The following policies will be implemented to increase foreign direct capital inflows:
Political and economic stability will be ensured,
an environment of trust will be created,
uncertainties about the future will be eliminated.
A clearly defined legal order in line with universal standards,
a reliable and functioning justice mechanism,
guaranteed property rights will be ensured.
Inflation adjusted accounting techniques will be applied in determining taxable income.
By taking concrete and sincere steps towards full membership of the European Union,
necessary environment will be prepared for European Union companies to invest in Turkey.
The duties and authorities of institutions and organizations related to foreign capital will be redefined and a
single competent authority will be established for investors to deal with.
Procedures related to foreign investments will be accelerated and
their finalization will be tied to definite deadlines.
Overseas promotional activities for foreign investors will be improved, and
"Turkey" will become an international brand.
Necessary steps will be taken to ensure that foreign capital is also active in privatization transactions.
Institutional and structural deficiencies in intellectual property rights and competition protection will be eliminated.
More effective use of free zones
and will be better promoted to foreign investors,
tax exemptions will be maintained.
Other recommendations in the report, including the results of studies by the International Finance Corporation (IFC) and the Foreign Investment Advisory Service (FIAS), an affiliate of the World Bank, will also be taken into account.
K- A NEW EXPORT DRIVE
The most important element of our party's economic growth model is exports.
Our industry reaches an efficiency that can compete internationally
and the development of exports is of great importance for Turkey to open up to the world and become a country fully integrated into the global economic system.
Our Party will give full support to our exporters in every issue
and will ensure that a new export move begins in our country.
Turkey's export volume has increased significantly, especially after 1980, and
our economy has opened up to the world to a certain extent.
However, due to lack of good planning and guidance, sufficient increases in productivity and capacity have not been achieved.
Due to political and economic instability, large fluctuations in exchange rates and the resulting climate of insecurity, exports in Turkey have failed to grow steadily.
Exports have become sectorally dependent, and
exports of high value-added and high-tech products have not made sufficient progress.
Exports were mainly directed to EU countries, while
exports to other major markets and neighboring countries remained limited.
This has created regional dependency in exports.
Turkey's trade with neighboring countries has remained very low.
OUR PARTY promotes the development of trade with our neighbors,
as the most important source of regional development.
Improved trade with neighbors will also contribute to regional security.
Turkey is unable to utilize its potential in both product and service exports.
The following measures will be taken to ensure a steady and high increase in exports:
In order to avoid the negative effects of globalization and to get rid of sectoral dependency, a new strategic planning will be made with the participation of the private sector.
Taking into account global trends and the preferences of the private sector, sectors in which Turkey has a competitive advantage and high value-added will be identified.
These sectors will be supported in line with international norms.
In order to get rid of regional dependence, it is necessary to turn to new markets.
In this context, the focus will be on the markets of the Commonwealth of Independent States, the Middle East and the Black Sea, Central and Eastern Europe, North America, the Far East, Latin America and Africa.
Maximum effort will be made to increase trade with our neighbors.
Initiatives by the private sector to create international brands in Turkey will be supported.
High taxes on energy, employment and communication, which constitute the most important inputs of exporters, will be reduced and
our exporters will be enabled to compete easily in international markets.
Exchange rates will be stabilized,
forward foreign exchange markets will be established and exporters will be able to insure their exchange rates.
By reducing the public debt stock, the public sector will cease to absorb a significant portion of the funds in the financial sector, which will be
able to channel these resources to exporting firms.
Eximbank will be the engine of our export drive.
Eximbank will be restructured, its resources will be strengthened,
bureaucratic obstacles to its operation will be removed
and exporters will be provided with easier access to collateral.
The bureaucracy related to VAT refunds on exports, which has become a major problem today, will be reduced and
refunds will be made quickly.
L- CHEAP and SAFE ENERGY
Sustainable development
and energy policies are one of the most important tools for creating a globally competitive economy.
With their recent policies, past governments have made energy an urgent and intractable problem for Turkey.
"Take-or-pay" agreements, concession and transfer of operating rights contracts, which are incompatible with Turkey's foreseeable growth perspectives, expose Turkey to an increasingly difficult financial burden.
This financial burden, passed on to consumers through high unit prices and high taxes, has the effect of discouraging energy consumption,
slowing growth,
reducing the competitiveness of our domestic industry
and discouraging foreign capital investments.
Recent economic crises and the phenomenon of negative growth have exacerbated the problem.
Our Party's energy policies are based on providing cheap and reliable energy
, creating a competitive energy market
, reducing the burden on citizens' budgets
, and protecting the environment and human health.
In order to realize these objectives; Renewable and alternative energy sources will be used.
Clean energy sources and conversion technology will be utilized to protect the environment.
Efficiency in generation, transmission, distribution and service provision will be increased.
The energy market will be made competitive and cheaper energy will be provided.
Turkey will become a regional power in energy by making good use of the opportunities of being a distribution terminal for the oil and natural gas in our neighbors to the world markets.
The energy demand of 126.9 billion kWh/year in 2001 is estimated to rise to 270 billion kWh/year in 2010.
In order to meet this increase in demand in a sustainable manner, the following policies will be implemented:  Privatization in the electric energy sector will be accelerated by adopting liberal policies based on competition and aiming to increase quality and decrease costs.
In the field of electrical energy, the transmission infrastructure that will enable electricity exchange with European and regional countries
and emphasis will be placed on the development of market order.
In order to reduce foreign dependency in energy, which is currently 65 percent, domestic and alternative resources such as solar, wind, geo-thermal and bio-mas will be turned to, and
domestic lignite and hydroelectric projects will be realized rapidly.
as an alternative or substitute investment to foreign-dependent natural gas-fired power plants,
by taking the necessary safety and environmental protection measures.
Nuclear power plants will be established
Power outages and voltage changes cause significant losses in industry.
In order to ensure the quality and continuity of energy supplied to consumers, measures will be taken to eliminate the problems in distribution.
Necessary measures will be taken to reduce the high loss and leakage rates at the transmission, distribution and billing stages to acceptable values.
Projects to expand the use of natural gas will be accelerated.
Policies for the transportation of natural gas and oil of the Caspian region to world markets through Turkey will be maintained.
By aligning our oil and gas policies with our foreign policy,
It will be ensured to be a unifying element in our relations with brotherly Central-Asian and Caucasian countries.
Considering that the environment is an element of value and cost, pollutants generated during energy conversion processes will be rigorously controlled.
M- MINING
Although there are many types of minerals in our country, our known mineral resources are not at the desired level in terms of quantity and operability.
In the mining sector; increasing our economically exploitable mineral reserves by focusing on exploration activities,
ensuring the raw material demands of the industrial and energy sectors in a cheap and safe manner
and to increase our exports of processed goods.
In line with this objective; by creating an investment environment that will encourage domestic and foreign capital to be oriented towards the sector in mineral exploration and production, the
necessary infrastructure support will be provided for the private sector to be oriented towards mineral exploration activities;
due to the risky nature of the sector, incentives specific to this sector will be applied.
The necessary infrastructure will be created for our public institutions engaged in exploration activities to engage in exploration activities with private sector companies in Turkey and abroad.
Measures will be taken to reduce bureaucracy in mineral exploration and exploitation phases.
There is a great marble potential in our country.
In order to revitalize the marble sector by mobilizing this potential, this sector will be supported for export.
In the production of mineral products, great care will be taken not to harm the environment.
All state-owned mining enterprises will be privatized gradually, and
different privatization methods will be applied for strategically important mines.
65 percent of the world's boron reserves are located in our country.
Turkey is the second largest producer and market maker in the world boron market after the USA.
Ninety-five percent of the boron we produce is exported.
A program for our boron mines, which are of economic and strategic importance for our country and are "national mines", will be implemented within the following framework:
Boron Enterprises will be restored to an autonomous structure within Eti Holding.
Investments to increase refined boron production will be completed rapidly.
In order to increase the utilization area of boron mineral, Boron Research Institute will be established and
resources will be allocated for research activities.
The private sector will be encouraged to enter into the production of end products (such as glass fiber, perborate) where boron ore is used as raw material.
The importance of boron in the developing hydrogen energy sector is increasing.
Studies on this subject will be followed up and
the Boron Enterprise will be involved in these studies when necessary.
N- TRANSPORTATION MOVE
In order to meet the needs of economic and social life in a timely and safe manner, the transportation system, which is one of the most important infrastructures of the national economy, must be operated in a healthy manner.
Unplanned, independent and short-term solutions in almost all of the transportation sub-sectors seem to be the most important problem of the transportation system in our country.
Our Party's first priority for the sector is to ensure the integration between the sub-sectors of transportation
, to provide the maximum contribution to economic growth
and to create a transportation infrastructure that does not destroy the environment.
For this purpose, a transportation master plan that will ensure a balance between modes of transportation will be prepared in order to create a transportation infrastructure in line with the expectations of the national economy and social life.
A transportation information system covering all transportation sub-sectors will be developed.
AK Party will give special priority to the development of our railways, which have been almost abandoned to their fate for years in our country, together with the private sector and within the framework of modern management understanding.
The General Directorate of TCDD will be restructured for this purpose.
Taking into account Turkey's geographical position and proximity to international waterways and energy resources, an integrated transportation system covering all transportation sectors will be developed for Europe-Asia traffic.
In line with the position of Turkey, joint investment opportunities with neighboring countries will be explored and
technical support will be provided for the development of transport systems of the Caucasus and Central Asian countries.
The Bosphorus Railway-Tube Crossing and Gebze-Halkalı suburban line projects, which have been on the agenda for many years, will be realized as soon as possible.
Support will be given to projects that will increase the share of the Turkish maritime fleet in transportation from 30 percent to 50 percent.
Taking into account that the cabotage monopoly will be abolished following Turkey's full membership to the EU, maritime transportation will be made more efficient in freight and passenger transportation.
Support will be given to maritime transportation projects for scheduled freight and passenger transportation, especially in the Aegean and Black Sea regions.
Ports will be managed as independent enterprises under the supervision of the central administration and will be made ready for international competition.
The shipbuilding sector will be supported to meet the ship needs of domestic and foreign shipowners.
The technical infrastructure and standards of airports will be raised and the
establishment of private aviation enterprises will be supported.
Highway infrastructure will be strengthened with the divided road system in the sections required by the traffic,
north-south connections on the main routes will be improved, and
extraordinary attention will be paid to eliminate the black spots where traffic accidents are concentrated on our highways.
15,000 kilometers of highways will be converted into double roads.
State highways, especially some intermediate arterial roads, which are particularly burdened, will be converted into double roads as soon as possible in a mobilization approach.
Thus, traffic accidents will be significantly reduced, while the areas around these roads will develop faster
and regional development will be balanced.
Viable financing models will be developed for the realization of highway construction and operation by the private sector.
O- DEVELOPMENT OF TOURISM
Turkey has an outstanding tourism potential with its natural environmental values, historical and cultural heritage, and people who fascinate everyone who has the opportunity to get to know them.
Since the 1980s, investments made in the field of leisure tourism have enabled us to gain an important place in European markets
and to increase the share of the tourism sector in our economy.
However, due to some problems starting from the planning stage of tourism regions, especially the problems created by the centralized planning and management approach, wrong practices have been implemented on the coastlines.
In order to overcome these mistakes, coastline tourism should be structured with a new approach.
The rich tourism potential of our country should be mobilized and a move should be initiated in the fields of business-congress, fair, sports and cultural tourism, which have an important place in the world tourism pie, to ensure that we reach the position we have achieved in leisure tourism.
It is time to gradually redirect investment and marketing priorities in the tourism sector to these areas, which can be grouped under the heading of "urban tourism".
In the light of these developments; as a requirement of sustainable tourism, an understanding that takes into account the demands and requirements of the natural-cultural and social environment will be adopted in all practices in the field of tourism.
All policies in the fields of management, investment and marketing in the tourism sector will be transformed from the current "product and business" oriented approach to a "destination" oriented approach designed in harmony with the physical, cultural and social environment.
The powers, responsibilities and relations of the Ministry of Tourism, sectoral organizations and local administrations will be put into a new legal framework within the above-mentioned understanding.
With these regulations, the legislative infrastructure that increases the powers and opportunities of sector organizations and local administrations will be developed.
Promotion projects aimed at establishing the "Turkey" brand as a tourism country will be emphasized, and
coordination of these projects with foreign trade and foreign capital policies will be pursued.
Istanbul, with its huge tourism potential, will be given special attention
and all contributions will be made to mobilize this potential in cooperation with local governments.
Tourism-specific human resources programs will be developed, taking into account the sector's strength in generating employment.
The market and promotion opportunities provided by tourism will be utilized properly and traditional handicrafts will be turned into a vibrant sector.
Tourism investments will be considered as one of the important areas for attracting foreign capital within the framework of "regional development".
 
VII. AGRICULTURE and LIVESTOCK
The agricultural sector in Turkey has been neglected for years, and
our farmers and villagers have been adversely affected by the deep economic crisis in recent years.
The current economic program has also failed to solve the problems of the agricultural sector, and
our farmers have fallen into an even more difficult situation.
In recent years, prices of agricultural inputs such as diesel, fertilizer, pesticides, seeds and machinery have increased significantly, while the
increase in the prices of agricultural products has remained limited.
For example, our peasants, who could buy 1 liter of diesel fuel with 2 kilos of wheat in 1998, can only buy 1 liter of diesel fuel with 6 kilos of wheat today.
Economy of scale is very important in the efficient operation of agricultural enterprises.
In Turkey, the division of agricultural land from generation to generation has led to a gradual shrinking of the average agricultural enterprise area
and a decline in agricultural productivity.
In Turkey, the share of the agricultural sector in GNP declined to 14 percent.
On the other hand, about 40 percent of total civilian employment is in agriculture.
Therefore, the agricultural sector should not only be addressed within the scope of economic policies, but primarily within the scope of social policies.
Looking at the member states of the European Union, it is observed that the ratio of agricultural workers to total workers is only around 4 percent.
Nevertheless, EU support to the agricultural sector amounted to €104 billion in 2001.
State subsidies account for 35 percent of EU farmers' income.
Even for farmers in the US, the leading free market economy, this rate is 21 percent.
Looking at all these data, it is clear that the state in Turkey has to support the agricultural sector.
The important thing is to plan well what kind of projects and how this support will be provided.
The main objectives of our Party's agricultural policies are to make our country self-sufficient in terms of basic food products
, to keep fertile agricultural lands in constant use
, and to increase productivity in agricultural production.
The following policies will be implemented to achieve these basic objectives:  Instead of state intervention in prices, prices will be formed in the free market and production will be directed according to the demand under market conditions.
The state will stop trading agricultural products.
The development of commodity exchanges will be supported and
necessary measures will be taken to introduce futures transactions in these exchanges.
State support in agriculture will be handled within the scope of separate projects for each region and each product, and the
realities of our country will be taken into consideration while implementing the programs.
Defects in the Direct Income Support system, which is based on property ownership, will be eliminated and
a structure targeting low-income farmers will be established.
Direct income support and premium system will be applied to products such as oil crops, cotton, olives, wheat and corn, which have a supply deficit.
Reducing production costs such as fertilizers, diesel fuel, seeds and pesticides in order to ensure stable and high income for our farmers
and measures to accelerate technological development will be put into practice.
Efforts to establish a Land and Farmer Registration System will be completed and
Geographical Information System, Farm Accounting Data Network and Agriculture Information System will be developed.
Land registry and cadastre works of agricultural lands will be completed in a short time and land disputes will be resolved definitively.
SEEs engaged in agricultural activities will be privatized after necessary measures are taken, and
TMO will continue its activities within the framework of strategic stock management.
The Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Affairs will be restructured taking into account new conditions and needs.
Public cooperation with civil society will be improved by supporting producer associations, cooperatives, associations, foundations and companies.
Agricultural Sales Cooperatives and Unions and Agricultural Credit Cooperatives will be autonomized and necessary measures will be taken to ensure their rational operation.
In order to protect farmers and crops against risks, Risk Management tools will be developed;
agricultural insurance system, futures exchange, contract farming and stock management tools will be put into practice.
Seed industry will be encouraged in line with consumer preferences and quality production.
Ecological (organic) agriculture will be emphasized (703)
and supported.
Developments in the world on the protection of human health and the environment in the production of genetically modified organisms and products will be closely monitored.
In determining agricultural research priorities, the demands of farmers will be taken into account, taking into account market needs; the
participation and contribution of farmers will be ensured in the development and implementation of projects.
In our country with severe erosion problems, measures that take into account the environment and socio-economic conditions will be put into effect.
Land under threat of erosion will be allocated to permanent vegetation.
Livestock farming
The livestock sector in our country has been neglected for years.
With the impact of economic crises, Turkey has gone from exporting meat to importing meat.
While there were 16 million cattle in Turkey in 1980, this figure dropped to 11 million in 1999.
Again, while there were 46 million sheep in Turkey in 1979, this number dropped to 28 million in 2000.
There is a 30 percent decline in the number of cattle and a 38 percent decline in the number of sheep.
Considering that the population and national income of our country increased during this period, it is better understood how great the decline in the livestock sector has been.
The problem is not only that the number of animals is falling.
Productivity has also fallen.
Our country has a great potential in the livestock sector.
However, the high initial investment costs of the facilities and the need for qualified manpower and specialization make it difficult to establish modern facilities in our country.
Our Party's livestock policies are as follows:  Producer organizations will be encouraged, the
formation of larger scale enterprises will be ensured,
thus the economy arising from scale will be achieved.
Establishment of integrated livestock enterprises will be supported.
Necessary measures will be taken to bring the integrated white meat sector, which was adversely affected by the crisis, back to pre-crisis status.
Private sector organizations raising breeding animals will be supported and
local breeds will be improved.
State lands will be made available to private sector enterprises under favorable conditions.
Pasture improvement will be done,
The implementation of the Pasture Law will be made operational.
Fodder crops cultivation will be encouraged
Field fisheries will be encouraged, and
legal, institutional and technical studies for marine fisheries will be accelerated.
Production and market conditions will be improved based on EU Fisheries policy.
VIII. SOCIAL POLICIES
While economic policies are essential for increasing the welfare of society and creating quality living conditions for people, they are insufficient on their own.
Economic policies that are not coupled with effective social policy practices fail because they do not receive support from society.
Therefore, our Party will carry out economic development policies in balance with social policies.
A- FAIRNESS IN INCOME DISTRIBUTION
In recent years, especially with the impact of economic crises, income distribution between segments has deteriorated significantly,
decline in the welfare level of our people as a result of the real loss in wages and increasing unemployment.
Social unrest has increased among the poor, whose ability to withstand the crisis has eroded.
The richest 20 percent of our population has 10 times more income than the poorest 20 percent.
Turkey is one of the countries with the worst income distribution among OECD countries.
Increasing poverty, especially in urban areas, leads to the exclusion and marginalization of large masses of people from economic, political and social life.
This leads to a deterioration of peace and order in cities, a
widening gap in living standards between the rich and the poor,
social polarization and a widespread sense of "hopelessness".
In addition to the distortion in the distribution of personal income, development disparities between regions and provinces continue to increase.
The inflationary environment that has persisted for years has led to a shift of income from the poor to the rich, particularly in agriculture, and to the
complete disappearance of the middle income group.
The agricultural sector, which was already living in unfavorable conditions, has become desperate with the reduction of support.
As a result of the wrong economic policies implemented, the tax burden on working people has increased significantly, and
producers have been victimized at the expense of those earning rent income.
Job opportunities contracted significantly,
company bankruptcies accelerated
and finally, as a result of this unsustainable process, economic and social policies began to be determined by the IMF and the World Bank.
According to the AK Party, it is a "moral" obligation to place "human beings" at the center of economic development in order for policies to improve income distribution and fight against poverty to be successful.
Economic approaches whose ultimate goal is not "improving human welfare" result in social disasters.
Economic approaches with a moral perspective also represent an understanding that prioritizes the "social dimension" and "social justice".
International documents such as the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the European Social Charter clearly emphasize that "human beings have the right to live in dignity".
People have the universal right "not to be condemned to poverty".
"Eradication of poverty" is among the fundamental duties of governance as a moral duty of humanity.
In the process of globalization, the welfare and development gap between countries is widening, while the number of poor people is increasing.
From now on, economic and social policies should be reviewed and a "people-centered development" approach that prioritizes "social justice" should be adopted.
Within this understanding, the following policies will be implemented in the field of income distribution and poverty alleviation.
In the economic programs and policies to be implemented by our Party, "social justice" will be observed
and a new development approach that puts "human beings" at the center will be adopted.
The economic program to be implemented will be compatible with social policies,
ensure social integration and solidarity,
reduce unemployment and eliminate poverty; it will have a
more humane structure that will ensure the equitable distribution of the benefits of economic growth.
Increase the quality of the workforce
and policies will be implemented to provide the unemployed with skills in line with the demands of the labor market.
Scientific research will be conducted, public debate will be opened
and a comprehensive "anti-poverty" program will be implemented.
Structural and institutional defects that hinder production and employment growth will be removed and an
economic approach that paves the way for "investment" and "production" will be adopted.
The emergence of new entrepreneurs will be encouraged
and programs emphasizing rural development will be implemented.
The tax burden on working people will be gradually eased.
The social security network will be expanded
and aid institutions serving the poor will be restructured.
Priority will be given to those with poor income distribution to benefit from social services such as education and health.
B- FIGHT AGAINST CORRUPTION
Corruption is "the misuse of public funds for personal gain".
Corruption, which is a product and indicator of social, economic, cultural, political and, most importantly, moral decadence and rottenness, is a sign of the people's dependence on the bureaucracy,
to the political institution
and the state in general
and undermines trust in justice.
Rapid and unplanned urbanization, inequality in income distribution, failures in public administration, problems in the legal and justice system, and moral corruption in general can be considered among the main causes of corruption.
In recent years, it has become clear that corruption lies at the root of poverty and income inequality.
Bold steps will be taken in the fight against corruption in line with citizens' expectations from our Party.
The main priority in preventing corruption should be to rid politics and public administration of corruption.
A corruption-free politics and public administration will be able to take measures to eradicate corruption at the societal level.
In this struggle, large sections of society and civil society organizations that have remained clean should be involved in the solution of the problem and the struggle should be publicized.
To reduce corruption in public resource allocation mechanisms, transparency should be ensured in taxation, tenders, state aids, loans, incentives, subsidies, customs procedures, recruitment, promotions and appointments, and political-capital relations.
In fact, when the rule of law is fully realized
and the state returns to its core duties, the public sector will cease to be a rent distribution mechanism.
With the state withdrawing from production and shifting its regulatory and supervisory function to the forefront in competitive market conditions, the doors of rent in the public sector will automatically close.
Within the framework of the fight against corruption, the AK Party will take the following measures.
The assets of politicians and public administrators will be made transparent, and
legislation on what cannot be done after leaving office will be improved and rigorously enforced.
Necessary amendments will be made to the Law on Political Parties to make the financing of politics transparent and based on objective criteria.
Transparency will be the main principle and secrecy the exception in all public works and transactions.
To reveal the corruption cases that have reached great dimensions in our country in recent years, shaking the public's trust in the state and damaging the international image of our country
and necessary administrative and legal measures will be taken to punish offenders.
The "culture of secrecy", which has been unnecessarily expanded in public administration, will be combated. The
"Law on Citizens' Right to Information" will be enacted rapidly
and the document flow systems and decision-making processes of public institutions will be reorganized.
Recent changes in the public procurement system will be reviewed taking into account the corruption factor and the
procurement system will be improved in line with EU norms.
Through structural measures such as privatization, banking reform and local government reform, the public sector will cease to be a rent distribution mechanism and
citizens' efforts to protect their own resources will be supported.
Stationarism and bureaucratic formalities in public administration will be reduced,
legislation will be simplified
and in this way the problem of service delays, one of the most important excuses for corruption, will be solved.
Penalties for corruption will be toughened and the
legal process will be accelerated to prevent corruption from casting a shadow over the justice system.
The complex structure among audit units in the public sector will be simplified and
measures will be taken to ensure performance-oriented and effective auditing.
In this context, the independence of audit staff will be ensured
and areas closed to audit in the public sector will be minimized.
In addition to technical competence, integrity will be taken into account as a fundamental criterion in the appointment of public administrators
and a full merit system will be implemented.
Multi-dimensional solutions to the problem of corruption will be sought with the contribution of representatives of the political system, media, judicial system, public administration, civil society and the private sector,
and mechanisms will be established to clearly monitor developments.
Turkey's participation in the Group of States against Corruption (GRECO) established within the framework of the Council of Europe will be ensured and the
Criminal Law Convention on Corruption and the Civil Law Convention on Corruption prepared by the Council will be signed and ratified.
International cooperation will be emphasized in the prevention of corruption.
C- PREVENTION OF UNEMPLOYMENT
It is one of the fundamental duties of the modern state to create employment opportunities for its citizens so that they can earn a living by working.
Our country, which has a young population, faces the problem of "structural unemployment" caused by the inability to create enough employment opportunities for the growing population.
The following measures will be taken to solve these problems and reduce unemployment:
Economic growth,
increase employment
and the most fundamental way to reduce unemployment.
Sustainable growth will be ensured in the macroeconomic environment by encouraging domestic and foreign capital to invest in Turkey.
Full employment will be targeted when determining the national economic strategy,
economic growth with this goal in mind,
real sector investments
and production-oriented policies will be developed.
A manpower planning that will respond to the realities of the country and technological developments will be made and
vocational and technical education will be emphasized.
Short-term training and counseling services will be made effective in order to enable unemployed and unemployed people of all ages to have a profession in accordance with their interests, abilities and physical characteristics.
Emphasis will be given to the development of non-agricultural economic activities and agriculture-based industry in rural areas, and
policies will be implemented to shift the surplus active and low productive labor force in agriculture to the industrial sector and productive service areas through vocational training.
The Law on National Occupational Standards Institution will be enacted as soon as possible to ensure that people have a reliable document in terms of their professional qualifications,
National Occupational Standards and Certification System will be put into practice.
Non-standard flexible forms of work will be legalized in accordance with national conditions and international criteria.
By reviewing the taxes and premiums levied on employment and taking necessary measures, unregistered employment that leads to unfair competition
and foreign illegal labor will be prevented.
Development of SMEs will be supported by taking into account their efficiency and flexibility in employment creation, their adaptability to cyclical fluctuations, and their importance in eliminating interregional development and income disparities.
Measures will be taken to stimulate the construction sector, as it is a labor-intensive sector and mobilizes more than a hundred sub-sectors.
Child labor will be effectively combated and
children will be allowed to be employed only because of their vocational training.
D- QUALITY EDUCATION
The source and solution to most of the problems we face lies in education.
The main goal of our Party in education is "to raise generations free of thought, free of conscience and free of wisdom."
For this purpose, the people of our country,
Thinking freely and making independent decisions, (506)
Open to innovation,
Self-confidence,
A positive outlook on life,
Developed problem solving skills,
Able to produce science and technology,
measures will be taken to ensure that they are raised as individuals.
In order to achieve the goal of quality education in Turkey, the current prejudiced and rote-based approach will be abandoned,
emphasizing universal values,
A democratic and modern approach that places people at the center will be adopted.
Participatory channels will be kept open in the formulation of education policies and the delivery of education services.
The central organization of the Ministry of National Education will be restructured to enable effective coordination of education services, and
the number of hierarchical steps will be reduced to speed up the decision-making process.
The powers concentrated at the upper levels of the Ministry of National Education will be transferred to lower units and provincial administrations in a balanced manner, and the
role of local administrations in education will be increased.
In primary education, guidance is made effective,
Establishing a guidance system according to children's abilities and tendencies by ensuring the full participation of families
and efforts will be made to improve it.
Secondary education will consist of vocational and technical high schools that prepare students for both vocational and higher education, and high schools that prepare students only for university education.
The weight of vocational and technical high schools in secondary education will be increased
and the injustice arising from the university entrance exam system for graduates of these high schools will be corrected.
Curricula will be continuously renewed in accordance with the developing and changing conditions of the day, and the
MoNE Board of Education will be provided with the means and structure to realize this objective.
Contemporary educational methods and technologies will be closely monitored and
special emphasis will be placed on helping students acquire the ability to use computers and other technological tools.
E-education will be introduced at all levels of non-formal and formal education.
One of the main goals of education is to teach Turkish very well.
In today's world, where knowing a foreign language is becoming increasingly important, the aim will be to teach at least one foreign language well in schools instead of teaching in a foreign language.
In order for the teaching profession to achieve the prestige it deserves in society, the qualifications of teachers will be increased, and
in parallel, their personal rights and working conditions will be improved.
More resources will be allocated to education through cost-benefit analysis based on effective planning.
Private enterprise will be supported in all areas of education
and its share in education will be increased.
Based on the criterion of success, the state will purchase services in order to ensure that the children of families with poor financial conditions can also study in private schools.
Equality of opportunity and opportunity will be ensured at all levels of education, and
everyone will be provided with the maximum education service to the extent of their ability.
Obstacles to the exercise of the right to education will be removed,
education will be recognized and encouraged as a lifelong process, and horizontal and vertical transition between levels will be provided.
Universities
Our universities, whose main task is to freely produce and disseminate knowledge, to conduct scientific research and studies at national and international level and to provide quality education and training, have become a ball of problems due to the wrong policies implemented in recent years.
The increase in the number of students per faculty member,
inadequate university-industry cooperation, and
difficulties encountered in the exercise of academic freedoms have also prevented our universities from revealing their scientific research potential.
A fundamental reform is needed to solve these accumulated problems.
OUR PARTY will make arrangements to ensure that universities become teaching and research institutions in the modern sense.
The Council of Higher Education (YÖK) provides coordination between universities,
will be established in a structure that sets standards;
universities with administrative and academic autonomy,
research and teaching institutions where faculty members and students can freely engage in scientific activities.
Universities are a democratic space for all kinds of ideas,
taught and discussed in tolerance,
will be transformed into a free forum without bans and restrictions.
Within the framework of a project, the needs of universities in terms of teaching staff, physical infrastructure, documentation and equipment will be determined and their deficiencies will be met as soon as possible.
Legal arrangements will be made to ensure that academic administrators at all levels such as rectors, deans, heads of departments, department heads, department heads and institute directors are elected.
OUR PARTY is in favor of making universities more widespread throughout the country.
However, objective criteria will be developed for the establishment of new universities.
The university placement system leads to unfair and unjust practices that reduce the demand for vocational and technical education.
Exams will be modified to encourage competition and ensure fairness.
Two-year vocational colleges providing vocational education will be grouped separately from universities to train intermediate human resources.
Open education will be expanded as multifaceted educational institutions that enable people of all ages and professions to learn a profession or improve themselves.
E- HEALTHY SOCIETY
An effective and quality health system is indispensable for a quality society.
The state must fulfill everyone's basic health needs, if necessary in cooperation with the private sector.
In our country, the distribution of health services at the national level is uneven.
In some regions, physicians, nurses, midwives and auxiliary health personnel are insufficient.
The treatment of those who cannot benefit from the health services provided by the state in a timely and proper manner is heartbreaking.
The cost of lack of health services is human life.
For a quality health service; the
distinction between state hospitals, insurance hospitals and institutional hospitals will be abolished and hospitals will be given administrative and financial autonomy.
The Ministry of Health will be restructured according to this new system.
Health service delivery and financing will be separated.
Health insurance will be excluded from long-term insurance.
A General Health Insurance System will be established to cover the entire population, and
the premiums of those who cannot afford to pay will be paid by the state.
Special attention will be paid to maternal and child health, and a
robust patient referral chain system will be established through the introduction of family medicine.
Health personnel will be trained in quality and quantity in line with the needs and
their personal rights will be improved.
Preventive medicine will be encouraged and
measures will be taken for public and environmental health.
Information technology will be utilized to the maximum extent in the provision of health services and
a health information system will be established.
Private sector investment in health will be encouraged.
The Patient Rights Regulation will be revised according to world standards and the legal deficiency in the protection of patient rights will be eliminated.
F- SOCIAL SECURITY FOR ALL
It is essential that people live in economic and social security without discrimination.
In contemporary societies, where the traditional culture of solidarity is disappearing, there is a
need for a social security system that will enable people to feel secure in their present and future.
Since social insurance institutions in Turkey cannot survive on their own resources, they receive a large amount of funding from the budget.
Social insurance institutions differ in terms of the insurance programs implemented, the conditions for members to qualify for pensions, the lower and upper limits of pensions, premium rates, benefits and obligations.
In order to eliminate this difference and to establish a social insurance system that can finance itself with its own resources,
unity of norms and standards will be ensured in social security institutions and an
integrated social security network will be established within the framework of international conventions and basic principles of social security.
Administrative and financial efficiency and technological infrastructure of social insurance institutions will be strengthened;
information technology will be utilized to the maximum extent;
modern management techniques will be applied;
accounting systems will be harmonized with international accounting standards and with each other.
Premium rates will be redetermined in order to prevent unregistered employment and reduce the cost of enterprises, and
payments that are not equivalent to premiums will be abolished.
Long-term insurance programs will be separated from short-term programs, and health insurance programs from health service delivery.
Health insurance will be separated from long-term insurance.
All segments of society will be covered by social security.
The financial burden of the social security system on the budget will be reduced.
G- FAMILY, WOMEN and YOUTH
1. Strengthening the Family
Despite the deep economic difficulties, we owe our survival as a society largely to our strong family structure.
The sustainability of our family structure, which is also a strong social security institution, has become even more important in the process of change we are going through.
Our Party will support efforts to protect the family as the foundation of society.
Research on family structure, characteristics, situation and problems will be supported,
databases will be established to receive statistical data on families, and a
communication network will be established between institutions working in this field.
Broadcasts made through visual, print and internet media, especially those targeting the young population, will be encouraged to be protective of the Turkish family structure.
Organizational structures of institutions providing services for the family will be renewed, their
personnel needs will be met and
their legislation will be adapted to the conditions.
Services for childcare in families where both spouses work will be improved.
Arrangements will be made to ensure the participation of local governments in the implementation of family-related policies.
2. Women's Issues
Although our women share the burden of life with men, they have not achieved the status they deserve.
Our Party will take this into account in all the policies it will implement.
Our main goal will be to give our women the status to shoulder social responsibilities together with men.
Women are the group most affected by the problems.
Economic problems, lack of education, health problems, anxiety about the future, lack of social security and domestic violence are the main problems of women.
Women are among the groups most affected by regional disparities.
The gap between rural and urban women has widened with the economic crisis.
Our Party is committed to raising healthy generations
and to eliminate women's problems in order to ensure happiness in the family.
Arrangements will be made to implement the principles of the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women.
It will support associations, foundations and other non-governmental organizations related to women and
cooperate with these organizations when making legal and administrative arrangements concerning women.
Violence against women,
prevention of sexual and economic exploitation,
Supporting and protecting women in need will be among our priority policies.
Preventive and educational activities will be carried out for women and their families in regions where female suicides, honor killings and honor killings are common.
Local governments will be encouraged to work on women's issues.
Education projects for girls living in rural areas will be developed in accordance with the conditions of the regions where they live, and
non-governmental organizations working in this field will be supported.
Policies will be implemented to increase the enrollment rates of girls,
barriers to their education will be removed and
efforts will be made to raise awareness of families, especially in rural areas.
Skill courses will be organized for women living in rural areas according to local needs, and
women will be directed to production by providing the necessary venues for marketing local products.
Efforts will be made to provide social security for housewives.
New employment opportunities for women will be created while preserving the dignity of domestic labor.
3. Youth is Our Future
Youth is not only the wealth of our country, but also the source of its dynamism and potential for change.
Having a young population is a great opportunity for Turkey.
However, many of our young people are not well educated, are left unemployed, their energy is suppressed, they are not given a voice, they are not trusted and at times even seen as a threat.
Our Party considers ensuring the trust of society in young people and of young people in Turkey among its main goals.
Our goal is to raise young people who are free-thinking, self-determining, inquisitive, aware of the truths of their own society and universal understanding, and equipped and capable of coping with the challenges of life.
Equality of opportunity in services provided to youth,
attention will be paid to the healthy development of young people in terms of personality, thought and body,
culture, arts and sports activities will be encouraged.
Culture, art, sports, folklore, reading and research activities of local administrations for young people will be encouraged and
private sector will be encouraged to invest in this field.
To strengthen the ties of our young people living abroad to our country,
Strengthen relations with Turkey,
In order to keep away from activities contrary to our national interests, sportive and cultural activities that integrate and integrate with our youth at home will be encouraged.
The participation of young people in political and social life will be encouraged, and
for this purpose, the age of election will be lowered to 25.
Necessary measures will be taken to combat substance abuse, and
effective coordination will be ensured among the institutions carrying out activities in this field.
Provincial Education and Youth Commissions established in the provinces will be made more active and interested in all youth issues.
H- OUR DISABLED CITIZENS
Self-sufficiency of disabled people in the state understanding of our age,
reach a certain level of knowledge and culture,
to become productive by acquiring a profession and to participate in social life by establishing healthy relationships with their environment
is a constitutional duty imposed on the state.
By meeting the needs of disabled citizens in areas such as education, rehabilitation, health, law and administration,
It will enable them to live with minimal dependence on others.
The principle of "No discrimination will be allowed between people because of their physical and mental disabilities" will form the basis of our Party's policy on disabled people.
In addition to the public sector, the private sector and voluntary organizations will be encouraged to provide training for the disabled.
Support will be given to disabled citizens who have the opportunity to start their own business.
A system will be established to ensure that those who receive such support can support their disabled friends who come after them with their experiences.
In provinces and large districts, priority will be given to the opening of protected or supported workplaces for citizens whose disabilities require them to work under special conditions.
Emphasis will be given to medical, psychological, vocational and social rehabilitation activities for disabled groups;
in particular, it will be ensured that disabled people who could not receive education at a young age receive services from rehabilitation centers.
Camps for the disabled will be opened within the scope of social rehabilitation.
Day or residential care homes will be opened for disabled people in need of care, and
the worries and fears of families about the future of their children will be eliminated.
Necessary information and awareness-raising activities will be carried out in order to provide the society with accurate information about the disabled.
The production of technology for the completion of deficiencies arising from organ loss or loss of organ function will be encouraged.
The scope of disabled equipment covered by social security institutions will be expanded.
Computer and similar technology will be taught in special education institutions, and
disabled citizens will be enabled to use this technology in their private lives and businesses.
The central government will assume a regulatory, coordinating and supervisory role in providing services to the disabled, while
local governments, with the participation of voluntary organizations and the private sector, will provide the main services.
Sports clubs will be encouraged to prepare opportunities for disabled people to do sports and
national and international sports competitions will be made traditional.
IX. FOREIGN POLICY
Turkey's geopolitical position has the potential to be a magnet for many cooperation projects.
Transforming this potential into regional and global impact depends on the smart use of geopolitics in international political, economic and security relations.
The dynamic conjuncture of the post-Cold War era has created a favorable environment for developing a multi-alternative foreign policy.
The role of military alliances and blocs as the determining factor of international relations has significantly diminished
and cooperation projects have become a common tool of inter-state relations.
In this new environment, Turkey needs to reorganize and rebuild its relations with power centers in an alternative, flexible and multi-axial manner.
Our Party will pursue a realistic foreign policy that is worthy of Turkey's history and geographical position, free from prejudices and obsessions, and based on mutual interest relations.
Turkey respects the territorial integrity and sovereignty of other countries and considers it a right for other countries and international organizations to respect its territorial integrity and sovereignty.
Redefining Turkey's foreign policy priorities in the face of changing regional and global realities
and must strike a new balance between these realities and its national interests.
In this framework, our Party will harmonize Turkey's foreign policy with a long-term perspective and with the regional and global conjuncture based on new dynamics.
He is of the view that it is insufficient to carry out the decision-making and implementation process in foreign policy only with the participation of the bureaucracy.
He believes that Turkey's influence and power in foreign policy will increase by ensuring the participation of Parliament and various segments of society in such decisions.
There is no doubt that strategic studies, scenario analyses and future projections in international relations are crucial for the development of foreign policy instruments.
Therefore, cooperation will be established with foreign policy research centers, foreign policy institutes and international relations departments in universities.
With its democracy, economy and governance that respects human rights, Turkey is a factor of stability in its region.
With these qualities, it will take more initiative in the crisis regions around it
and try to contribute more concretely to the resolution of crises.
Our Party is of the view that the regional security environment contributes significantly to economic development.
Therefore, Turkey will make more efforts to establish confidence and stability in its immediate neighborhood,
increase its efforts to maintain dialogue-based relations with its neighbors, and
thus contribute more to the development of regional cooperation.
Turkey has close relations with Europe both geographically and historically.
Relations with European countries will continue to be at the top of Turkey's foreign policy agenda.
In its relations with the European Union, Turkey will fulfill its commitments and the conditions that the Union requires other candidate countries to fulfill as soon as possible, and will
try to prevent the agenda from being occupied with artificial problems.
In parallel with Turkey's contribution to NATO to date, Turkey will
continue its efforts to take its rightful place in the European Security and Defense Concept (ESDP) established within the framework of the new European Defense Strategy.
Political and economic cooperation between Turkey and friendly and allied countries will be intensified in the fields of science, culture, technology, investment and trade.
After the September 11 attacks in the US, terrorism has become a decisive factor in international politics.
OUR PARTY, establishing international grounds against terrorism
and Turkey to cooperate and fight against terrorism on these grounds.
Cooperation with the United States of America, which has long been predominantly defense-oriented, will continue
and this cooperation will be extended to the fields of economy, investment, science and technology.
Friendly relations with the Russian Federation in Central Asia and the Caucasus based on cooperation rather than competition will be maintained.
Relations with neighboring Greece, based on mutual economic interests, will continue to be enhanced and
the environment of trust that these relations will create will pave the way for the solution of more complex political problems.
Our Party believes that a solution to the Cyprus problem must be found.
There is no doubt that the existence, identity and self-determination of the Turkish people on the island cannot be ignored in any solution.
It is in the interest of both sides to establish a state administration consisting of two sovereign communities, as in Belgium.
Admitting Greek Cyprus to the European Union without resolving this issue will further complicate the problem.
Despite our historical, cultural and social affinity with the Central Asian Turkic Republics, it is a fact that Turkey's relations with these countries have not met expectations.
AK Party will endeavor to carry relations with the Turkic Republics to the highest level and to transform the region into a wide area of cooperation.
The bloodshed in the Middle East is a matter of grief and concern for the Turkish people, who have close cultural and historical ties with this region, as well as for the entire world community.
AK Party believes that the only way to stop the bloodshed and tears, regardless of religion or race, and regardless of who they belong to, is through a lasting peace.
Turkey will continue to support efforts to establish peace in Palestine.
Our Party attaches special importance to Turkey's relations with Islamic Countries.
On the one hand, increasing our bilateral cooperation with these countries,
On the other hand, the Organization of the Islamic Conference (OIC) will strive for a more prestigious place in the international arena and a dynamic structure capable of taking initiative.
In this context, the OIC, chaired by our President, will try to give more concrete content to the activities of the Standing Committee for Economic and Commercial Cooperation (COMCEC).
The end of the Cold War and the collapse of the Eastern Bloc led to the emergence of a new area of cooperation in the Black Sea region.
It will strive to mobilize the potential of the Organization of the Black Sea Economic Cooperation (BSEC), which promises new cooperation opportunities for the countries of the region.
Turkey is concerned about the uncertainty in Iraq, its immediate neighbor.
The disruption of Iraq's territorial integrity will change the entire balance in the Middle East.
AK Party is in favor of the Iraqi government's full implementation of the United Nations resolutions and the peaceful resolution of the conflict.
In addition to the traditional Atlantic and European dimensions of our foreign policy, efforts to develop a Eurasian-oriented policy will continue.
In this context, cooperation within the framework of the Economic Cooperation Organization (ECO) will be strengthened.
It will seek opportunities for cooperation in the Caucasus, leaving Cold War-era conditioning aside, and will
try to contribute to the economic integration of this region, which has rich underground and aboveground resources, with the Middle East and the Balkans.
Relations with China and the dynamic economies of South-East Asia will be handled in a multifaceted manner, and
Turkey will seek to develop closer ties with these countries.
Our Balkan policy will be developed in the light of our historical, cultural and economic relations with the countries in the region,
will be reshaped if necessary.
Efforts will be made to further protect the rights of Turkish citizens living abroad in the countries where they reside, and
existing mechanisms will be operated more effectively to eliminate the problems they face both in those countries and in Turkey.
 
