ready for turkey
TARGET 2023
June 12, 2011 General Elections
ELECTION MANIFESTO
Table of Contents
JUNE 12 GENERAL ELECTIONS
Election
Declaration
Presentation 6 Advanced Democracy 8 Democratization 9 Strong Political Institution 13 Strong Civil Society 14 New Constitution 15 Reassuring Justice System 17 A Free and Secure Social Life 21 Citizen and Result-Oriented Governance 25 Great Economy 30 Philosophy of the Economic Program 32 Global Developments and Turkey 34 Macroeconomic and Sectoral Policies, Targets 36 Macroeconomics 36 Fiscal Policy 37 Revenue Policy 38 Public Expenditures and Investments 39 Monetary Policy 40 Financial Services 40 Balance of Payments 41 Employment and Working Life 42 R&D and Innovation 48 Microeconomics, Entrepreneurship and Industrial Policies 51 Defense Industry 55 Exports of Goods and Services 56 Construction, Technical Consultancy and Contracting Services 57 Customs Services 58 Tourism 59 Agriculture 61 Energy and Mining 64 Transportation, Communication, Information and Communication Technologies 67
Strong Society 76 Education 78 Health 82 Culture 86 Family 90 Women 92 Youth 95 Sports 98 Social Security 101 Fight against Poverty and Social Supports 104 Policies for Disadvantaged Groups 108 Disabled People 110 Elderly People 112 Children in Need of Protection 113 Widows and Orphans of Martyrs, Invalids and Veterans 115 Foundations 117
Livable Environment and Brand Cities 120 Target: Brand Cities 122 Livable Environment 122 Water Resources 125 Forests 125 Waste Management 126 Environmentally Friendly Transportation 126 Clean Energy Resources 128 Livable Cities 128 Infrastructure Services 129 Urban Transportation 130 Housing 131 Urban Transformation 132 Property and Zoning Planning 133 Barrier-Free Cities 135 Disaster Management 136 Local Governments 137 City Policies for Global Competition 138 Istanbul 138 Ankara 140 Izmir 141 Regional and Rural Development 143
Leading Country 146 Our Foreign Policy Approach 148 Relations with the European Union 151 United States 152 Cyprus 153 Middle East 153 Balkans 154 Russia and Caucasus 155 Central Asia and Turkic Republics 155 Africa 156 East and Southeast Asia 156 Latin America 157 Foreign Aid 158 Defense 158
On November 3, 2002, going into the elections, we said, "The source is Turkey"...
He stated that Turkey is the best resource with its history, culture, civilization, honest, brave, dynamic, entrepreneurial people, youth and potential,
We set out believing in Turkey.
The last 8.5 years have been a clear proof of how right we were in believing and trusting in Turkey.
When we set out, we knew and saw that what this nation and this country needed most was self-confidence.
We believed with all our hearts that this nation, when it trusted itself, its country and each other, would overcome all obstacles, leave all problems behind, and rush forward to a strong and bright future.
The last thing the nation needed was disappointment.
We could not tolerate a nation that had experienced years of disappointment, lost all its gains overnight in political and economic crises, and had given up hope in the will of politics to find a solution, to lose hope again.
We were aware that we were the hope of the country and the nation...
We were aware that we were a beacon of hope not only for the solution of their problems, but also to prevent those problems from happening again, to prevent disappointments from happening again and again, to prevent Turkey from going back to where it started.
In our long and blessed journey, politics has never meant anything to us except serving the nation.
The ambition for power and office, which rotted politics from within and caused the country to pay a heavy price, did not find a place in our understanding of politics.
The future and interests of the nation, the direction of our nation, the trust that our nation has entrusted to us, have always been considered sacred by us and have been preserved with sensitivity.
The AK Party is a party founded by the nation, whose direction is drawn by the nation, whose course is determined by the nation, and it has never deviated from this understanding throughout its long journey.
It is this style of politics and this understanding that, in more than 8 years, has added new ones to the accumulations of 78 years, and has put much more than what has been done in 78 years into the service of the country and the nation in this period.
No tolerance for corruption, no tolerance for prohibitions,
The AK Party government, which has demonstrated a complete fight against poverty, has enabled our country to experience firsts and to achieve successes that make us all happy as a nation,
He achieved this with his AK cadres, AK organization and 74 million citizens of the Republic of Turkey.
We are happy that today, what we have brought to Turkey, our works, services and investments cannot be counted in a snap, they do not fit into lists.
Again, fortunately for us, it is what we do that tells more about us than who we are.
From hamlets and plateaus to villages, from towns and districts to big cities, classrooms, universities, roads, modern residences, dams, hospitals, justice palaces tell our story.
Children with hope in their eyes, young people looking to the future with confidence, the self-confidence of tradesmen, farmers, peasants, workers, civil servants and industrialists tell us about us.
The joy of our people who have not been asked for years, the enthusiasm of our neglected and marginalized brothers and sisters, the excitement of our citizens whose problems have been denied, and the smiles of individuals whose trust in the state has been shaken tell about us and what we do.
Not only Turkey, not only 74 million people, but also our brothers and sisters in the Middle East, the Balkans and the Caucasus; our expatriate citizens from Melbörn to Toronto; the oppressed in Baghdad, Kabul, Jerusalem and Gaza; our compatriots from Beijing to Sarajevo.
As we enter the June 12 elections, we again draw our strength, excitement and energy from our nation, and with the blessings of our nation, we set sail for much wider horizons today.
Our politics, which set out with the motto "Everything is for Turkey" and added dignity to our country's reputation, strength to its power and value to its value, is preparing to put the power it receives from the nation back into the service of our nation for a more dynamic, more effective and bigger Turkey in the new period.
The Declaration in your hand is a road map of our vision of the future, the horizon we envision for Turkey and the goals we set.
This Declaration is a roadmap not only for the upcoming period, but also for the steps to be taken and the breakthroughs to be realized by the AK Party government for the ideal of Turkey that every Turkish citizen dreams of on the road to the 100th anniversary of our Republic.
Our horizon is 2023, the 100th anniversary of the founding of our Republic.
In this election manifesto, we are laying out our goals for the next four years, while also setting out a new vision for the 100th anniversary of the founding of our Republic.
We are once again thinking big and excited to take big steps for Turkey.
For 8.5 years, we never resorted to populism; we did not adopt deceiving the nation and the voters as a political style,
We never promised what we could not do,
We stood firmly behind what we promised.
In 2002, we came to power by saying "We will not make any promises for 3 years, what we will do will tell about us".
Because the state of our country gave our people neither confidence nor a sense of future.
Today, if we can talk about the 2023 targets, this has been made possible by the confidence and stability we have brought to our country in the last 8.5 years of AK Party's rule, and our great reforms and achievements.
It sets as a target what we can do in the coming period;
In order to achieve our goals, we appear before our nation with clear resources, ready projects and realizable targets.
We thought that this country and this nation deserved the best and the most beautiful;
For 8.5 years, we pursued this ideal day and night.
Today, we are closer to this ideal than ever before.
Our aim is to make Turkey one of the world's top 10 economies in 2023, a country with exports of over 500 billion dollars, a national income of 2 trillion dollars, a country where people live in peace and happiness, at peace with their history and values.
We will complete the work we have started with your support and blessings.
After the apprenticeship and journeyman period, with the June 12 elections, we will bring much greater joy to Turkey in the master period.
We have always walked together with our nation on this blessed path.
Once again, 74 million of us, one and together, are excited to prepare for the journey of service.
I wish that the June 12 elections will be auspicious for our country, our nation and our democracy.
R. Tayyip ERDOĞAN
AK Party Chairman
Advanced Democracy
JUNE 12 GENERAL ELECTIONS
Election
Declaration
Advanced Democracy Democratization Strong Political Institution Strong Civil Society New Constitution Reassuring Justice System A Free and Secure Social Life Citizen and Result-Oriented Governance
The AK Party has brought politics to its real ground and put people at the center of this ground.
In our understanding, the main purpose of politics is human happiness, peace and welfare.
Because we believe that the principle that constitutes the soul of our civilization is "Let the people live so that the state lives".
The AK Party relies on the wisdom, experience and prudence of our nation.
It conducts politics on the basis of the will of the nation.
The AK Party always favors freedom and justice, and
prioritizes the will of the nation above all else.
In this democratic vision, the state is not seen as the master of the nation, but as a tool to serve it.
Our understanding of pluralist and libertarian democracy requires the construction of grounds where individuals and different segments of society can freely express themselves in all aspects.
In modern democracies, it is imperative that the relationship between political participation and representation and governance is unshakeable and that everyone respects and accepts it.
Democracy is a political regime in which security is used as a tool for human freedom.
The AK Party absolutely rejects an understanding that sacrifices freedom for security.
The AK Party has created democratic conditions in which individuals and different segments of society express themselves freely, seek their rights and are provided with all opportunities for dialogue with others.
Our goal is to further develop this environment and pass it on to future generations.
Pluralist and participatory democracy means that all citizens benefit equally and fairly from the opportunities and resources of the state
and that everyone's lifestyle, culture and beliefs are respected and allowed to express themselves.
For this reason, there is no place in AK Party politics for a tyrannical political approach that fears its own people, sees every difference as enmity and does not listen to the voice of the nation.
Based on this democratic vision, the AK Party believes that the primary duty of the state is to make the individual happier, freer and more peaceful.
Therefore, the AK Party's service-oriented politics aims to find solutions to the problems that people and society face.
The AK Party's pluralist and libertarian understanding of democracy is based on the vision of a democratic constitution that guarantees the rights of every individual and all citizens.
With this understanding, the AK Party sees the constitution as a social contract to protect people against injustice and injustice.
Civil society is a sine qua non of our understanding of democracy.
In modern, pluralist and participatory democracies, civil society is first and foremost a space of difference and diversity.
The AK Party advocates that all differences in society organize themselves in line with their own views and demands and seek political, social and cultural rights.
We attach importance to diversity and cultural diversity rather than uniformity.
In line with the contemporary governance approach, the AK Party considers the active participation of civil society in decision-making processes as essential.
According to the AK Party, strengthening local governments is an indispensable element of democracy.
In this context, throughout our government, we have attached great importance to transferring more authority from the center to local governments.
Our goal for the 100th anniversary of our Republic is for local governments to assume more active and constructive roles in implementing citizen-oriented public policies and raising service standards.
In short, the AK Party is aware that it is the most important grassroots democratizing political force in Turkey.
In the new period of government, it will continue this mission by pioneering the making of a civil and libertarian constitution.
This constitution, to be drafted with the participation of all social segments, is indispensable for the smooth functioning of democratization in Turkey.
Only a Turkey that is fully democratized, where all institutions retreat to their own spheres of authority and where the will of the nation is completely sovereign will have reached the level of contemporary civilization.
Democratization
The years of the AK Party are the years of change for Turkey in terms of democratization as in all other areas.
As we stated in our 2002 election manifesto, we implemented policies that "seek change within continuity, protect differences within unity, rely on the dynamism of society, and aim to make a political understanding that is open to developments and innovations in the world".
This period was the "years of normalization of Turkish democracy".
Turkey's transition from extraordinary times to ordinary times, normal democracy and the rule of law accelerated under the AK Party.
This normalization process after the years of tutelage is a period of great change.
The AK Party wants this normalization process to be completed and democracy to be established with all its institutions and rules,
He aspires for a third term in power to ensure a full transition from incomplete democracy to advanced democracy.
One of the raison d'être of the AK Party is to close Turkey's democracy deficit.
Since its first day, the AK Party governments have carried out a series of reforms to bring our people to the democratic standard of living they deserve.
He has taken very important steps to make Turkey a freer, safer and more prosperous country.
He has changed the face of our country and our people, and as in every field, he has realized radical changes in the field of democratization, which we can call a "silent revolution".
It is useful to give a few examples to understand and explain where we have come from.
Some of the democratization steps taken by our governments in the last eight years are as follows: The state of emergency was lifted as the first step in the normalization process.
As soon as the AK Party came to power, it initiated the process of normalization and democratization
, and the first thing it did was to abolish the state of emergency, which had turned into a legal regime that had become almost normal.
This step, which was taken on November 30, 2002, just twelve days after the formation of our first government as an indicator of respect for human rights and democratization, is a turning point for our democracy.
Amendments have been made to our procedural laws in order to recognize the decisions rendered as a result of individual applications to the European Court of Human Rights as grounds for "renewal of the proceedings".
The revised European Social Charter was ratified.
In order to strengthen civil society and ensure freedom of association for the realization of a democratic administration, the Law No. 5253 on Associations was put into force
and thus, restrictions on the right to establish associations were removed and freedom of association in line with the European Convention on Human Rights was ensured.
Necessary amendments were made to the Law No. 2911 on Meetings and Demonstrations in order to put the exercise of the right to organize meetings and demonstrations on a more democratic basis.
Law No. 4982 on the Right to Information was enacted as a requirement of open, transparent and accountable governance.
torture and ill-treatment were fought against,
the principle of "zero tolerance to torture" of our government was rigorously implemented
and all legal regulations on this issue were put into practice.
Necessary legal arrangements have been made to punish those who engage in this practice and to ensure that the state compensates for the resulting rights grievances.
The United Nations International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights have been ratified.
The State Security Courts, which were reminiscent of extraordinary periods and were a constant subject of debate in terms of judicial independence, were removed from our legal system in 2004.
The structure and functions of the National Security Council and the Secretariat General of the National Security Council were reorganized and brought up to the standards of contemporary democracies.
Legislative provisions providing for the trial of civilians before military courts were amended.
The 2004 constitutional amendment made international conventions on fundamental rights and freedoms supreme over domestic law. The
2007 referendum took a fundamental step by enabling the direct election of the President by the people.
Regulations were introduced to expand freedom of expression.
The new Press Law, which brings press freedom up to modern standards, was put into force in 2004.
Language bans have been lifted.
Private courses and publications in languages and dialects other than Turkish are allowed.
TRT Şeş and TRT Arabic, which broadcast continuously in Kurdish, are a turning point in this sense.
Similarly, the ban on visits in languages other than Turkish was lifted in prisons.
On the other hand, we have expanded the space for democratic politics by lifting language bans, and by
amending the relevant provision of the Political Parties Law, we have enabled our parties to make propaganda in languages other than Turkish.
The Law on Foundations was revised to strengthen civil society and expand the scope of fundamental rights and freedoms.
The Law on the Commission for Equal Opportunities for Women and Men was enacted.
In 2010, a comprehensive judicial reform was realized with the constitutional amendment, characterized as a democracy package, adopted in the referendum.
The right of individuals to apply to the Ombudsman has been introduced, thereby ensuring the supervision of the functioning of the administration.
The judicial remedy against the decisions of the Supreme Military Council was opened and it
was constitutionally guaranteed that civilians cannot be tried by military courts.
The structure of the Constitutional Court was renewed, its
democratic legitimacy was strengthened
and the right of individual application was introduced for our citizens.
The High Council of Judges and Prosecutors was given democratic legitimacy and the representation of judges and prosecutors was ensured.
The September 12 coup perpetrators have been prosecuted.
In order to ensure equality between men and women, the State is allowed to take certain measures to ensure positive discrimination for children, the elderly, the disabled, widows and orphans of martyrs, invalids and veterans.
The right to request the protection of personal data is constitutionally guaranteed.
Restrictions on citizens' travel abroad have been narrowed and made subject to
a judicial decision.
Children's rights have been constitutionalized.
Restrictions on trade union rights and the right to strike were lifted.
Civil servants and other public officials were granted the right to collective bargaining.
The Law on the Court of Accounts was enacted, which envisages a full audit of public expenditures and assets and thus aims to strengthen accountability and transparency, which are the most fundamental conditions of democracy.
In 2007 and 2010, two referendums were held, giving the people the opportunity to have the final say on constitutional issues concerning their future.
In order to put these constitutional and legal arrangements for strengthening democracy and expanding fundamental rights and freedoms into practice, a large number of secondary arrangements were made
and a transformation of mentality was realized to ensure that these arrangements did not remain on paper.
Our efforts in this direction will continue in our new term in power and our democracy will reach the highest level with all its institutions and rules.
The EU accession process plays a supportive role in the realization of reforms.
The arrangements required by the EU accession process will continue to shape democratic reforms in the future.
National Unity and Brotherhood Project: While taking important democratization steps, we also launched the "National Unity and Brotherhood Project".
We aimed to solve all our social problems, which have accumulated over the years and have become chronic and negatively affected our unity, through democratic methods.
In fact, since the day it was founded, the AK Party has courageously confronted Turkey's deep-rooted problems, which were constantly postponed and became more and more complicated the longer they were postponed, and
brought permanent solutions to these problems.
In this context, the Democratic Initiative expresses the will to solve our social problems caused by the victimization of different groups within the framework of national unity and brotherhood.
These problems are the shackles on Turkey's feet as it transforms into a regional and global political actor.
While establishing order in its region, while taking part in decision-making mechanisms that will be influential in the future of the global system, while aiming to be one of the top 10 largest economies in 2023, Turkey must solve all its problems, especially terrorism, on its territory.
With the AK Party government, our country has moved away from the approach that saw Turkey's diversity as a threat instead of a source of richness for years; and we have reached a climate that allows us to realize all our richness.
The problems faced by different ethnic identities and faith groups have been courageously addressed in this project.
It has been transformed into a project of brotherhood in the crucible of unity and integrity.
Along with the Kurdish problem, which is the most crucial of these problems, the grievances of Alevi, non-Muslim and Roma citizens have been addressed.
First and foremost, the Kurdish issue was addressed.
Essentially, the reason for the mistakes made and the policies of non-solution is that for years the problem has been perceived only within the security paradigm as a "terror and security issue".
This has led previous political governments to entrust the solution to the problem almost entirely to the security bureaucracy.
As such, security measures were the only solution to the problem.
As AK Party governments, we have seen that this politics is simplistic, that it makes the problem more intractable rather than solving it, and we have abandoned it.
We could have done as we did before, we could have used hamas and rhetoric, and we could have left the solution to the problem solely to our security forces.
This policy could have been less risky.
But we did not and could not do this, being aware of our responsibility before history and the nation.
It is not possible to understand and solve multidimensional problems such as terrorism through a single discourse.
Therefore, there is a need for a comprehensive solution perspective that takes into account all the dynamics of the problem.
From the beginning, the AK Party has been taking steps to ensure that this multidimensional and comprehensive perspective is realized.
In the democratic opening process, a comprehensive program was put into practice that takes into account all aspects of the issue and does not neglect factors such as democratization, security measures, economic development and foreign policy.
From this point of view, we have seen that the solution to the problem lies in the political and cultural sphere where the problem originated.
As a responsible government that is accountable to the people, we have developed a policy that grasps the problem in all its dimensions and tries to solve it.
This great project, which we call the National Unity and Brotherhood Project, and the Democratic Opening we have initiated within this scope, is a multi-faceted solution policy developed in the face of this multi-faceted problem we have been experiencing for years.
As we have repeatedly emphasized, the Democratic Initiative has two interrelated objectives.
The first is to end terrorism and violence, and
the second is to raise our democratic standards by expanding the space for freedom.
The realization of these two goals is a prerequisite for a Turkey where everyone lives as freer, more equal and more prosperous individuals.
From the moment we started the process of democratic opening, we have stated that the creation of a healthy environment of conversation and dialogue is very important and even a prerequisite for solving our problems.
To this end, we held talks with all segments of society to find a solution to the problem.
We openly discussed the issue with political parties, civil society organizations, intellectuals, artists, journalists and writers.
For perhaps the first time in a long time, there is hope and expectation in society that this burning issue can be resolved through mutual understanding and dialogue.
The policy that "the word" must be given a chance has frightened everyone and every segment of society that owes its existence to arms and violence.
At this point, it is an important achievement that all social segments have realized that terrorism and violence will get us nowhere.
Turkey, which until yesterday could not even name the problem and was afraid to talk about it, has now reached an environment where even the most contrary views can be freely expressed.
As a result of our work, even the most burning issues can be discussed with great maturity and sensitivity, which is a very important gain for our democracy.
As experience all over the world shows, terrorism is the enemy of democracy and freedom.
Where violence prevails, words have no value.
As the AK Party, we have defended and continue to defend a democratic environment where, instead of terror and violence, everyone can talk about everything, express their views without insulting each other and without trying to eliminate each other's existence, and organize for this within legal limits.
Our preference in the fight against terrorism is to solve the problem through democratic-humanitarian methods.
We will continue on our way without suspending democracy, without resorting to extraordinary models of governance and in a way to complete normalization.
But let us not forget that we are facing a major problem that has been exacerbated over many years.
It is therefore unrealistic to expect a solution in one fell swoop.
You need patience, perseverance, determination and courage.
We need to think big and take big steps, to run, not walk, to make up for lost time.
The solution to the problem of terrorism in Turkey depends on a strong political will at the highest level,
comprehensive and detailed studies and systematic follow-up of what has been done.
This is the basis for understanding and analyzing problems well.
On the basis of these comprehensive analyses, we have launched a radical solution project.
Its essence is more democratization, more
human rights and an approach in which our citizens live freely and peacefully.
A philosophy that instead of seeing social differences as a source of fear and anxiety, sees them as our real richness.
A state compassion that embraces all our citizens with love...
An understanding of civilization that accepts and compensates for the mistakes made in the past on behalf of the state through self-criticism, a civilization that says "let people live so that the state can live".
The National Unity and Brotherhood Project is better understood by our citizens today.
Again today, all major social problems have been relieved.
We believe that on this ground of thinking, talking, understanding and acceptance, we will reach a social structure that better understands and loves each other, a great brotherhood.
Only the AK Party, which is in power alone, has won the trust of the nation, has achieved nation-state fusion and is the party of Turkey, can take radical steps to solve the problem in the short, medium and long term.
The AK Party is determined to solve all social problems by making the spirit of national unity and brotherhood dominant in its third term in power, which it sees as a period of mastery.
In fact, there is no alternative to the AK Party on this issue.
Those who in one way or another cause the problem, those who are part of the problem and those who feed on the problem cannot solve it.
As AK Party, this is what we have been saying from the beginning: The goal of our National Unity and Fraternity project is to ensure that everyone, no matter where they live in Turkey, feels that they are equal and free citizens of this state.
We are the children of a nation that shares the same history, pain and joy.
Therefore, there is no historical, sociological and cultural basis for separatism in these lands.
Our solution policy is centered on "human beings".
The Democratic Initiative is the name of a policy that focuses on living, not killing.
Therefore, the democratization steps we are taking are not directed at one region of the country or one segment of the society, but at all of them.
Our motto is more democracy for all,
more rights and more freedom.
That is why we say, "We are Turkey together."
However, we do not see this as enough.
On the evening of 12 September 2010, as our Prime Minister clearly stated, the result of the referendum constitutes a beginning for a new democratic and civilian constitution.
The AK Party will crown the democratization goal expressed in its founding program with a new civilian constitution
and ensure that Turkey attains advanced democracy.
As AK Party, we want the new constitution to be drafted with the widest possible participation and to
be a "social contract" that reflects the demands of all social segments.
Our nation has the maturity and experience to do so.
Strong Political Institution
The AK Party sees the institution of politics as the only and most effective means of solving national and social problems and ensuring development and service.
Our party and our government, which was founded at a time when trust in the political institution was declining, have made significant progress in strengthening the political institution in our country and in restoring trust in politics and politicians.
The AK Party has taken politics together with honesty and merit and
placed politics on a moral line.
The AK Party has made the financing of politics transparent.
He himself is the best example of this;
he has consistently explained his income and expenditure down to the penny.
Thanks to this, the political institution has regained its dignity in our country today and has
become the addressee of all the demands of our citizens.
Attempts to undermine trust in the political institution and to create undemocratic expectations and goals were largely thwarted.
Understandings that narrowed and sometimes ignored the boundaries of the political institution by going beyond its own institutional boundaries were brought to their limits and the political institution was restored to its normal boundaries.
The sine qua non of democracies is civil politics and political parties.
During the constitutional debate, issues such as the Law on Political Parties and party financing will naturally be discussed.
Politics is a supreme value.
We did and do politics with our nation and with the support of our nation.
We are based on the will and guidance of our nation.
We trust our people and put their trust before everything else.
We know the importance of trust in politics and we will never shake this trust.
We have never been deceived or deceiving, we have
always adopted honest and principled politics.
We have always fulfilled our promises to our people,
We did not make promises we could not fulfill.
The reason why our people liquidated the political parties before us is because they did not reflect the demand and will of our people.
The AK Party brought together the social center and the political center, the nation and the state, and ensured social peace.
Strong Civil Society
An organized society is one in which civil society organizations can be easily established and function.
In a modern society, it is only through these organizations that citizens can seek their rights in various fields and express their reactions.
As the AK Party, we have removed all obstacles to organizing with this belief and thought.
The Law on Associations was completely amended with this philosophy,
making it easier to establish associations and
bringing them up to international standards.
It has also become possible for children to establish meaning.
The legislation on foundations has also been amended accordingly.
The work of NGOs has been facilitated,
supported and encouraged.
As a government, we have attached importance to receiving the views of relevant NGOs on the fundamental problems of our country.
The Economic and Social Council was transformed into a constitutional body by constitutional amendment.
Under the AK Party governments, fundamental changes and improvements in freedom of association have been achieved through a series of regulations such as the New Turkish Civil Code, the Law on Associations and the recent Constitutional amendment package.
In this context, the bans preventing our NGOs from opening up to the world should be lifted and NGOs should enter international organizations,
international activities have been facilitated.
In the new Turkey, not only a few NGOs in big cities, but even small associations in the remotest corners of the country can develop strong international relations
and organize joint activities with NGOs in other countries.
Moreover, like all democratic countries, CSOs in Turkey seek to fulfill the function of monitoring their own governments.
If Turkey wants to strengthen and deepen its democracy, it needs to increase the channels for public administration and CSOs to work together.
The AK Party has maintained this vision since the day it was founded.
Parliamentary democracy has been replaced by participatory democracy.
Turkey has taken a stand in favor of participatory democracy during our period in power.
With the new Law on Associations enacted under the AK Party government, the Department of Associations was established within the Ministry of Interior and provincial associations directorates were established in the provinces.
The transfer of the task of carrying out procedures related to associations from the police to civilian public officials is an important step in removing obstacles to civil society.
This practice ended the perception of associations as a security problem.
Here is what we will do in the new period: 'The AK Party government, which has facilitated the work of CSOs with the new Turkish Civil Code, the Law on Associations and the Law on Foundations, and which has tied the freedom of association to strong guarantees, will continue to strengthen this approach in the coming period.
New progress will be made in implementation and mindset transformation.
To this end, relevant legislation and practices will be revisited with an understanding that aims to guarantee and expand the freedom of association by taking the suggestions of CSOs and ensuring their effective participation.
The AK Party sees democracy as a process that needs to be continuously developed with the broad participation of the people.
In this context, the pluralist and participatory democratic political process will continue to be opened to civil society organizations and the opinions and suggestions of the relevant segments of society will continue to be taken on the issues to be decided.
With the more active participation of civil society organizations in governance, the development of representative democracy towards participatory democracy will be ensured.
In this way, citizens will have the opportunity to reflect their will on the political process not only from election to election, but also for current developments.
A harmonization law will be enacted and the effective functioning of the Economic and Social Council, which is the most advanced step in ensuring the participation of civil society organizations in the social and economic policies of the government and which has been secured by the recent constitutional amendment, will be ensured.
New Constitution
AK Party is the representative of a political understanding that is based on the human being and his/her freedoms and sees the state and its institutions as a means of serving the human being.
For this reason, since the day it was founded, the AK Party has stated that Turkey has a constitutional problem and that the solution to this problem lies in the preparation of a new pluralist and libertarian constitution.
Constitutional amendments during the AK Party's first and second governments expanded the space for individual rights and democratic politics, while
constitutional amendments in 2004, 2007 and 2010 laid the groundwork for the new constitution.
According to the AK Party, the new Constitution should "protect the rights of individuals in the most effective way" and guarantee fundamental rights and freedoms in line with the principles and standards of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the European Convention on Human Rights.
In fact, Turkey's progress in all areas and the rising social demand for a new Constitution have made a new Constitution unpostponable.
However, the constitutional order has lagged behind these developments.
It is clear that society does not deserve this constitution, which was imposed on it nearly 30 years ago as a product of a coup d'état.
Turkey needs a new constitution in line with its new position.
The September 12 military intervention deepened the democracy deficit and the completion of the normalization process depends on the preparation of a new, civilian and democratic constitution.
The crowning of the democratization process, which is one of the raison d'être of the AK Party, will be possible with the preparation of a new constitution.
Therefore, the third term of government will be the term of a new constitution.
The AK Party is determined to complete the new constitutional process that it has been aiming for since its foundation and that it has matured in its first two terms.
Of course, our nation will decide what the new constitution will look like.
Reflecting the understanding of contemporary democracy that we, as the AK Party, have been defending until now,
prepared by the broadest possible consensus and democratic method,
We aim for a constitution that will be embraced by all segments of society.
This constitution is inclusive, not exclusive,
not marginalizing but embracing,
integrative, not divisive,
liberating, not repressive,
advocating unity in diversity, not uniformity,
It will be a pluralist and libertarian constitution.
A new constitution that is based on the freedom and protection of the individual, that includes institutional safeguards to ensure the independence and impartiality of the judiciary, and that at the same time removes uncertainties in the functioning of the political system is essential for democracy in Turkey,
human rights
and will be an important stage in the entrenchment of the rule of law.
The new constitution will be prepared in a democratic and participatory manner.
The method as well as the content of the new constitution must be democratic.
All segments of society need to participate in the debate and in the process of building the new constitution.
Without resorting to violence and terror, all views can be freely expressed and organized in this process.
Ensuring and protecting plurality and pluralism is essential here.
Even the most dissenting voices will find a place in the public sphere.
In this context, the indispensable elements of the new constitution-making process can be listed as follows: Debate: The new constitution should be openly debated in public in all its dimensions, from the method of drafting to the principles and rules it should contain.
Participation: Since constitutions are social contracts, all segments of society should contribute to the drafting of this fundamental document.
This participation can range from discussing the issue in print and broadcast media to voting in the referendum.
Consensus: Unlike law-making, constitution-making requires a certain degree of consensus among political parties and all social segments, both inside and outside parliament.
If a broad and comprehensive consensus for constitutional reform is not possible, constitutional amendments should be carried out with a sufficient consensus.
All political actors representing society should participate in the constitution-making process and those who come to the negotiating table should negotiate and mature constitutional reform.
Referendum: The new constitution, drafted with the participation of political and social actors, must be put to a referendum in a free environment.
As AK Party, we believe that drafting the new constitution with the widest possible participation and in a free environment is crucial for democratic legitimacy and social ownership.
Every necessary step will be taken to ensure this.
The new Constitution will be drafted by the Grand National Assembly of Turkey.
The Turkish Grand National Assembly has the power to draft a new constitution.
Article 175 of the Constitution clearly states how the Constitution can be amended.
The body that will change it is the Parliament.
The body that can change the Constitution can also make a new constitution.
Therefore, there are no legal or political obstacles to a new constitution being drafted by Parliament.
The Assembly has more than enough will and ability.
The Turkish Grand National Assembly, which established the Republic, has shown that even under the most difficult circumstances, it can produce a highly democratic constitution, such as the 1924 Constitution.
Therefore, in the coming general elections, our nation will elect the parliament that will draft the new constitution.
The most important task of the new parliament will be to make a democratic constitution with the authority it receives from the nation.
The new Constitution should be sufficiently short, concise and clear,
The new constitution should not include detailed regulations.
The Constitution should be as concise, clear and coherent as possible, provided that it contains the necessary safeguards for individual freedoms.
It should have a structure that reflects the basic principles but is not drowned in detail.
On the other hand, this fundamental legal document should be read and understood not only by constitutional experts but also by all members of society.
The new Constitution will be a human-oriented, libertarian constitution.
A new constitution based on the individual and his/her rights,
that sees the state not as a sacred entity but as a tool to serve the individual and society,
that recognizes social diversity as an asset, not a threat,
emphasizing pluralism, not monophony
and will contain all the elements of a democratic rule of law.
In short, the new constitution is a democratic, pluralist, democratic, pluralist constitution that embraces the basic political values and principles accepted by contemporary democratic countries.
and libertarian constitution.
We believe that the section of the new Constitution on fundamental rights and freedoms should reflect an understanding that considers the protection of freedoms as the principle and the limitation of freedoms as the exception.
Furthermore, the fundamental rights section should be based on international human rights instruments to which Turkey is a party, such as the United Nations Declaration of Human Rights and the European Convention on Human Rights.
In this context, many rights and freedoms under fundamental rights, from freedom of religion to the right to education, from the right to life to the freedom of political parties, should be reorganized in the light of contemporary trends and practices in these areas.
In the new constitution, the relations between the legislative, executive and judicial branches, which are authorized to exercise sovereignty, should be redefined on the basis of the principle of separation of powers.
The fact that sovereignty belongs unconditionally to the nation must be made the spirit of this constitution without any interpretation.
The 1921 constitution, which was drafted after the 1876 edict constitution, coincided with a period when Turkey was struggling for independence.
The constitution to be prepared after the 2011 elections will be prepared as Turkey's fight for its future.
Reassuring Justice System
Our goal is to reach a justice system that everyone has confidence in by 2015.
Justice is the foundation of legitimacy and legitimacy is the basis of governance.
Justice services have been neglected for years in a manner unworthy of our nation with a deep-rooted state tradition, and our people's trust in the justice system has declined.
Most of the problems related to the justice system were either eliminated or significantly reduced during the AK Party period.
Significant breakthroughs have been made in the field of justice services in recent years.
In this context, significant progress has been achieved in many areas, from the realization of democratic legitimacy, which is the only way to strengthen the independence and impartiality of the judiciary, to the renewal of legislation, from the development of physical and technical infrastructure to the modernization of penal institutions, from increasing human resources capacity to the restructuring of the justice organization.
In this process, with the Judicial Reform Strategy prepared by our governments and the implementation of this Plan, the judiciary has become more participatory,
made it a more transparent and accountable institution
and has set "a justice system that inspires confidence" as its vision.
As of 2002, the General Landscape of the Justice System
The workload of the courts had increased excessively and trials could not be completed within a reasonable time.
The number of judges, public prosecutors and justice personnel was insufficient.
There was a High Council of Judges and Prosecutors that was not based on democratic legitimacy, where judges and prosecutors were not represented, far from European standards and where the caste system was effective.
The general state of the courthouses was dire. Justice services were provided on the ground floors of government mansions, in rented apartments or business houses;
The work was carried out with extremely limited technical equipment.
The share of the general budget allocated to justice services was insufficient.
Prisons were constantly on the national and international agenda with riots and allegations of ill-treatment.
Laws from the last century were in place that did not meet today's needs.
What we have done in the field of judicial reform
During the period of the AK Party governments, the problems of our judicial system were subjected to a meticulous and detailed study and prioritized in order of importance and priority, and were linked to the Strategic Plan of the Ministry of Justice and the Judicial Reform Strategy, the first planned study in the history of the Republic, in which short, medium and long term solutions were shown.
These documents aim to solve the problems of the judiciary with a reformist approach in a holistic, participatory and systematic manner.
Physical and Technical Infrastructure
We built modern justice palaces.
During the AK Party rule, 5 times more justice service buildings were built than in the history of the Republic.
In this sense, 130 Palaces of Justice have been completed and 99 service buildings are still under construction and project phase.
The world's largest justice palaces were built on the Anatolian and European sides of Istanbul.
We put information technology at the service of the judiciary.
Courthouses working with typewriters were equipped with computers.
The number of computers used in 2002 was increased by 859% as of 2011.
With the National Judicial Network Project (UYAP), all courthouses and many related institutions (such as civil registry, land registry, police and electoral boards) are connected through electronic networks.
It is now possible for lawyers and citizens to file lawsuits online.
We have improved the financial means of the judiciary. The budget allocated to justice services has been nearly doubled compared to the pre-2002 period.
The physical and technological infrastructure of the judicial organization, which cannot even find paper to use in its work and continues its activities under unfavorable working conditions, has been strengthened and working opportunities and conditions have been improved.
We strengthened the physical infrastructure of the high courts.
A modern service building suitable for the location of the Constitutional Court was constructed.
Construction of the service building of the Council of State will be completed in 2011.
Necessary support was provided to meet the service building needs of the Court of Cassation and a new additional building was allocated with the increase in its capacity.
Structural Changes and Legislation
We raised the standards of democracy and
strengthened the rule of law.
Promotion of democracy in the legislative amendments realized during this period
and strengthening the rule of law as a fundamental principle.
Since 2002, legislative amendments have aimed to expand human rights and freedoms in line with universal law.
The statist mentality of the last century was abandoned and a people-oriented approach was adopted. The
principle of zero tolerance towards torture was implemented
and positive results were achieved.
Guarantees on fundamental rights and freedoms have been increased.
We have made important constitutional amendments.
During the period of our governments, the Constitution was amended 10 times
and a total of 54 articles of the Constitution were renewed in the direction of democratization.
With the constitutional reforms, important steps were taken in the European Union process, the
understanding of the state based on human rights, democracy and the rule of law was strengthened, and
a people-oriented governance approach was established.
We renewed the basic laws of the Turkish Legal System.
All of the basic criminal and legal laws from the last century, which were outdated, out of date, disconnected from universal principles and far from meeting the demands of society, were renewed.
In this context, the Turkish Penal Code, Code of Criminal Procedure, Code of Execution, Turkish Commercial Code, Code of Civil Procedure and Turkish Code of Obligations were amended.
Human Resources
We increased human resources capacity in the judiciary.
In order to ensure faster and more effective trials, the number of judges and prosecutors was increased by 26% compared to 2002, despite all obstacles.
The number of auxiliary personnel of the justice organization was increased by 75%.
Judges and prosecutors were provided with foreign language education in Turkey and abroad and were enabled to follow developments in the world.
Experts (such as psychologists, pedagogues and social workers) were employed in penal execution institutions, family courts and juvenile courts.
Penal Execution System
We removed prison problems from the national agenda.
Prison problems, which were known by all segments of society in the past, have been removed from the national agenda.
By establishing modern and high security penal execution institutions, physical infrastructure was improved and human resources capacity was strengthened.
Along with 189 prisons that did not meet international standards, Bayrampaşa and Ulucanlar prisons were also closed.
Execution legislation was renewed
and our execution system was harmonized with international standards, and a probation organization was established.
Streamlining the Judiciary
We enacted the bill on speeding up the judiciary.
This Law has reduced the workload of the courts by approximately 20%.
Some acts have been decriminalized and administrative fines have been imposed, and
it has been ensured that inheritance decree and some other transactions can be performed by notaries public.
We have taken important steps to put the Courts of Appeal into operation.
The legislative infrastructure and other works of the courts of appeal, which will increase legal security in the judiciary with two-tier trials, were completed during our government period.
The chief public prosecutors of the courts of appeal are appointed by the HSYK.
Personnel needs were met,
service buildings were constructed
and the software to be used within the scope of UYAP was completed.
These courts will be operationalized in 2011.
We increased the capacities of the high courts.
Considering the workload of the Court of Cassation and Council of State, new chambers were established and their capacity was strengthened by increasing the number of members.
International Reflections of Our Work
The Judicial Reform Strategy and the activities we have carried out in line with it have been positively evaluated in the reports and statements of international institutions such as the Council of Europe, the European Union and the Venice Commission in terms of improving the independence and impartiality of the judiciary and strengthening our democracy.
What We Will Do to Achieve a Confident Justice System
Prosecutions will be accelerated.
For years, the most important issue that has been mentioned when discussing the problems of the judiciary is the long duration of trials and the consequent loss of confidence in justice.
In order to solve this problem, the following steps are envisaged to be taken in addition to the efforts mentioned above.
Courts of Appeal will be put into operation.
With the launch of these courts, the number of cases before the Court of Cassation will significantly decrease, the quality of proceedings will improve and the speed of proceedings will increase.
Alternative dispute resolution mechanisms will be developed.
Through extrajudicial dispute resolution, a large number of disputes can be resolved without coming to court,
the workload of the courts is reduced,
individuals can solve their problems in a short time and easily, and thus social peace can be better preserved.
Important studies have been carried out and are envisaged to be carried out in this field in our country.
In this context, the law on the settlement of civil disputes through mediators is on the agenda of the Parliament and will be enacted in the new legislative period.
Commercial disputes will be resolved through arbitrators without coming to courts.
Pre-judicial dispute resolution procedures will be improved in administrative judiciary.
Reconciliation in criminal proceedings will be implemented more effectively.
The number of judges, prosecutors and auxiliary personnel will be increased.
Since 2002, the number of judges and prosecutors has been increased by 26% despite all obstacles.
Necessary plans have been made for the coming years and the number of judges and prosecutors will be increased to the standards of European countries as soon as possible.
Currently, the number of judges and prosecutors in Turkey is 9 for every 100,000 people.
The aim is to increase this figure to an average of 20 judges and prosecutors.
The number of personnel has been increased by 75% and needs planning has been made.
The capacity of the Forensic Medicine Institution will be increased.
To date, the physical infrastructure facilities of the Agency have been increased, human resources have been strengthened, international validity of its laboratories has been ensured and credibility has been gained.
Continuing technological investments for the coming period,
Dissemination of the institution throughout the country
and services are aimed to be accelerated.
The Ombudsman Institution (Ombudsman) will be established. The
Constitution recognizes the establishment of the Ombudsman Institution to oversee the functioning of the administration.
The Draft Law on the organization of the Agency is on the agenda of the General Assembly of the Turkish Grand National Assembly.
With the launch of this Institution, it will be ensured that the administration operates in accordance with the law and provides people-oriented services.
A new remedy is introduced for citizens to resolve administrative disputes.
Our citizens' access to justice will become even easier.
Judicial procedures will be simplified and
citizens will be informed about legal processes.
With the establishment of front offices and information desks in courthouses, citizens will benefit from judicial services faster.
It will be facilitated for our citizens with weak financial conditions to receive legal aid in civil cases.
Protective legal practices will be developed.
Awareness of rights and law will be developed in society through protective law practices, and the
culture of reconciliation and negotiation will be promoted.
Awareness of the law will be given to students from primary school age
and young people will be enabled to participate more consciously in social life.
With the curriculum developed within the scope of protective law, individuals who are aware of their rights and responsibilities will be the true owners of the law as effective citizens.
Media and public relations of the judiciary will be strengthened.
Press spokespersons will be established in the judiciary and the public will be transparently informed.
Press and public relations offices will be established in major courthouses where the media can receive information and work.
Information activities will be organized for members of the judiciary on the functioning of the media and for members of the media on judicial units, working procedures and judicial independence.
Public opinion surveys on trust in the judiciary will be conducted at various intervals.
Advocacy services will be activated.
As is well known, the right to defense is one of the most important human rights.
The institution of the lawyer is a sine qua non of this right.
Cooperation will be established with the Union of Turkish Bar Associations and bar associations to solve the problems of the legal profession and to ensure more effective participation of lawyers in judicial activities.
Legal advisors and lawyers working in the public sector will be made more effective.
Efforts will be made to improve professional cooperation between members of the judiciary, lawyers and academics.
Judicial procedures of our citizens living abroad will be facilitated.
Liaison judges and judicial advisors will be appointed to facilitate the judicial procedures of our citizens living abroad.
Legal assistance agreements will be signed with all countries where our citizens living abroad are located.
When all these reforms are completed: Thejudiciary will be no one's front or backyard, but the nation's
The law will function on behalf of the nation
Judges will decide on behalf of the nation The
nation will own everything.
With a reassuring justice system; "my case is time-barred", "our land case has been going on for 30 years", "my case was appealed 3 years ago, we are still waiting for the result", "my hearing was postponed for 6 months", "we have been waiting for the expert report for 5 months", "after 2 years, the court decided to dismiss the case","I inherited this case from my father", "I filed a lawsuit to cancel the single course exam in my senior year, I graduated with the next year's exam until the court's decision came out, I am still waiting for the decision", "I started working but the court canceled the entrance exam after 5 years", "my hearing was scheduled for 9.My hearing was scheduled for 9:00 a.m., it is now 16:00 and I am still waiting" will be eliminated.
Free and Safe Bis Social Life
The fundamental duty of the state is to ensure that citizens live freely in peace and security.
During the Ak Parti governments, a fundamental paradigm shift was made in security understanding and policies for the first time, and the
"security for freedom" approach was adopted as a fundamental policy.
During the period of our government, important reforms and studies have been carried out on issues related to security areas, based on the rule of law and human rights. After the
terrorist attacks in the USA in 2001, serious reductions in the areas of freedom in the name of security in the world were created and
regulations were made in this direction in many countries.
Contrary to all these, rapid and radical democratization steps were taken in our country by the AK Party governments that took office in 2002.
Immediately, practices that restricted freedoms such as the state of emergency were ended, and
despite the terrorist incidents and negative developments in the world, our country continued on its way by expanding its democratization area.
Even in the fight against terrorism, the most problematic area of security, multi-dimensional analysis and perspectives have been adopted instead of one-dimensional security approaches.
We recognize that security is a means to realize freedom and that security policies cannot be applied in a way that restricts individual freedoms on any grounds.
Security is on the one hand a prerequisite for the protection of freedoms in the sense of maintaining social order, and
on the other hand an individual right in itself in the sense of being free from all forms of oppression and unjust interference.
For all these reasons, efforts will be made to ensure security without violating fundamental rights and freedoms and without unduly restricting them.
What We Do in Security
The AK Party has prioritized education, health, security and justice as priority service areas.
It has allocated more shares from the budget to these service areas than ever before.
In this sense, for the first time, security services have been handled with a strategic approach that includes a holistic approach
and multifaceted security policies have been put into practice.
Security services have been redesigned with a mindset centered on the protection of freedom and social support, and a
people-oriented approach has been adopted in the provision of services.
Universal values such as civic participation, openness to scrutiny, transparency and accountability have constituted the basic dynamics of this mindset change.
The Community Supported Policing practice, which was initiated in order to ensure the participation and support of the community in security services and to realize citizen satisfaction at the highest level, and which has been gradually developed since 2007, was extended to 81 provinces in 2009.
Our basic policy in the fight against crime is to prevent crimes before they are committed.
For this purpose, social crime prevention projects have been developed at national and local level and the
desired results have been obtained.
Incidents of purse snatching, pickpocketing, fraud and theft, which occupy the agenda of the country, especially in our major cities, and have a significant negative impact on safe life, have been reduced from the agenda thanks to the effective, projected and planned practices developed.
In particular, effective anti-crime projects based on street dominance have been implemented, ensuring that the police are more accessible and provide more visible services.
Educational institutions and their surroundings have been made safer.
With the Safe School-Safe Education practice, approximately 16 million school-age young people were protected from crime and harmful habits and ensured that they continue their education in safe educational environments free from all kinds of fear and anxiety.
The fight against gangs has been one of the top priorities of our government.
Before I took office, many large and small gangs or mafia-type criminal organizations were a source of unrest in large parts of our society, especially among our tradesmen.
Using methods such as extortion, intimidation and fear, these illegal organizations made social life unbearable.
With the new policies we have developed in the fight against crime, an effective and decisive fight against all kinds of organized crime organizations and gangs has been carried out,
gangs have collapsed as a result of planned operations
and all gang members have been handed over to the judicial authorities.
Thus, the trust of our citizens in the state has been reinforced.
The fight against organized crime and gangs has been the hallmark of security services under our government.
Moreover, under our government, there were no unsolved murders
and efforts were made to shed light on the unsolved murders of the past.
Technical, logistical and administrative capacity in crime investigation has been improved and modern criminal laboratories with state-of-the-art technological facilities have been established.
Criminal investigations are no longer based solely on the testimony of individuals, but on evidence-based criminal investigations.
Thus, the ability of security forces to solve incidents has increased and crime clearance rates have risen.
The Urban Security Management System (MOBESE), which enables the detection of crimes committed by ensuring general public order and peace of mind, started to be installed in 2007 and is now actively used in 81 provincial centers and major districts.
During the period of our governments, the principle of providing faster, high quality, reliable and cost-effective services to our citizens by security units has been adopted.
Within the scope of the people-oriented and citizen satisfaction-based mentality change developed by the AK Party government, great importance has been attached to increasing the number and qualifications of human resources in the field of security in order to maximize street dominance and easy access to law enforcement.
In this framework, the number of police vocational colleges and police vocational training center directorates was increased,
the curriculum was completely renewed and made human and law-oriented, and
4-year university graduates were allowed to enter the police profession.
With the understanding that quality security service depends on a well-educated, caring, friendly, smiling, ethical and solution-producing workforce, great importance has been attached to training qualified personnel in security units.
As a result of these efforts, the proportion of police officers with college and university degrees has increased from 21% to 85%.
In addition, great importance was attached to the in-service training of existing staff
, and 50% of the staff was trained every year, ensuring that the change in mindset was internalized.
On the other hand, considering that the morale and motivation of the personnel should be high in order to ensure that services are carried out well, the career system of "Chief Police Officer" and "Senior Chief Police Officer" was put into practice, providing our police officers with the opportunity to rise in the profession.
For the same purpose, our government permanently solved the military service problem, which has been a long-standing problem of the Police Force for years and led to personnel shortages, by amending the military service law.
Inadequacies in basic needs such as vehicles, equipment, equipment, fuel, etc., which have a negative impact on the motivation and service delivery of our security units, have been addressed by maximizing the equipment of our security units with the budget support provided during the period of our governments, and service quality and efficiency have been increased.
Police centers and gendarmerie stations, which were once associated with torture and ill-treatment, have been transformed into centers where citizens can go without fear.
In this sense, all police centers and gendarmerie stations, which are the first point of application for citizens and the showcase of security units in terms of meeting the demands and expectations of all segments of society, have been reviewed, their physical conditions have been brought in line with human rights norms and international standards,
camera systems have been installed and environments where humanitarian needs can be met have been created.
Turkey is no longer a country where torture is talked about.
With the approach of "zero tolerance to torture", necessary legislative amendments were made, penalties were increased, and the conversion of the penalty into a fine and its postponement were abolished.
As part of the change of mindset in the field of security, the principles of law enforcement ethics applied by security units in European countries were adopted and put into practice for the security units and personnel of our country.
As a result of all this, according to data published by EUROSTAT, the statistical agency of the European Union, Turkey ranks among the safest countries in Europe in terms of the amount of crime per 100,000 inhabitants.
Our country has also become one of the few leading countries in Europe in terms of crime clearance rates.
For example, the illumination rate in crimes against the person has increased to 95%.
The transformation of mentality can be observed especially in the restructuring of relations between the public and the security services.
As a result of this people-oriented approach, a bridge of hearts has been established between our security units and our citizens.
Important practices have also been implemented to make the lives of our citizens easier.
In this context, passports at international standards, more secure, more cost-effective and longer-lasting passports have been issued to our citizens, and delivery to the address has been introduced instead of keeping them waiting in queues.
In addition, by introducing the possibility of realizing the sale transactions of second-hand vehicles at notaries in a short time and with less expense;
vehicle sales, transfer and registration transactions, which were previously completed within an average of 3 days, are now concluded in a short period of time that can be expressed in minutes with the practice we have initiated.
Another practice that made life easier for our citizens was the implementation of a regulation that allows the parties to reconcile with each other and keep a report in traffic accidents with material damage.
Since the implementation of the regulation on April 1, 2008, settlements have been reached in 80% of the traffic accidents with material damage.
Thus, on the one hand, traffic congestion was prevented, and on
the other hand, it contributed to the development of a culture of reconciliation among our citizens.
The point reached as a result of the successful security policies implemented by the AK Party government is also appreciated by our citizens.
For example, in the "Life Satisfaction Survey" conducted by TurkStat in 2009 and 2010, security services ranked first with 78% in the list of public services that citizens are most satisfied with.
What we will do in the field of security
Our vision for 2023, the 100th anniversary of the founding of our Republic, is that security services fully protect freedoms,
respect for human rights,
that upholds the rule of law,
to the code of ethics of law enforcement,
where citizen satisfaction has reached its peak,
using the most advanced technologies in the fight against crime and criminals,
knowledgeable, qualified, good ethics, professional, dignified, prioritizes helping citizens and has won their friendship,
To create a transparent, accountable, world-class security understanding and personnel.
Our goals in line with this vision: We will increase the number of security officers to one security officer for every 250 people, in line with European Union practices, in order to ensure continuous and permanent street dominance and increase the visibility of the police.
The number and qualifications of Police Vocational Schools and Police Training Center Directorates, which provide basic training to security personnel, will be further increased and in-service training of security personnel will be continued in line with developing and changing conditions.
Successful practices to prevent crime have been greatly appreciated by the public, and significant reductions in street crime have been achieved.
Efforts to prevent crimes before they occur will continue
and in this context, new social projects such as Community Supported Policing will be implemented across the country.
Thus, the bridge of hearts between our security forces and our citizens will be further strengthened.
We will continue to provide an accountable, disciplined and people-oriented quality security service that respects human rights, and we
will never compromise on the principle of "zero tolerance for torture and ill-treatment".
In order for the outstanding success achieved in security services to be sustained and permanent, it is important to conduct analysis and scientific research and to develop new security policies as a result of these researches.
Effective support of security services can
only be possible through strong and professionally structured research and development centers.
To this end, centers of excellence will be established in security units.
Emphasis will be given to the restructuring of security service buildings in a way that is more easily accessible by citizens, ergonomic and suitable for human structure.
Prototype applications will be continued especially for our Police Centers and Gendarmerie Police Stations, which are the first application and consultation units in providing services to the public, and
these applications will be made widespread.
Policies that embrace all segments of society, especially women, children, disabled and elderly citizens, will be implemented to facilitate their access to security services.
Security units will continue to be strengthened in terms of vehicles, tools and equipment
and all kinds of technological support will be provided.
Considering the fact that citizen satisfaction in security services will be ensured with well-motivated personnel, legal and administrative arrangements will be made to increase the morale and motivation of security personnel, particularly by rewarding them and improving their working conditions.
Thus, the capabilities of our security forces will be increased, their motivation will be increased
and they will work more efficiently.
By gathering the emergency call centers, which we have started to implement on a pilot basis, under a single roof, the "112 Emergency Call Project" will be expanded to ensure rapid response to incidents.
Citizen and Result-Oriented Management
The AK Party is based on an understanding of governance that solves problems based on the demands of the people, with the authority and power it receives from the people, rather than being closed inwards, looking down on the people and producing problems.
With the principle of "the state exists to serve the nation", we are bringing democratic governance practices to our country.
The main mission of public administration is to facilitate the lives of citizens and to
remove obstacles to the exercise of fundamental rights and freedoms.
With the understanding that "justice is the foundation of property", we are against arbitrariness, all forms of discrimination and injustice in administration.
We are based on transparency, accountability and participation at all levels.
Our main priority is to provide services effectively and with a smiling face at the closest point to our people.
In a world of intensifying competition, an effectively functioning public administration is a critical success factor in social and economic development and welfare growth.
In line with our goal of becoming one of the world's top 10 economies, we will continue to innovate in management.
As in every field, we attach great importance to the concept of trust in management.
We implement policies that strengthen our citizens' sense of belonging and increase their trust in institutions.
We also rely on trust between institutions.
Under democratic governance, each institution fulfills its primary duties and responsibilities
and we act in a framework where all the work done is audited on behalf of our nation.
Overcoming centralized and rigid hierarchical structures,
introducing ethical rules and supervision for public administrators,
reforming the central administration, increasing the powers and resources of local governments are among the issues that we have made major reforms.
We prioritized the effective and widespread use of information and communication technologies in public services.
We continuously review processes in service delivery and reduce red tape.
In this framework, we completely renewed the legislation in the field of local governments.
We enacted the Law on Municipalities, the Law on Metropolitan Municipalities, the Law on Special Provincial Administrations, the Law on Local Administration Unions, and the Law on Allocation of Shares from General Budget Tax Revenues to Special Provincial Administrations and Municipalities.
We increased the powers and resources of local governments.
With the opportunities we have provided to municipalities, the face of our cities has changed and continues to change.
Special provincial administrations were restructured, provincial general assemblies elected their own presidents,
resources and personnel were increased, and the
opportunity to produce effective services in line with local priorities was provided.
The most comprehensive rural development project of our Republican period was implemented with KÖYDES and BELDES applications.
In the 2005-2010 period alone, 6.75 billion TL of resources were allocated under the KÖYDES program, and basic needs such as drinking water and roads were met to a great extent all over the country.
With the Ethics Board, standards were developed
and ethical audits of public administrators were ensured.
A new, effective and accountable system for financial audit of all institutions has been introduced.
The Right to Information Law and similar innovations increased transparency in the public sector and
strengthened public oversight.
Citizen participation was ensured at all levels through democratic processes.
Practices such as the primitive census conducted every ten years were abolished, and the
"Address Based Population Registration System", which is based on continuous updating of our population, was established.
As a result of the sharing of the Central Population System MERNIS system by our institutions, our citizens no longer have to chase papers and formalities such as identity card samples and proof of residence.
As one of the practices that best expresses the change in public administration, we conduct and publish satisfaction surveys.
Since 2003, the Turkish Statistical Institute regularly conducts a "Life Satisfaction" survey every year and presents it to the public.
Another important area of change is the attitudes of public administrators.
Today, the AK Party's understanding of service, its relationship and attitude towards citizens, and the attitude of administrators towards citizens have become more humanized.
Innovation and change in public services is a continuous process.
Reforms will continue with determination for citizen and result-oriented service delivery.
Central administration reform, particularly the reorganization of ministries, will be accelerated.
Within the framework of the "principle of the integrity of the administration", while strengthening local governments in a service-oriented manner, taking into account the fact that the central administration and local governments are complementary structures,
On the other hand, we will further emphasize the central administration's strategy development, standard setting, monitoring and auditing functions.
In this context, the process of transferring local services to local administrations will continue.
Ensuring zoning integrity throughout the province is one of our important goals.
As the central administration, we will further strengthen our functions of providing guidance to local governments and auditing them on the basis of certain standards.
The Law on Provincial Administration and the Village Law will be revised in this period.
The classification of our villages according to population and the participation of each unit in further service units and democratic mechanisms will be increased.
The coming period will be a period in which a citizen-oriented, service-oriented approach to governance will be fully realized in our country.
Our management approach, structure and strategies will be shaped by the new Constitution and the vision of Turkey in 2023.
By prioritizing the following issues, we will continue on the road and in service in the coming period.
We will continue to strengthen commitment to ethical values.
The need for public support and trust in public administration has increased even more than in the past.
At this point, the AK Party attaches the utmost importance to public officials being ethical and trustworthy.
During the Ak Parti rule, significant strides have been made in the fight against corruption, bribery and nepotism that lead to moral degradation.
The Strategy for Increasing Transparency and Strengthening the Fight against Corruption was adopted and the commitment to clean governance= was institutionalized.
Reviewing the procurement system in the new era,
Increasing transparency in zoning and license procedures,
strengthening audit units,
Preventing corruption in the private sector and civil society organizations will also be a priority area of work.
E-Transformation Turkey Project will be given a new impetus.
Our primary goal is to mature the public administration, which operates and provides services on a 24-hour basis through the electronic system, in all respects.
Thus, we envision making life easier for our citizens and improving their quality of life.
In this context, security and archiving standards to be followed in electronic correspondence will be determined.
Systems in accordance with these standards will be established in all public institutions and organizations.
With the establishment of the Electronic Archive System, the practices of requesting documents from citizens during the provision of public services will be abolished.
An electronic archive system will be adopted to ensure the security of archives, which are among the most important treasures of the state, and to save on archive expenses.
The call center system will be expanded to better inform the public, increase the quality of services and eliminate bureaucracy.
We will continue to remove unnecessary bureaucracy.
AK Party aims to increase the quality of life of the people by reducing bureaucracy and red tape, and to facilitate access to public services.
and reducing costs are among its prioritized targets.
The principle that trust in the declaration is essential will be extended in all areas.
Documents requested from citizens during the provision of public services and held in the archives of other institutions will not be requested.
Individuals will be empowered vis-à-vis public administration and bureaucracy.
To this end, standards of public services will be determined and the practice of sharing them with citizens will be expanded.
We will continue to strengthen the effectiveness and coordination of our institutions.
Institutions such as the General Directorate of Rural Services, General Directorate of Land Office, General Directorate of Civil Defense, General Directorate of Disaster Affairs were abolished,
Hundreds of outdated regulations and circulars have been annulled.
We will continue to take the necessary measures to ensure the effectiveness of the administrative structure.
The provincial system will be strengthened and village and neighborhood administrations will be reviewed.
AK Party is determined to strengthen village and neighborhood administrations, which are the best examples of direct democracy.
Enacted in 1924, the Village Law No. 442 was eroded as a result of social, economic and cultural changes in Turkey and village administrations became dysfunctional.
With the new arrangements to be made, the administrative and financial capacities of village administrations will be strengthened and
villages will be provided with a participatory, transparent, transparent and accountable management structure.
Neighborhood mukhtars were regulated by the Law No. 4541 on the Organization of Neighborhood Mukhtars and Boards of Elders in Cities and Towns, which was enacted in 1944.
As a result of changes in the constitutional system and other legislation in Turkey, a significant portion of the duties carried out by neighborhood mukhtars have been transferred to other administrative units
and the functions of these units have been reduced.
A new law will strengthen the link between governorships, district governorships and municipalities and neighborhood mukhtars.
The AK Party believes that a provincial organization with high administrative and financial capacity and an effective coordination mechanism between institutions is important for the effective, efficient and rapid delivery of public services.
Provincial administration will be reorganized, and the
technical capacity and authorities scattered across many institutions and organizations will be pooled as much as possible.
Arrangements will be made to increase the own revenues of local governments.
The AK Party aims to increase the revenues of local governments in order to provide local public services according to public expectations.
In line with this goal, we enacted the Law on Allocation of Shares from General Budget Tax Revenues to Special Provincial Administrations and Municipalities.
While the amount of funds transferred from the central government budget to local governments was 4.7 billion TL in 2002, this amount increased to over 20 billion TL in 2010.
We believe that the share of own revenues in local government revenues should be increased in order to enhance public scrutiny and accountability in local governments.
In this framework, we will increase the own revenues of local governments in the upcoming period and allocate financing resources to local governments to meet the ever-increasing demand for local services.
We will review the division of duties between local governments and the central administration with a service-oriented approach.
During the period of our government, the principle of local common services being carried out by local governments was adopted.
Local administrations will be fully authorized to provide local common services in line with the principles of the European Charter of Local Self-Government.
We will make the necessary arrangements for zoning.
A ministry will be authorized to make the zoning amendments needed for the services carried out by the central administration, to set national zoning standards, to prepare secondary legislation, and to resolve conflicts between institutions
, and the problems in this field will be ended.
We will intensify our efforts to prepare for earthquakes and other natural disasters.
Special and extraordinary authorized units will be established under the chairmanship of the governor or metropolitan mayor to carry out earthquake preparedness activities in regions with high earthquake vulnerability, particularly in Istanbul and Kocaeli provinces.
This unit will be fully authorized to expropriate, make zoning arrangements, provide housing and infrastructure services, demolish risky and damaged buildings, use the powers granted to the relevant institutions by law, and transfer development rights.
It will be ensured that the lawsuits for annulment and stay of execution to be filed against the decisions taken by this board will be discussed and decided by the courts first.
In addition, earthquake preparedness efforts will be accelerated by making arrangements to prevent the filing of stay of execution lawsuits against decisions regarding the evacuation and demolition of risky and damaged buildings.
Big Economy
JUNE 12 GENERAL ELECTIONS
Election
Declaration
Philosophy of the Economic Program Global Developments and Turkey Macroeconomic and Sectoral Policies, Targets Macroeconomics Fiscal Policy Income Policy Public Expenditures and Investments Monetary Policy Financial Services Balance of Payments Employment and Working Life R&D and Innovation Microeconomics, Entrepreneurship and Industrial Policies Exports of Goods and Services Defense Industry Construction, Technical Consultancy and Contracting Services Customs Services Tourism Agriculture Energy and Mining Transportation, Communication, Information and Communication Technologies
Philosophy of the Economic Program
As the Justice and Development Party, we have seen the economy as one of our main priorities from the very beginning.
Putting aside vicious bickering and superficial approaches, we will continue to grow the bread of our people.
and we are focused on fairer sharing.
We did not give preference to simplistic and deceptive approaches that may be popular in the short term, but in the long term cost our people dearly.
We formulated our economic policies with a holistic perspective and a long-term approach
and we implemented it effectively.
As in every field, we put people at the center of the economy.
Instead of imposing a top-down model in the development process, we aimed to create the appropriate environment to mobilize the potential of our people and entrepreneurs.
"Trust" is at the heart of the AK Party government's economic policies and governance approach.
The most important source of our historic achievements is the environment of trust we have created.
The AK Party government implemented the transparent economic policies it announced with a strong political will, kept its promises and acted on the principle of "we will not be deceived".
Trust is hard to earn, it takes time.
Losing it happens very quickly.
We have built this environment of trust in a meticulous and painstaking process, and
in return we have achieved remarkable successes.
It should not be forgotten that in incompetent hands, with simplistic and deceptive approaches and policies, this environment of trust will quickly disappear.
Our economic policies are based on the principles of "transparency", "continuity", "consistency" and "predictability".
We share our policies and results with the public in a transparent manner, and we
take care to ensure that all practices are consistent with each other.
By ensuring continuity in fundamental policies, we create a predictable environment for our people and economic decision-makers.
Sustainable economic development can only be built on an advanced democratic order.
The protection of fundamental rights, respect for fundamental freedoms and the existence of the rule of law with all its rules and institutions constitute the main dynamics of a functioning market economy.
Our government has achieved its economic successes in parallel with its democratization efforts.
A functioning legal order based on contemporary norms is a prerequisite for economic development.
A legal system that ensures the security of life and property, is closed to arbitrariness and above day-to-day debates ensures that economic activities are carried out with confidence and predictability.
The constitutional amendments, legal arrangements and the process we have initiated, especially in the field of judicial reform, are the guarantee of a strong economy.
Preventing unfair competition,
where intellectual property rights are protected,
consumer rights are not violated,
In an environment where there is no discrimination between parties to contracts, uncertainties are reduced, thus increasing investment, production and employment.
The main objective of the AK Party's economic policies is to increase the welfare and happiness of our people.
Our Party is based on the human being as the source and target of economic development.
In today's competitive world, we have integrated our economic policies with strong social policies, knowing that investments in people, human qualities and a healthy social environment are also investments in our economic potential.
and started a period of social restoration.
While this basic approach, which is increasingly strengthened by employment-friendly growth, makes our country a center of attraction for both capital and qualified brains,
It also serves our goal of a society consisting of healthy and well-equipped individuals.
We have consistently, effectively and successfully realized our economic vision over the past 8 years.
For a better understanding of this new and inclusive economic model, it would be useful to recall the periods before the AK Party.
Compared to the past, there is a striking transformation in the economy, as in almost every field.
The 1990s, characterized by inefficient coalition structures and vicious bickering, were the "lost years" of our country.
In these years, characterized by the crises of 1994, 1999 and finally 2001, growth stalled, unemployment, inflation, interest rates and debt burden increased rapidly.
In the same period, corruption rose to a level that shook macro balances,
our people's hopes for the future were lost, and our reputation in the international arena was lost.
In the November 2002 elections, our people ousted all the political actors they considered responsible for this situation and the old political understanding represented by these actors.
The AK Party, which came to power in the November 2002 elections, has been entrusted with a very important mission.
The mission of "rebuilding a new politics based on national will, fundamental rights and pluralism and the economy on the basis of this politics"...
Immediately after the AK Party government took office, political stability was rapidly strengthened and it
started to implement a very comprehensive economic program, which it had announced in full detail before the elections.
In the 2003-2007 period, economic growth averaged 6.9 percent annually. The
ratio of the EU-defined general government budget deficit to GDP, which was 10.2 percent in 2002, was reduced to 1 percent in 2007, while the
ratio of the EU-defined general government nominal debt stock to GDP decreased from 73.7 percent to 39.4 percent.
In the 2002-2007 period, annual consumer price inflation dropped from 29.7 percent to 8.4 percent.
Turkey's 2003-2007 experience has shown that fiscal discipline, strong growth performance and disinflation can be achieved simultaneously.
The policies we implemented were highly appreciated by our people in the July 2007 elections, and
at the end of the 5-year period, the voters said "no stop, keep going" with a much higher voting rate.
Our party has kept the promises it made in its 2002 and 2007 election manifestos,
has not failed to repay the trust placed in its political leadership, its cadres and its program.
It not only healed the wounds of the crises, but also resolutely took the necessary measures to prevent similar crises from occurring again.
Despite all the bureaucratic obstructions, threats to democracy, party closure cases and unfair accusations, our country is much more stable and respected today than in the past,
our people are much more prosperous and free,
our economy is much more competitive and stronger.
The success of the reforms undertaken by our government in the 2003-2007 period was tested by the global crisis and our economy passed this test successfully.
When we look at the effects of the global crisis and the 2001 crisis, the difference will be obvious.
The 2001 crisis was caused by the governments that ruled our country until then,
but others came in and managed it.
The global crisis was created by others, but we managed it well.
In the 2001 crisis, there was no crisis in the world, but we had coalition structures and poor economic management.
There is a crisis in the world today, but in many respects Turkey's performance is the envy of the world.
The AK Party has not only achieved a leap in numerical values, but also
a structural change in our economy.
As the whole world now recognizes, our economy is much more resilient to external shocks.
We managed the global crisis with our own policies and means, without using resources from international organizations such as the IMF.
Not a single bank has failed,
we did not get into a debt-interest spiral,
We did not experience turbulence in the financial markets.
We renewed our self-confidence as an emerging economy after the global crisis.
We have become a country that sheds light on other countries, shares its positive experiences, and stands tall on all international platforms, especially the G-20.
Today, Turkey is the largest economy and the most influential political actor in its region.
Our country's achievements are a source of inspiration for the region.
Building on more than eight years of successful performance and self-confidence, we are not only making the program for the next four years, but also
laying the foundations for 2023, the 100th anniversary of our Republic.
In the new period, our main goal is to increase the welfare level of our country,
further raise its growth potential in line with its ultimate goal
and increase employment.
Our goal is to transform into an information society,
has achieved European Union standards in every field
and a strong Turkey with high competitiveness on a global scale.
Our private sector will again be at the forefront of the high growth we will achieve in the coming years.
As AK Party, we will continue to implement policies that will pave the way for our private sector.
For this, macroeconomic stability must be maintained,
productivity gains in the goods and services sectors,
We will continue reforms to increase competitiveness.
We will effectively maintain the regulatory and supervisory function of the state, particularly in financial markets, while delivering or ensuring the delivery of basic public services in a widespread and high-quality manner.
Everything is for people and we will continue to fulfill the requirements of being a modern social state with the understanding that "justice is the foundation of property".
In the 100th year of our Republic, Turkey will be among the world's top 10 economies in terms of Gross Domestic Product.
Inflation and interest rates will be permanently low and in single digits.
Our exports will reach 500 billion dollars.
With a population of over 82 million, the national income per capita will rise to 25 thousand dollars.
We will reach an economy size of at least 2 trillion dollars.
We will never compromise on the core elements of our economic program.
We will resolutely maintain fiscal discipline.
Fighting inflation will be our main priority in the future, as it has been until now.
our commitment to employment-based growth= will continue.
We will continue to advocate for free capital movements and free trade.
We will maintain the floating exchange rate regime.
We will implement our structural reforms with determination.
We will not implement an electoral economy as we have done so far.
We firmly believe that our sainted nation will give the necessary answer to those who are trying this way with their prudence.
We believe that the people of this country deserve the best
and we work devotedly day and night for this cause.
Global Developments and Turkey
Starting in 2008 with the financial sector, the latest global crisis caused the global economy to contract in 2009 for the first time since World War II.
In many countries, unemployment has skyrocketed, while
budget deficits and public debt stocks have reached historic highs.
On the other hand, energy and food prices have increased significantly in the last year due to climate change as well as social and political developments in our region.
In many countries, cuts in expenditures or increases in taxes to control rising deficits and debts impose heavy costs on large segments of society, especially workers.
Thanks to the successful management of our government, the fact that the crisis has passed Turkey by a tangent is now widely recognized.
The AK Party government prepared a Medium Term Program containing an exit strategy from the crisis earlier than many other countries
and implemented it decisively.
The effects of the global crisis were minimized by acting according to the experiences and realities of our country, not according to the fashion and winds blowing in the world, expectations were well managed, and the effects of the global crisis were minimized with well-designed interventions in dosage and duration.
and Turkey was one of the fastest countries to emerge from the crisis.
During the crisis and the recovery process, while maintaining fiscal discipline and implementing policies to reduce the public deficit,
On the other hand, in public spending, we prioritized infrastructure investments and programs to improve the quality of the workforce to support our long-term growth potential.
The main driver of growth was the private sector's consumption and investment expenditures in an environment of increased confidence.
While in many countries the wages of workers and pensioners were frozen or wages were regressing, our government did not let its citizens be crushed by inflation and
was able to give increases above inflation to those who received relatively low wages.
During this period, no bank in Turkey failed or needed to be rescued.
Wealth did not melt away, there were no overnight riches or overnight poverty.
Despite the crisis, the Treasury's borrowing interest rates are at historic lows in both nominal and real terms.
Turkey's credit rating has increased.
The Central Bank's Foreign Exchange Reserves reached historically high levels.
In this crisis period, Turkey diverged favorably from other countries in many indicators.
With this crisis, the potential growth rate declined in many developed countries.
Projections for the coming period suggest that the balance of economic power in the world will shift rapidly from West to East.
In this context, Turkey constitutes one of the centers of gravity.
The crisis brought the weakness in global governance to the forefront and
increased the importance of platforms such as the G-20, which includes emerging market economies.
The period ahead holds a series of developments that will change the world order.
From the economy to social problems, from regional conflicts to cultural interactions, from new organizational structures to new technologies, from new ways of doing politics, a radical change and transformation will be felt in all areas of life.
Turkey's importance, weight and effectiveness will undoubtedly increase in this new world order.
Turkey's role and responsibility will be global in nature.
The recent developments and rising demands in the geographical and cultural basin of our country point to a period in which the policies we will pursue will resonate in a wider framework.
Turkey's experience will become more valuable in this new era, when governments based on the will of the people must respond to the development demands of the masses.
A government that reads these developments correctly and implements the necessary policies will not only contribute to the democratization and development of these countries, but will
also serve our country's vision of a strong Turkey.
This turbulent period in the world has increased the importance of strong political leadership and stable governments that can take the right decisions and implement them quickly.
Macroeconomic and Sectoral Policies, Targets Macroeconomics
The main objectives of our macroeconomic policies are to achieve sustainable growth,
increase employment
and realize price stability,
thereby increasing social and individual welfare
and ensuring its fair distribution.
In this context, a fiscal policy that prioritizes fiscal discipline,
price stability is taken as the main priority
and monetary policies conducted within the framework of the operational independence of the Central Bank and structural reforms to be implemented in a wide range of areas are essential.
In this framework, the structural transformation we have initiated in the areas of financial stability, labor markets, education and judicial system, informality, state support, good governance, local governments and regional development is of great importance.
The Turkish economy grew at an average annual rate of 6.9 percent between 2003 and 2007. In
2008 and 2009, the growth figures, which had a low performance due to the anti-democratic initiatives and the global crisis, recovered rapidly in 2010
and Turkey became one of the fastest growing economies in the world with a rate of 8.9 percent.
GDP, which was USD 230.5 billion in 2002, reached USD 735.8 billion by the end of 2010.
The growth rates recorded were reflected in the size of national income per capita despite the increase in population
, and per capita income, which was USD 3,492 at the end of 2002, rose to USD 10,079 at the end of 2010.
Simultaneously with the high growth performance, a great success was achieved in the fight against inflation
and the annual CPI inflation rate, which was 29.7 percent at the end of 2002, was realized as 6.4 percent in 2010.
With high growth and low inflation rates, the number of low-income citizens has decreased significantly.
While there are currently about 1 billion people in the world whose daily income is below 1 dollar, thanks to our social state practices, there is no one living below this income level in our country.
The proportion of citizens with an income of less than 2.15 dollars per day in the population decreased from 3 percent in 2002 to 2 per thousand in 2009.
The share of citizens with an income of less than 4.3 dollars per day in the population decreased from 30 percent in 2002 to 4 percent in 2009.
Let us give a few examples of the great improvement in the purchasing power of our low-income citizens: In 2002, our minimum wage earner could buy 181 kg of bread and 64 liters of sunflower oil with one month's wage.
In 2010, he was able to buy 285 kg of bread and 141 liters of sunflower oil.
Similarly, in 2002, the lowest civil servant could buy 386 kg of bread and 136 liters of sunflower oil with his monthly salary.
In 2010, he was able to buy 618 kg of bread and 305 liters of sunflower oil.
In the 2023 perspective, our macroeconomic targets by years will be as follows:
Fiscal Policy
Public finance is a crucial area to ensure confidence in the economy, strengthen stability and predictability, and contribute to increasing the resources available to the private sector.
Public debts, which were abused to the fullest extent by bad governments before our government, have been reduced by the AK Party's smart, sound and uncompromising policies,
thus lowering the risk premium of our country and
increasing confidence in our economy.
As a result, we have achieved high growth rates.
During our tenure in power, we have paid particular attention to the observance of fiscal discipline and the coherence of monetary policy.
Because we have the responsibility to transfer every penny we receive from our citizens as taxes to their welfare, the growth of our country and a bright future.
As a result of our confidence and stability in the economy, interest rates have fallen,
which in turn has reduced interest expenditures.
With the additional revenues generated through privatization, the AK Party government increased production and income, and
took the economic performance of our country to unprecedented levels.
During the 16 years between 1986 and 2002, a total of 8 billion dollars had been privatized.
Between 2003 and 2010, that is, in 8 years, we privatized more than 4 times this amount, i.e. a total of 33.7 billion dollars.
As a result of the sensitive observance of fiscal discipline during our period in power, the ratio of public sector borrowing requirement to GDP, which was 10 percent in 2002, was realized as 3.3 percent in 2010 despite the negative effects of the global crisis.
With the decline in borrowing needs and interest rates, the share of total public sector interest payments in GDP declined from 15.5 percent in 2002 to 4.7 percent in 2010.
As a result of these developments, the ratio of EU-defined general government debt stock to GDP declined from 73.7 percent in 2002 to 41.6 percent at end-2010.
In this way, we have significantly reduced the burden of our citizens
and provided great resources to the economy.
We not only reduced the ratio of our debt to national income, but also
improved the quality of our debt stock.
We reduced the share of FX-denominated and FX-indexed debt in total gross debt stock from 58.1 percent in 2002 to 26.6 percent in 2010.
We increased the average maturity of domestic borrowing from 9 months in 2002 to 44 months in 2010.
For the first time in the history of the Republic, we borrowed in Turkish Lira in the domestic market with a maturity of 10 years.
We increased the average maturity of the dollar-denominated bonds we issued abroad from 7 years in 2002 to over 20 years in 2010.
This is an expression of confidence in our economy.
At this point, our debt stock is much more resilient to currency, interest rate and liquidity fluctuations.
The shares of expenditure items in the budget have changed significantly during our government.
Our government has provided much greater services to our citizens by putting less burden on them, by putting our children and our future less in debt.
While the share of interest expenditures in the budget decreased gradually and significantly,
investment expenditures, social expenditures and personnel expenditures increased.
In 2002, 86 liras out of every 100 liras of taxes collected went to interest payments, while this figure decreased 3.5 times, to 23 liras in 2010.
We spent the taxes entrusted to us by our people in the most accurate, efficient and effective way.
As a result, both our prosperity and our power have increased.
We spent our resources again as investments in our country.
Because our source is not this or that person, this or that word, but Turkey itself.
Previously, governments that had squandered money through corruption, irresponsibility, incompetence and continuous borrowing had put the entire burden on the backs of our nation in the form of high interest and inflation.
Now this dark period is over.
Thanks to the AK Party government, which governs well, produces solutions, takes care of our people and acts responsibly, education, health and social protection expenditures have started to take the most important share in the budget.
In fact, the size of social expenditures in the budget increased from TL 41 billion in 2004 to TL 117 billion in 2010.
The share of social expenditures in budget expenditures increased from 29.4 percent to 40 percent.
We implemented structural reforms in fiscal policies.
The Public Financial Management and Control Law No. 5018, which adopts a result-oriented approach in resource utilization and is designed according to the needs of the economy, was put into effect.
Our 2023 Goals in Fiscal Policy
We will further consolidate the implementation of our reforms and
increase fiscal transparency and accountability.
Thus, we will ensure that our country attains a financial structure and system at the standards of developed economies.
We will reinforce the leading role of the private sector and
continue privatization practices with determination within the program.
Public sector withdrawal from electricity distribution and sugar production;
We aim to reduce its share in electricity generation, telecommunications, port, highway and bridge operations.
We will implement a new governance model in SEEs.
A new arrangement will be made in SEEs based on accountability, transparency, flexibility in decision-making processes and strategic management approach.
The idle Treasury-owned immovables will be brought into the economy through projects to be developed in coordination with relevant public institutions and organizations.
Efforts will continue to develop new instruments and new sales methods in order to expand the investor base of government securities.
Income Policy
Thanks to the tax policy pursued during our period in power, a fairer taxation system has been established.
As a requirement of our social policies, VAT rates have been reduced in food, education, health, textiles and tourism, which benefit large segments of society.
Increasing the competitiveness of our companies
and to give them more resources, the corporate tax rate was reduced from 33 percent to 20 percent.
We have reduced the income tax burden and eliminated some taxes that increase the transaction burden and
reduced others.
We also increased support for R&D activities.
We continued to fight against the informal economy, which leads to unfair competition in the economy, reduces predictability and causes serious tax losses, within the framework of the Action Plan of the Strategy for Combating the Informal Economy, which was prepared during the period of our government and updated over time.
To facilitate taxpayers, we introduced the e-declaration application
and automated tax offices to a large extent.
Our 2023 Goals in Income Policy
Our public revenue policy will continue to be implemented in a way to ensure the most efficient use of national resources.
Tax policy, which is the most important implementation tool in this regard, will support economic growth, investment and employment.
and will be revised to reduce informality in the economy.
As informality is reduced, tax rates will also decrease.
In this sense, in the implementation of tax policy, it is important to support those who want to produce more, those who are committed to using their resources more effectively, those who pay their taxes regularly, those who employ more personnel with their earnings, and all kinds of new entrepreneurs who will grow the economy.
and economic actors will adopt a proactive approach that is highly predictable and closed to surprises.
With economic growth, the proportional distribution of the types of tax revenues will be changed in favor of direct taxes, and a structure in line with developed economies will be achieved.
The implementation of tax policies will continue with an approach to accelerate the inflow of direct global capital investments,
support investments and R&D activities,
increase employment
and will continue with an approach to reduce interregional development disparities.
Tax legislation will be simplified and an
effective collection system will be established to ensure timely payment of fiscal obligations.
Efforts to increase voluntary tax compliance and broaden the tax base will continue.
Arrangements to increase the own revenues of local governments will be realized.
Public Expenditures and Investments
Our basic approach to public expenditures is to ensure that resources are used effectively and efficiently in the necessary areas.
Increasing economic growth and employment,
Improving the competitiveness and business environment of our country by providing the necessary infrastructure,
ensuring regional development,
development of our human resources,
In short, we attach great importance to public expenditures and investments in order to increase the welfare and quality of life of our citizens.
We take a holistic approach to investments in the public and private sectors.
The main objective of our investment policies is to direct public and private sector investments to efficient, rational and complementary investment areas and to
realize development under the leadership of the private sector.
We allocated significant resources from the budget for public investments.
With innovative practices such as Development Agencies, KÖYDES, BELDES and SODES, we transferred significant resources to local administrations for localized works.
Thus, more work has been produced with the same amount of resources, new projects have been selective
, and projects have been completed and put into service rapidly.
During our period in power, we have both completed the ongoing projects from previous years and
developed new projects and started their construction.
While the completion period of investments was 8.5 years in 2002, we reduced this period by half, i.e. to 4.2 years in 2011.
This is approximately one election period.
This is a great achievement when we consider that in previous periods projects were not completed for decades.
We commit to inauguration dates even as we lay the foundations of investments.
While there were public investments whose foundations could not be laid for many years, we have minimized the time between groundbreaking and ribbon cutting.
We will continue to make effective and efficient investments in the period ahead.
We continue to implement economic and social infrastructure projects, particularly the Southeastern Anatolia Project, Eastern Anatolia Project and Konya Plain Project, to reduce regional development disparities.
Our 2023 Targets in Public Investments
In the medium and long term, we will continue to focus on infrastructure investments such as highways, railways, airports, rail systems, dams and irrigation, and information and communication technologies that support the efficiency and productive structure of the economy.
We concentrate public investment in areas of economic and social infrastructure that cannot be realized by the private sector.
In order to make maximum use of the private sector's effective management and financial capabilities, we have realized important infrastructure projects through Public-Private Partnerships.
Our practices that ensure private sector participation in public infrastructure investments will continue to increase.
In public expenditures, a policy that prioritizes socially oriented areas and infrastructure investments that support development potential will be pursued.
Public employees, workers and pensioners will not be crushed by inflation as they have been until now.
Monetary Policy
The main objective of monetary policies is to achieve and maintain price stability.
Monetary policy will also safeguard financial stability
and support the government's growth and employment policies, provided that they do not conflict with the objective of achieving price stability.
Inflation targeting will remain the main monetary policy regime.
Inflation targets will be set by the government and the Central Bank over a three-year period.
The floating exchange rate regime will be maintained.
It will continue to be essential for the Central Bank to directly determine the monetary policy to be implemented and the monetary policy instruments to be used to achieve price stability.
Financial Services
strengthened the surveillance and audit infrastructure of the financial sector during our period in power,
We have implemented a series of regulations that increase diversity and depth in the sector.
In this framework, the Banking Law, which we prepared in line with EU legislation, entered into force in 2005.
The debit card and credit card market, which started to develop in Turkey in the mid-1980s, was legally regulated with the Bank Cards and Credit Cards Law under the AK Party government after more than 20 years.
We have prepared the legal infrastructure for the new mortgaged housing finance system ("mortgage").
We introduced the private pension system, which is important as a complement to the social security system and for the formation of long-term funds.
With the new insurance law, we brought the insurance sector into a legislative framework at EU standards.
We continued the prudent management of state-owned banks.
Ziraat Bank and Halkbank, on the one hand, provided important credit opportunities to our farmers and tradesmen under favorable conditions in line with their real functions, on the
other hand, they maintained the profitability structure they reached during the period of our government and started to make a significant contribution to our Treasury.
We have contributed significantly to the establishment of a healthy lending and repayment relationship between the financial sector and the real sector and individual borrowers.
In the past, within the framework of the Istanbul Approach and the Anatolian Approach, thousands of companies' debts to banks were restructured, as well as the credit card debts of citizens with payment difficulties were restructured.
As a result of these steps, we have restored the banking sector to a sound structure with a solid balance sheet, strong capital adequacy, low exchange rate and credit risk.
In addition to avoiding a burden from the financial sector thanks to the timely measures we took,
burden from the 2000-2001 crisis during our period in power. By
the end of 2010, all of the special-issue bonds issued due to the 2000-2001 crisis had been paid in full.
In order to pay this amount, the Treasury had to borrow from the market.
If such a burden had not been left on the Treasury, the Treasury's debt would have been 381 billion 877 million TL less today.
Considering that the domestic debt as of the end of December 2010 was 352 billion 841 million TL, it will be seen that if it were not for the 2000-2001 crisis, we would actually have no domestic debt.
Recognizing the importance of a healthy financial system for the real sector and economic growth, our Party is committed to improving the competitive environment in the sector in the period ahead,
On the other hand, the CBRT will continue to take all necessary measures in a timely and decisive manner to enable the real sector to benefit more from the financial system.
In this framework, regulation and supervision of the financial sector will be improved in line with international standards, the EU acquis and the new efforts led by the G-20 platform in the post-crisis period.
Financial markets will be monitored more effectively
and the effectiveness of systemic risk management will be enhanced.
Practices to protect consumer and investor rights in the financial sector will be improved.
Capital Markets Strategy Document will be prepared and put into practice.
The Istanbul International Finance Center Strategy and Action Plan will be rigorously implemented.
Within the framework of the development of a financial sector that produces high value-added services, Istanbul will become a regional and ultimately a global financial center.
The share of the financial sector in Turkey's national income was 4 percent between 2002 and 2009.
This value exceeds 10 percent in the UK.
In this framework, the development potential of the financial sector is considered to be quite high.
Our 2023 Goals for the Finance Sector
By the 100th anniversary of our Republic, Istanbul will be among the top 10 financial centers in the world.
Necessary human, physical, technical, tax and legal measures will be taken in line with this strategic objective.
Istanbul will become a "prestige" financial center, while
some of our other cities will become financial centers specializing in specific thematic and regional financial transactions, supporting Istanbul.
The number of Turkish companies listed on the ISE will be at least 1000.
The number of foreign companies traded will exceed the number of Turkish companies
and represent at least 10 countries.
Balance of Payments
There are some structural reasons behind Turkey's high current account deficit during periods of rapid growth.
With a net import dependency of 74 percent in energy, almost all oil and natural gas and one-fifth of coal are imported.
Another reason for the increase in the current account deficit is the external dependence of high-growth and high-technology based sectors in the use of inputs.
In order to reduce the current account deficit to lower levels, it is crucial to increase diversification in energy supply in terms of sources, technology and infrastructure.
In this framework, domestic and international exploration activities in oil and natural gas have gained great momentum in recent years.
Increasing the share of renewable energy sources in energy supply and the efforts initiated for the use of nuclear power plants in electricity generation are factors that will reduce external dependence on energy and the current account deficit in the medium-long term.
In July 2009, we started to implement a new Investment Incentive System.
In this context, sectors that can compete at the international level have been identified, taking into account world and national conditions,
and the new system has adopted the principle of differentiating incentive rates on a regional, sectoral and major project basis.
From August 2009, when the New Incentive System entered into force, until the end of February 2011, 6161 Investment Incentive Certificates were issued, with an
investment of TL 76.5 billion and
an additional employment of 204,013 people.
Incentive certificates issued in support of major projects include major investments in refinery construction, electric car manufacturing, production of high-tech aircraft engines and parts, and expansion of port services capacity.
Increasing Turkey's international competitiveness through these investment projects, the new technologies they transfer and the production and logistics capacities they create
and will make a significant contribution to reducing the current account deficit in the medium-long term.
One of the most important factors for reducing the current account deficit is to increase competitiveness in broad terms.
Improving the business environment accordingly,
reducing informality in the economy,
Supporting R&D and innovation,
dissemination of information and communication technologies,
improving energy and transportation infrastructure
and the development of the financial system, comprehensive structural reforms have been implemented.
Despite the increase in the current account deficit in recent years, no problems have been encountered in financing the current account deficit.
As a result of the environment of confidence and stability created in all areas, capital inflows exceeded the external resource needs of the economy.
As a result, Central Bank reserves increased 3.5 times from USD 27 billion in 2002 to USD 80.2 billion by the end of 2010.
In the upcoming period, policies and supports to increase domestic production capacity, especially in intermediate goods and investment goods, will continue in order to reduce the high dependence of production and exports on imports.
In strategic sectors with high external dependency, the functionality of programs for the development of domestic technological capabilities and their transformation into products will be increased.
Based on innovation and R&D to increase the global competitiveness of firms in exports,
high added value,
production and marketing processes of branded products and services will be supported.
Reducing bureaucracy to improve the business environment,
The successes achieved in the past period in accelerating transactions and reducing transaction costs will be maintained in the period ahead.
Employment and Working Life
Employment
As AK Party, providing jobs for all our citizens who are able to work has been one of our top priorities, olmaya will continue.
Recognizing that one of the most important factors in increasing employment is to maintain a high growth rate, we have both increased our growth rate and
put employment at the center of growth.
As a matter of fact, as a result of the successful policies we implemented, our employment did not decrease during the crisis and we provided employment to 1 million 317 thousand citizens in 2010.
We have successfully started to implement active and passive labor policies, another important tool to increase employment.
We were one of the countries that recovered most quickly from the crisis. ´5fThe global
economic crisis led to a sharp decline in labor demand and unemployment all over the world, particularly in developed countries.
In Spain, the unemployment rate rose from 8.3 percent to 19.9 percent between 2007 and 2010.
In other words, the number of unemployed has more than doubled.
Similar high rates of increase can also be observed in other countries: 4.6 percent to 9.7 percent in the USA, 8.3 percent to 9.8 percent in France, 5.4 percent to 7.9 percent in the UK, 4.6 percent to 13.5 percent in Ireland, 3.8 percent to 5.1 percent in Japan, and 8.3 percent to 11.8 percent in neighboring Greece.
In Turkey, the increase in unemployment was limited by the measures taken rapidly,
period of strong growth resumed even before the end of 2009.
Unemployment was 11 percent in 2008 and 14 percent in 2009.
Compared to the countries mentioned above, the increase in the number of unemployed in Turkey has remained quite limited. As of the
second half of 2009, unemployment has been on a downward trend.
Unemployment continued to decline rapidly in 2010
and dropped to 11.9 percent as of the year average.
In developed countries, international organizations predict that unemployment figures will not fall to pre-crisis levels before 2015.
As AK Party, we have identified two strategic approaches to reduce unemployment.
While reducing cyclical unemployment by introducing active labor market programs and incentive packages one after the other,
other hand, we developed long-term strategies to find solutions to structural unemployment, which had turned into gangrene.
we put employment incentive packages into effect. we implemented
five legal regulations, also known as "employment packages" in public opinion, to protect and increase employment.
We have implemented and continue to implement premium reduction incentives.
We reduced the employer insurance premium rate for all employees by 5 points.
We provided incentives for 5 years for the employment of men between the ages of 18-29 and women aged 18 and over, and those working in R&D activities.
We incentivize the employment of disabled employees by covering the employer's insurance premium share.
We incentivize employers who provide additional employment by covering the employer's insurance premium share.
We increased the amount of unemployment benefit.
We made the short-time working allowance operational,
increased its duration and the amount of the allowance.
We merged the Provincial Employment and Provincial Vocational Education Boards and made them more effective.
We enabled more people to benefit from vocational training, entrepreneurship training, internship programs and work for the benefit of society programs.
In this framework, we allocated 1.4 billion TL in 2008, 4.2 billion TL in 2009 and 5.4 billion TL in 2010 for premium reductions and incentives.
Thus, the total resources we allocated reached approximately 11 billion TL.
As of December 2010, 7 million 278 thousand employees benefited from the incentives we provided.
We effectively implemented active labor market policies.
As AK Party government, in addition to incentives, we implemented active labor market programs to increase the employability of our workforce.
These programs include vocational courses, on-the-job training, entrepreneurship and work for the benefit of the community programs.
590 thousand unemployed people benefited from these programs and
911 million TL was spent on these programs.
Within the scope of labor force training courses, unemployed people attending vocational training courses are paid 15 TL per day and are covered by general health insurance.
Until the end of 2010, 492 thousand unemployed people benefited from these courses
and a total of 602 million TL resources were utilized.
As AK Party, we launched the Community Benefit Work Program in 2009 to reduce the individual and social effects of unemployment.
Through these programs, while providing temporary job opportunities to our unemployed people in a crisis environment
On the other hand, we provided services needed by the public such as cleaning schools, renovating and maintaining hospitals, organizing parks and green areas, and planting trees.
Until the end of 2010, 88 thousand unemployed people benefited from the Community Benefit Work Program
and a total of 265 million TL resources were used.
We also implemented passive labor policies to protect employment.
In 2004, we started to implement the Short Work Program, which aims to prevent the layoff of employees in enterprises where production and employment shrink due to the economic crisis or other adverse conditions.
During the crisis period, we increased the amount of short-time working allowance by 50 percent and
increased its duration from 3 to 6 months.
With the short-time working allowance, 152 thousand employees were prevented from becoming unemployed and kept in employment.
Within the scope of this program, a total of 202.5 million TL was paid to our workers for the periods they were compulsorily unable to work.
In this way, we both supported our businesses in the crisis
and prevented our workers from being victimized.
We stood by our citizens who lost their jobs during the global economic crisis.
In this period, we paid approximately 2.5 billion TL to 832,252 citizens.
Thus, while providing temporary income support to citizens who lost their jobs,
we accelerated our exit from the crisis by increasing aggregate demand in the economy.
We prepared the National Employment Strategy.
The AK Party government not only implemented short-term measures and projects to combat unemployment, but also
developed long-term strategies, including 2023 targets, to find solutions to structural unemployment.
As AK Party, we believe that the problem of unemployment should no longer be a subject of exploitation in daily politics.
Therefore, for the first time in the history of the Republic, we prepared a National Employment Strategy with the participation of all relevant parties.
Our strategy includes strategies, policies and measures to be implemented to find a permanent solution to the problem of unemployment within the framework of the 2023 Vision.
The strategy is built on four policy axes: Strengthening the education-employment nexus
Making the labour market more flexible
Increasing the employment of women, youth and disadvantaged groups
Strengthening the employment-social protection nexus.
This strategy envisages Radical changes in education and especially in vocational training
to make labor markets workable
Increasing the effectiveness of institutions providing employment services
Eliminating the rigidities of labor markets within the framework of flexicurity
support the employment of groups that are particularly vulnerable to unemployment
Develop social protection mechanisms to mitigate the effects of unemployment,
Supporting SME-based innovation and entrepreneurship
Reducing informal employment and foreign illegal labor
Introducing incentives that work effectively
Increased utilization of unemployment insurance fund resources to reduce unemployment
Combating unemployment through inter-institutional coordination and cooperation.
We prepared and started to implement the Action Plan for Strengthening the Relationship between Employment and Vocational Education.
Another structural measure we have developed to solve the problem of unemployment is the training of our youth in the fields needed by the labor market with this action plan.
Thus, the complaints of our employers that they cannot find employees with the desired qualifications and professions will be ended.
Within the scope of this Action Plan; Establishment of National Qualification Framework
Updating training programs according to national occupational standards
and harmonization
periodically conducting and evaluating needs analyses related to the labor market
Establishing the necessary incentive mechanisms for the employment and establishment of workplaces for vocational and technical education graduates and holders of vocational qualification certificates
aimed to eliminate legislative incompatibilities related to opening a workplace
and we have started to work in this direction.
At the beginning of 2011, the AK Party government introduced new measures and incentives for employment.
The most important of these is the incentive for the employment of youth, women and qualified labor force, which entered into force on March 1, 2011 with Law No. 6111.
With this incentive we have put into effect; If men between the ages of 18-29 and women over the age of 18 who have been unemployed for the last 6 months are employed for 24 months,
those who have completed vocational and technical education or completed labor force training courses for 36 months,
those who have a vocational qualification certificate for 48 months,
those who have a vocational qualification certificate, graduated from vocational and technical education or completed labor force training courses from men over the age of 29 for 24 months,
We will support those who have received a vocational qualification certificate, completed vocational and technical training or completed labor force training courses after 01.03.2011 by covering the employer's insurance premium share by the state for 12 months.
If these persons are recruited from among the unemployed registered with ISKUR, an additional 6 months will be added to the foreseen periods.
Job opportunities for one million unemployed.
As AK Party, we started the Specialized Vocational Training Centers Project (UMEM) in order to provide skills to our unemployed people, based on the fact that the problem of unemployment in our country is also a problem of lack of profession.
This project, which will continue for five years, will train 1 million unemployed people, 200,000 each year.
and we'll be put to work.
This project is not just an education project.
It is also a project to increase the productivity and competitiveness of our enterprises.
The project collects demands from workplaces under the coordination of TOBB,
and training continues in courses appropriate to these demands.
To date, employers have requested labor for 40 thousand positions.
We have turned 121 Technical and Industrial Vocational High Schools in 81 provinces of our country into Specialized Vocational Training Centers.
We equipped these centers with modern technology.
We have started in-service training for our teachers in these centers to keep up to date.
We first train our unemployed to work in the fields demanded by the Chambers of Industry and Commerce
and then provide them with practical training in the workplace of the chamber member.
We will employ 90 percent of the unemployed who successfully complete these trainings.
The aim of all these efforts is to provide employment for everyone, to give work and food to everyone.
The AK Party's vision for 2023 is a more qualified workforce, more secure jobs and a better quality working life.
We aim to reduce the unemployment rate to 5 percent by 2023. The
employment rate is projected to rise to 50 percent by 2023.
We aim to increase the growth elasticity of non-agricultural employment by 10 points from 0.52 to 0.62 between 2010 and 2023.
We aim to reduce the rate of informal employment in the non-agricultural sector, which is currently around 30%, to 15% by 2023.
We plan to increase the participation rate in lifelong learning from 2 percent to 8 percent in 2023.
In order to realize this vision, our strategies and policies that we will follow in the coming period are as follows: Within the scope of Active Labor Market Policies, we will benefit 400 thousand unemployed people every year from the labor force training courses we organize to increase the qualifications and skills of our unemployed citizens.
By making the necessary arrangements to ensure that those who successfully complete the labor force training course can be employed more, we will increase the job placement rate from 23 percent in 2009 to 40 percent by 2015.
We will start conducting province-based labor market needs analyses to determine the quality, sector and number of labor demanded.
We will establish a National Qualifications Framework in line with the European Qualifications Framework to ensure the international validity of the professional qualifications of our workforce.
We will complete the work we have started to determine the occupational standards in our country and prepare all of the national occupational standards required by the labor market.
We will eliminate the rigidities of our labor market and make it easier for the unemployed to enter work within the framework of the understanding of flexicurity and the principle of "protecting people, not jobs".
In order to ensure the employment of disabled people who are disadvantaged in working life, we will take measures to fill all the quotas for disabled people in the public and private sectors.
In accordance with the principle of social state, we will ensure that those who are able to work among our citizens who have to live their lives by receiving social support because they cannot find employment opportunities will benefit primarily from labor force training courses and job placement services.
One Job and Vocational Counselor for every unemployed person.
Under this program, we will designate a "Job and Vocational Counselor" for each unemployed person registered with İŞKUR.
These counselors will provide one-to-one service to our unemployed.
They will provide vocational guidance services to all unemployed job seekers.
The counselors will also guide citizens in choosing a new career field and creating a realistic plan for getting a job.
They will help people to recognize their professional and personal problems and to better adapt to the work environment.
They will also support primary and high school students who are in the process of choosing a profession to make the right and realistic career choice.
Thus, we will implement a one-to-one, personalized and closely monitored process in vocational training, job search and finding.
Working Life
As AK Party, our aim is to ensure peace and tranquility in working life by ensuring social justice.
In line with this goal, together with the social partners, the rights of our employees and the competitiveness of our enterprises are protected,
We aim to develop a working life in line with EU standards and ILO norms.
We removed constitutional obstacles to the right to organize and bargain collectively.
First of all, we worked to bring the labor legislation up to universal standards.
We abolished the provisions in our Constitution that limited the rights of our employees to organize and bargain collectively.
In this context, we have made it possible for workers and employers to be members of different unions at the same time and in the same line of business.
We provided public servants with the right to collective bargaining. We
abolished the provision that "no more than one collective bargaining agreement can be concluded and implemented at the same workplace for the same period", allowing the parties to engage in multi-layered collective bargaining of their own free will.
In line with the universal principles in contemporary democratic societies, we have removed from the text of the Constitution the provision that "politically motivated strikes and lockouts, solidarity strikes and lockouts, general strikes and lockouts, workplace occupations, work slowdowns, reduced productivity and other forms of resistance are prohibited".
We strengthened the dialogue with the labor and employer circles by providing constitutional guarantees to the Economic and Social Council.
We reduced informality.
Preventing abuse of employees,
ending unfair competition between businesses
and we have taken important steps to improve the actuarial structure of our social security system in the fight against unregistered employment.
As a result of these efforts, the rate of informal employment decreased from 52 percent in 2002 to 43 percent by the end of 2010.
In the last 3 years, about 900 thousand people were registered
and the total number of insured exceeded 16 million for the first time.
We significantly increased the minimum wage.
The AK Party provided significant increases in the minimum wage to improve the living conditions of our workers.
In addition, considering the competitiveness of our businesses, we limited the increase in the cost of the minimum wage to the employer by reducing the premium and tax burdens. the
rate of increase in the minimum wage during our government period was realized above the inflation rate.
The minimum wage, which was 250.9 TL gross in December 2002, has increased to 796.5 TL as of today, with a
nominal increase of 217.5 percent over this period.
In the same period, while the nominal rate of increase in the net minimum wage was 241.8 percent, the nominal rate of increase in employer costs fell to 166.2 percent.
We have made significant progress in occupational health and safety.
One of the top priorities of the AK Party is to create work environments where the health and safety of employees are guaranteed.
Promotion of occupational health and safety culture to reduce occupational accidents and occupational diseases,
We continue our activities to raise awareness of employees and employers.
We started to instill a culture of occupational health and safety in our children, who are the future of this country.
We delivered our guide prepared in this context to our students.
We started to provide training to building inspection staff to ensure occupational health and safety in construction sites where occupational accidents are common.
We implement projects to prevent occupational diseases that our employees are exposed to in the workplace due to physical, chemical and biological factors.
In this context, trainings were given to physicians, and
a guide for diagnosing occupational diseases was prepared and distributed.
In addition, all state and university hospitals were authorized to diagnose occupational diseases.
We made arrangements for the fulfillment of this duty through the employment of workplace physicians and occupational safety specialists or the procurement of services
With a modern understanding, we have completed the work on a separate draft Occupational Health and Safety Law covering all employees in line with EU regulations.
We reduced employment burdens on our employers.
We reduced administrative burdens on employment to increase the competitiveness of our businesses.
We have introduced the possibility of meeting the obligations of establishing a breastfeeding room, opening a nursery, establishing a workplace health and safety unit, employing occupational safety personnel and workplace physicians through service procurement.
On the other hand, employers employing disabled people were encouraged.
We ensured that the Treasury covers the entire employer premium share of disabled people employed within the scope of the disabled quota and half of the employer premium share of disabled people employed beyond the quota.
We have started to define occupational standards.
We have started to determine occupational standards, which will make an important contribution to increasing the skills and qualifications of our workforce, and to exam and certification activities.
To date, we have prepared and published 171 occupational standards.
We established an "examination and certification" system that measures and evaluates the professional competence of the workforce within the international quality assurance system.
Pilot implementations were successfully carried out in this area
and Vocational Qualification Certificates were issued.
We reduced bureaucracy in foreign work permits,
we accelerated the process.
We continued to make arrangements to improve the investment climate and increase the inflow of direct global capital into our country.
In this framework, the number of documents required for foreign work permit applications was significantly reduced and
unnecessary information and documents were prevented.
The AK Party government will fully establish a quality and secure working life in accordance with universal standards and international commitments by the 100th year of our Republic.
New regulations will remove barriers to organizing and raise union organization rates and collective bargaining rates to the EU average.
The level of ratified ILO conventions will reach the EU average.
In Turkey, occupational accidents and occupational diseases will be reduced to the level of developed countries by making necessary legal and administrative arrangements.
Working conditions of employees will be brought to universal standards,
occupational health and safety culture will be developed
and the quality of working life will be improved.
In order to realize this vision, our strategies and policies to be realized are as follows: For the first time in our country, we will prepare a strategy document containing our policies, measures and priorities in the field of occupational health and safety.
In order to prevent work accidents and occupational diseases in our country, we will enact a separate Occupational Health and Safety Law covering all employees in line with EU regulations.
We will hold the 19th World Congress on Occupational Health and Safety in our country, which is an effective organization in increasing the awareness of occupational health and safety in our society.
Our ongoing work with the social partners to amend the Trade Unions Law No. 2821 and the Collective Bargaining, Strike and Lockout Law No. 2822 in order to regulate the trade union organization and collective bargaining system, strike and lockout rights in line with EU standards and ILO norms will be completed and enacted into law.
We will make the necessary legal arrangements in Law No. 4688 in order to exercise the right to collective bargaining granted to public servants by the constitutional amendment.
In order to increase employment and reduce informality, we will encourage and expand flexible working models within the framework of the assured flexibility approach.
In this context, we will effectively operate social dialogue channels
and implement the necessary legal arrangements.
We will finalize the preparations we have started to improve the working conditions of seasonal mobile agricultural workers.
So that these workers can travel more safely,
the continuation of their children's education,
We will ensure that they have better housing, health and social security conditions.
R&D and Innovation
Strong Turkey now has a strong R&D and innovation vision.
This vision has political ownership at the highest level.
Our government attaches special importance to science, technology and innovation for a Turkey that can compete with the world in every field.
Since 2004, the High Council of Science and Technology, which meets regularly under the chairmanship of our Prime Minister, gives hope and confidence to private enterprise, which has broken its shell in R&D and innovation, for more.
Sustainable socio-economic growth and competitive advantage, which we need for prosperity and peace of mind, are only possible through research, development and innovation activities.
This will be achieved through the dissemination of a "national science and technology base" built on university-industry cooperation.
Industries such as automotive and chemistry, supported by medium-developed technologies, have carried Turkey to where it is today in the last 20 years.
However, the largest part of the income from technology transfer-based production goes to the countries that perform the R&D and therefore own the intellectual property rights to the products and processes.
A country cannot make a difference in global competition without conducting its own R&D in industry.
In countries that have caught up with the "Information Age", the science and technology base is unquestionably advanced.
These nations are fueled by the advanced technologies they have developed, and
hence are shifting from industries fueled by medium-developed technologies to fields such as aerospace, electronics, computers and software, communications, pharmaceuticals, precision machinery, etc., which are fueled by advanced technology.
About 80% of these countries' annual growth is driven by technological development.
Our government, which has correctly assessed the critical threshold Turkey has reached in this sense, has established an appropriate science and technology strategy with ambitious targets.
As in the world's largest economies, we are strengthening our R&D strategy, which focuses on priority sectors such as defense, energy, space, health, informatics and similar critical needs with our rapidly increasing investments in recent years, with the goal of excellence in "knowledge-intensive" fields such as biotechnology (genetics, pharmacology, etc.) and materials (nanotechnology, smart materials, etc.) that require expensive and qualified workforce.
In the 21st century, a new world is emerging and technology is shifting eastwards.
Today, we will develop and expand our science and technology base by carrying out R&D projects together with many countries in North Africa, the Middle East and Central Asia, which are rich in natural resources and with which we share common values.
Turkey will build a bridge on the East-West axis with other developed countries in this geography
, and in the medium term, it will be the center of attraction of an ecosystem integrated with and fed by our industry.
Our goal is to create a global competitive advantage in technology with R&D focused on innovation, not imitation, by making a difference in many fields.
and to develop economic value.
The aim is not to save the day, but to build our future.
Under our government, we launched a nationwide science, technology and innovation breakthrough that attracted the attention and interest of the world.
Every year, we have resolutely increased and continue to increase our support for science and technology, which closely affects the national economy, human quality and political power.
Because we know that a strong Turkey will rise on solid foundations laid with knowledge and science.
Turkey is rapidly rising in the league of technology developing countries.
Leaving countries such as Belgium, Denmark, Finland and Singapore behind, Turkey increased its R&D expenditures from TL 2.9 billion to TL 8.5 billion in constant prices between 2002 and 2009,
thus becoming the third country with the fastest increase in R&D expenditures.
We increased public investments in science and technology from 114 million TL in 2002 to 1.644 billion TL in 2011; we increased TÜBİTAK support from 12 million TL in 2002 to 682 million TL in 2010, a 56-fold increase.
In 2011, we aim to increase these supports to 845 million TL.
The share of private sector R&D expenditures in GDP increased by four cards from 28.7% in 2002 to 40% in 2009 with TL 3.4 billion.
While the number of full-time-equivalent (FTE) R&D personnel was 29 thousand in 2002, it doubled two and a half times to 74 thousand in 2009.
The number of scientific publications increased 2.5 times from around 10 thousand in 2002 to more than 25 thousand in 2009.
In recent years, Turkey has become the second country in Europe with the highest number of trademark and industrial design applications and the number of applications exceeded 11,000 in 2010.
Compared to the 8 years before our government, the number of patent and utility model applications for domestic inventions increased by 518% and the number of trademark applications by 161%.
Turkey is rapidly moving towards becoming a country that "produces" technology, not "follows" it.
R&D and the high-skilled employment it creates are spreading across the country.
The number of technoparks, which was 2 in 2002, has now reached 39 across Turkey.
In technoparks where approximately 1,500 companies operate, 12,500 people are engaged in R&D.
Our young people do not have to migrate abroad for fulfilling jobs,
our outstanding minds return to take advantage of the opportunities created.
With the SAN-TEZ program, master's and doctoral studies at universities are transformed into resources to meet the R&D needs of SMEs.
Many industrial enterprises are establishing R&D centers and
developing their own technologies.
The number of R&D centers established in two years has reached 89 and the number of employees has reached 13,500.
We provide 100 thousand TL grant support to bright minds who say "I have a project, I want to turn it into a product".
We supported 180 young techno-entrepreneurs in 2009-2010, 300 in 2011, and 500 young entrepreneurs will be supported every year starting from 2012.
Our aim is to create entrepreneurs who produce high added value and create employment from Turkey's new inventors.
R&D and Innovation 2023
Our Targets
In 2023, it will be able to transform technology into much-needed economic and social benefits,
recognized in international markets for its competencies in medium and high technology,
We dream of a Turkey with strong human capital.
With the success and self-confidence gained in the economy, social policies, law and democracy, science and technology, we will work with greater determination to become one of the 10 largest economies in the 100th year of our Republic.
A strong Turkey is a Turkey that dominates technology.
The science and technology policies we are developing will give a major boost to our economy in the medium and long term.
With this momentum, as AK Party, we will carry our country to the forefront among the world states...
Our 2023 targets are as follows: In 2023, we aim to increase R&D expenditures to 3% of GDP and become one of the leading countries in this field.
Our 2023 target is for two-thirds of all R&D expenditures to be made by the private sector.
We aim to increase the number of FTE R&D researchers to 300 thousand.
We will produce products and services that are in demand in global markets in areas such as automotive, machinery and manufacturing technologies, and information and communication technologies where R&D and innovation capacity is strong.
We will implement needs-based approaches to encourage R&D employment in private sector R&D centers in areas where we need to strengthen our capacity, such as defense, space, energy, health, food and water.
We will initiate domestic missile studies to send live beings into space
and we will make our country capable of putting its own satellite into space.
We will develop our research infrastructure and expertise in priority areas under the umbrella of "national centers of excellence".
We will continue to support curiosity-based, independent research in basic and applied research and experimental development.
Promising to contribute to increasing our competitiveness,
with the potential to generate value,
that utilizes our country's natural resources and human power,
We will encourage R&D and innovation projects that will enable our country to tackle the challenges it is facing or may face.
In our country, we will increase social research aimed at solving social problems
and we will expand these programs for this purpose.
We will prioritize the transformation of research results into commercial products and services.
To this end, in the coming period, we will introduce instruments such as "venture capital" and "investment angels" to increase the contribution of technology-producing SMEs to the economy.
It will reinforce the fabric of our R&D system
We will encourage national and international multi-partner and multi-disciplinary R&D and innovation collaborations involving different specializations that will enable integration into the production-oriented value chain.
To realize the above policies, we will continue to increase the resources allocated to R&D from the state budget.
It is inevitable that our country, which became the 16th largest economy in the world during our government, will turn its face to advanced technology.
The giant steps taken by allocating funds to R&D on a scale unprecedented in the history of the Republic will be continued with new and radical structural reforms.
The amendments to the "Technopark Law" and the "R&D Law" and the fresh blood provided to the real sector at the national level by R&D funds and incentives are a serious start.
Measures will be taken for national coordination and integration to ensure more efficient use of the resources allocated for R&D.
In this mission, which is extremely critical, the powers currently scattered across many institutions will be integrated.
Stakeholders on the supply and demand sides of research funding will be restructured.
A balance will be struck between distributing and using funds and producing knowledge.
For this purpose, efficiency and productivity will be increased by separating the state institutions providing resources and public and private institutions conducting research.
We are now able to meet half of our defense needs, most of which were imported until recently, from our domestic industry.
In our next term in power, we will transfer the experience, know-how and methods we have gained from this transformation in our defense industry to projects that require high technology and large investments, such as energy, transportation, health, environment and communication, in a way that will increase our domestic added value and the quality of our workforce.
We will transfer the technological know-how we will gain here to sectors that produce relatively low added value, such as agriculture, textiles and tourism, and ensure that these sectors, which provide high employment, will be able to maintain their competitive advantage in the world in the future.
Taking into account their contribution to employment, we will strengthen the role of SMEs in the national R&D and innovation system
and ensure that more SMEs engage in R&D and innovation.
microenonomics, Entrepreneurship and Industrial Policies
Our industrialists, traders, tradesmen and artisans are the backbone of both our society and our economy.
Until today, our government has made many breakthroughs for these groups.
From improving the investment climate in general to in-kind and cash support;
from simplifying legislation to reducing red tape,
From the construction of OIZs and CSOs to the construction of their infrastructure;
From reducing tax and insurance premium burdens to easing the interest burden, our government has always stood by the industrialists, traders, tradesmen and craftsmen.
When they ran into difficulties, their debts were restructured and
payment facilities were provided.
The confidence and stability provided has been the biggest support and morale factor for our businessmen and entrepreneurs.
In this way, our businessmen have gained new markets and investment opportunities all over the world.
This understanding and our practices will continue in the coming period.
In our country, there is a high level of entrepreneurship and easy access to financial markets,
We aim for a structure composed of innovative, competitive businesses that have adopted a culture of cooperation.
In industry, it has companies that produce high value-added goods based on R&D, innovation and qualified labor in an outward-oriented structure,
We envision a country that has become the production center of Eurasia in medium and high technology products.
Turkey now has an Industrial Strategy.
This year, we started to implement the Industrial Strategy Document, which covers the years 2011-2014 and consists of 72 actions.
As we implement the actions in the document, we will increase the competitiveness and productivity of our industry,
increase the share of high-tech products in production
and gain a larger share of world exports.
By 2023, we will become the production base of Eurasia in medium and high technology products.
To this end, we will increase the share of medium and high technology sectors in production and exports.
We will ensure the transition to high value-added products in low-tech sectors.
We will increase the weight of companies that can continuously improve their skills in the economy.
To realize these strategies, we will continue to improve the investment and business environment.
In particular, we will reduce the bureaucratic burden by realizing the services carried out by public institutions and organizations in the field of industry electronically.
Based on innovative ideas to ensure sustainable export growth,
high added value,
Production and marketing processes of branded products and services will be supported.
In order to strengthen human resources and capacity, arrangements will be made to enable the private sector to open vocational and technical education schools and institutions
and these institutions will be supported.
SMEs' access to 'financing' resources will be further facilitated.
We will support the technological development of companies.
In this context, emphasis will be given to capacity building efforts carried out by the private and public sectors, especially in areas such as nanotechnology and biotechnology, which require advanced technology.
Infrastructure sectors will be strengthened.
Rail connection lines will be built to organized industrial zones, large factories and ports with private sector contribution.
Regional development-oriented projects for SMEs will be supported.
The sector's strategy documents will guide investors.
We will implement the Machinery, Iron-Steel, Chemicals, Textile, Ready-to-Wear Clothing and Leather, Electrical-Electronics and Ceramic Sector Strategies, which will serve as road maps for investors and sectors.
The automotive road map is ready.
The Automotive Strategy Document, which will be implemented this year, aims to transform Turkey into an automotive production and R&D center.
In addition, new supports and incentives related to new generation automotive production will also be available to manufacturers in the coming period.
The goal is to launch a "domestic automobile" brand.
All kinds of support and incentive mechanisms are being mobilized for Turkey to achieve the "domestic brand" automobile it has been longing for for years.
Work on the domestic automobile, which has remained unfinished until today, will be completed step by step.
It is aimed that our country, which has all kinds of infrastructure and sub-industry, will now have a "Made in Turkey" automobile.
Electric vehicles hit the roads in 2011.
With the regulatory infrastructure completed, electric environmentally friendly vehicles will soon be on the roads.
We encourage the production and use of electric vehicles.
An internationally recognized aircraft factory that produces commercial aircraft, especially for regional flights, will be established
and production will begin.
Production of Unmanned Aerial Vehicles for many purposes such as security, fire, aerial photographs, flood and climate conditions, environmental monitoring, mineral and agricultural capacities will be supported.
OIZ, KSS and specialized OIZs are at the service of investors.
In addition to the existing OIZs (Organized Industrial Zones), at least 20 new specialized OIZs and KSS (Small Industrial Sites) will be established.
Land allocation to investors free of charge will be reintroduced in OIZs with favorable conditions.
Laboratory and test centers at international standards.
In the coming period, accredited laboratories and test centers, which our country and our sectors lack, will be established.
We will improve the laboratory conditions of the Turkish Standards Institute and we will reach a structure that can perform all kinds of tests to ensure that products comply with standards.
No more poor quality, substandard products.
There will be an all-out fight against substandard, poor quality and unsafe products that threaten the safety of life and property of the public.
By activating market surveillance and inspection activities, the production and import of unsafe products will be prevented.
More and cheaper loans for artisans and craftsmen.
We reduced the interest rates of loans provided to our tradesmen and artisans through Halk Bank,
and we have also increased the upper limits of credit.
In 2002, our tradesmen and craftsmen used loans with 47 percent interest rates, whereas today they use loans with 5 percent interest rates for loans of less than 1 year and 6 percent interest rates for loans of more than 1 year.
In 2002, the upper limit for loans was only 5,000 liras, whereas today it is 100,000 liras.
Compared to 2002, the number of artisans benefiting from the credits tripled from 63,520 to 234,680.
In 2002, the amount of credit we extended to our tradesmen was only 153 million TL, while in 2010 it reached 3.5 billion TL.
We protect our artisans.
We prepared and implemented the "Tradesmen and Craftsmen Change-Transformation-Support Strategy Document and Action Plan".
In the coming period, credit and financing conditions of our tradesmen and craftsmen will be improved;
tax, employment and other obligations will be reduced,
training and consultancy services will be improved,
innovation and entrepreneurship will be developed,
infrastructure, clustering and partnership activities will be supported.
A new era begins in commercial life.
With the new Turkish Commercial Code and Code of Obligations prepared in line with EU standards, regulations that will enable our enterprises to operate as strong actors in international competition markets in commercial and economic terms will be put into practice.
Now companies will also have an ID number.
With the Central Registry Registration System Project (MERSIS), each business will now have a separate identification number, as in the citizens' identification number application.
All public institutions and organizations and other persons will be able to access the "accessible" information of businesses through this common key number.
In this way, all transactions related to businesses will be made with the key number.
Company organizations are 5 minutes from your home, office.
With the regulation and e-government applications, our citizens will now be able to establish companies from their homes and offices in just 5 minutes.
Launched as a pilot project in Mersin, the project will be rolled out across Turkey.
Confidence in trade from farm to fork.
With the new Hal Law, a safe period will begin in vegetable and fruit trade from field to table.
Producers will be able to get more for their labor,
consumers' demand for quality and affordable goods will be met, and
wholesale markets and marketplaces will have a modern infrastructure.
By establishing the Hal Registration System, informality will be prevented
and thus all hales will gain the function of a single stock exchange.
License for the warehouse, abundance for the product.
To ensure that agricultural products are stored in healthy environments;
To determine the class, quality and standards;
to facilitate trade by ensuring the representation of ownership with a warehouse receipt;
The Agricultural Products Licensed Warehousing System, whose legal infrastructure has been completed, is being put into practice in order to meet the financing needs of producers, traders and industrialists, to encourage them to turn to quality products and to ensure price stability in agricultural products.
A commodity exchange will be established.
This will facilitate trade based on agricultural products,
contribute to price stability in the markets,
create a significant credit volume for farmers to market the goods they produce, and
establish healthy, reliable and supervised licensed warehouses for agricultural products.
In addition, industrialists will have easy access to raw materials of the quality and quality they want.
More support for more SMEs.
In 2009, we amended the KOSGEB Law.
We paved the way for SMEs in the service and trade sectors to benefit from KOSGEB supports.
While the number of enterprises registered in the KOSGEB database was 4000 in 2002, this figure reached 518 thousand by the end of March.
The total amount of support utilized by SMEs increased 85-fold to TL 1.3 billion.
Turkey is growing with its SMEs.
Training, consultancy, participation in domestic fairs, international business trips, promotion, twinning, employment, energy efficiency, design, industrial property, certification, testing, analysis and calibration activities of SMEs will be supported.
Projects of professional organizations for SMEs will be supported to meet regional and sectoral needs.
Loan interest support for SMEs for the first time.
Under our government, we started to implement loan interest support programs that had never been implemented before, and
we provided SMEs with highly favorable loans.
To date, we have extended 10.4 billion liras of credit to nearly 187 thousand enterprises.
In the coming period, we are also introducing new loan interest support programs for SMEs.
In order to facilitate SMEs' access to finance, the number of SMEs for which the Credit Guarantee Fund provides guarantees will be increased.
Venture capital funds will be expanded.
SMEs to be listed on the stock exchange.
SME stock exchanges will be supported as a new method of access to finance for SMEs.
A new support program will be established by KOSGEB to support the costs of SMEs to go on the stock exchange.
In this context, the cost of SMEs' public offerings will be reduced by 90 percent compared to other companies, and
the remaining 10 percent will be supported by KOSGEB.
KOSGEB goes to the feet of SMEs.
We provide uninterrupted service to SMEs 24/7 through the KOSGEB Call Center (444 1 567).
We will ensure that KOSGEB, which today serves in 49 provinces, serves in 81 provinces.
Support for SMEs with projects from KOSGEB.
Improving the project capacity of SMEs,
150 thousand TL support will be provided to SMEs that bring projects to increase their competitiveness.
R&D, innovation and industrial application projects will be supported up to 1 million TL.
SMEs that cooperate and cooperate will win...
SMEs that combine their strengths and come together to produce 'common solutions' to common problems will be supported.
Entrepreneurship training programs will be expanded for the establishment of successful new businesses, and
new entrepreneurs whose business ideas are accepted will be provided with grant support up to 27 thousand TL and credit support up to 70 thousand TL.
Positive discrimination for successful women entrepreneurs.
Women entrepreneurs will be given 10 percent positive discrimination in support programs.
15 new Business Development Centers will be established to provide a business environment for new entrepreneurs.
As with all our policies, employment is at the center of our policies on the real economy and companies.
The ultimate goal of all these efforts is to create more added value and more employment.
Our enterprises, whose competitiveness is strengthened, whose innovation capacity increases, and which flourish in a favorable investment environment, will provide our people with work and jobs.
Our employment target will be supported not only by macro policies or direct employment policies, but also by microeconomic reforms.
Defense Industry
Our defense industry has made a great progress during the period of our government.
Defense industry products that were previously imported are now largely produced in Turkey.
In this way, our industrial potential is strengthening and foreign dependency is decreasing day by day in terms of our defense industry.
The indigenous products and systems developed by our own companies through R&D and innovation have also contributed greatly to this development.
These products not only meet the needs of our own armed forces, but also
create significant economic value by being exported abroad.
Let us list our major achievements in this field: While our defense sector exports were 247 million dollars in 2002, they reached 1 billion dollars in 2010.
In other words, it has increased about 4 times.
The exports of the Machinery and Chemical Industry Corporation increased from 2 million dollars in 2002 to 33 million dollars in 2010.
Domestic procurement of modern weapons and equipment for the TAF increased from 25% in 2002 to 50% in 2011.
R&D expenditures in the defense industry increased 10-fold from US$ 50 million in 2002 to US$ 500 million in 2010.
While the turnover of our defense industry sector was 1 billion dollars in 2002, this figure increased to 2.3 billion dollars in 2011.
During the period of our government, a total of 24 billion dollars worth of modernization needed by the Turkish Armed Forces was realized, and
90% of these projects were realized with the participation of our country's domestic industry.
Imports of ready-made defense products from abroad dropped to 10%.
In international tenders, qualified work shares are provided to our national industry by applying a definitive 50% off-set application.
It is now stipulated that 20%-50% of tenders awarded to large domestic companies must be awarded to SMEs or Technoparks.
The infantry rifle to be used by our military has been designed in our country and tests have begun.
The concept design of our national tank "Altay" has been completed.
For the first time in Turkey, the entire infrastructure was prepared for the national production of a modern tank.
Serial production of howitzer guns called "Fırtına" and "Panter" were completed and delivered to the Turkish Armed Forces.
These high-tech weapons with a range of 40 km are a great achievement of our domestic industry.
The production of long-range surface-to-surface rockets has been completed, and the development of anti-tank type rockets and ground-to-air missiles continues.
"Anka", an unmanned aerial vehicle capable of flying at an altitude of 10,000 meters and staying in the air for 24 hours, started its test flights.
Thus, Turkey will become the third country, after the US and Israel, to produce unmanned aerial vehicles with strategic capabilities.
In addition, nearly 150 Unmanned Mini Aircraft, which are produced entirely with the original design of our domestic industry, are currently in use by the Turkish Armed Forces.
Turkey's first national corvette warship (MİLGEM) was designed and built entirely in Turkey, its
combat system was developed and installed on the ship by local companies,
and the first ship has started its navigation trials.
All warships required by the Turkish Naval Forces are now being designed and manufactured in Turkey with the predominant participation of Turkish private sector shipyards.
All software and designs of the "Atak" helicopter, our first combat helicopter, have been completed and the prototype production phase has begun.
Production of our first 2.5 m resolution electro-optical intelligence satellite has started.
In addition, the design of our electro-optical satellite, which will have a resolution of better than 1 m, is currently underway.
The mission computer, which is the most important control tool of platforms such as airplanes, helicopters and tanks, was produced with national capabilities and its software was developed in Turkey.
For the first time in Turkey, a jet engine was produced and flights were made.
Our armored vehicles protected against mines were produced in our country and successfully passed the relevant tests.
Deliveries will be completed this year. The
design of the highly maneuverable training aircraft named "Hürkuş" has been completed
and production activities have started.
Flights will start next year.
The helicopter-borne cannon project is progressing rapidly.
The modernization of F4s, which were previously given to a foreign country, was carried out in Turkey, and
Turkey has also become an F16 modernization center.
Similarly, the avionic modernization of the C-130 transport aircraft and T-38 jet training aircraft was carried out with our country's technology.
Turkish defense industry companies have started exporting armored vehicles, air defense systems, rocket systems, simulators, coast guard ships, military communication systems, command and control systems and software to countries around the world.
Malaysia, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates, the Netherlands, Jordan, Pakistan and South Korea are the countries to which our defense industry exported during this period.
Our government, which has increased our domestic production and technology to 50% in terms of weapons, tools, equipment and ammunition used by our military, aims for a Turkey that designs and produces its own national rifle, cannon, tank, helicopter, airplane, unmanned aerial vehicles and satellites in 2023.
All the above-mentioned projects initiated and ongoing during the 8.5 years of our government will be completed in the coming period.
In 2023, Turkey will be a country that exports weapons and military equipment and ammunition produced with self-developed technologies on a large scale.
and will be one of the countries that transform this into a serious economic value.
Exports of Goods and Services
The future of our economy and the welfare of our people are directly related to the success we will achieve in the export of goods and services.
During the period of our government, high growth rates in exports were achieved as domestic producers continued to operate competitively in global markets.
As a matter of fact, we will increase our exports from 36 billion dollars at the end of 2002 to 132 billion dollars before the global crisis to 500 billion dollars in 2023.
To reach this target, we will increase the number of exporters from 50 thousand to 100 thousand.
We will create at least 10 globally recognized brands.
In 2010, we will increase our 0.8% share in world goods trade to 1% in 2015 and reach 170 billion dollars in exports.
In 2023, we will have a 1.5% share in world trade in goods.
With the Export-Oriented Production Strategy; we will ensure sustainable export growth in the medium and long term.
we will realize market and product diversification in exports. we will
ensure the technological development of export-oriented production and increase the added value created domestically.
We will ensure the transition to high value-added products and increase production.
We will increase production in medium-high technology sectors.
We will pave the way for increased new investments in high-tech sectors.
We will support overseas market research and market entry activities.
With the "Input Supply Strategy", we will ensure the security and continuity of input supply,
increase exports of services
and support export-oriented foreign investments.
In this context, we will develop the infrastructure for export-oriented production.
We will move to a more competitive structure in export-oriented production.
We will increase efficiency and productivity in input procurement and
improve our competitiveness.
We will ensure that our industry is less affected by international price fluctuations.
The locomotive sectors of our export strategy will be machinery and automotive, iron and steel, textiles, garments and apparel, electricity and electronics, and chemicals.
Construction, Technical Consultancy and Contracting Services
In line with the high potential of the sector, our main priority is to ensure that construction, technical consultancy and contracting services have a structure that can meet the needs by providing high quality services in the country and all over the world, especially in our region.
The business volume of overseas contracting services, which has reached 25 billion dollars, will be increased to 100 billion dollars in 2023.
We will increase the number of Turkish construction and contracting companies with a turnover of more than 1 billion dollars from 3 today to at least 10 in 2023.
We plan to enter the markets of developed countries and have at least 40 companies among the world's top 225 construction and contracting companies.
We aim to have at least 5 Engineering, Procurement and Construction (EPC) contracting companies.
We aim to increase the share of Turkish companies in consultancy services.
We will ensure more widespread implementation of finance models such as PPP and BOT.
Emphasizing high added value, advanced technology and innovation,
We will emphasize projects that make efficient use of natural resources and increase the share of these projects in the work undertaken.
Our other target for 2023 is to emphasize high value-added, advanced technology and innovation,
to emphasize projects that make efficient use of natural resources and to increase the share of these projects in the work undertaken to at least 30 percent.
Branding will be achieved through the production of original technology and services, and the country will become a leader in the markets of underdeveloped and developing countries.
Exports of building materials, which have reached 23 billion dollars in recent years, will be increased to 100 billion dollars in 2023.
Production quality of construction materials will be improved,
material standards will be established and effective supervision will be carried out.
In order to grow and strengthen the sector, technical consultancy capacity will be increased in terms of design and quality to support developments in the construction sector.
In all the work we will do, we aim to generate more employment at home and abroad and to provide more return to our country.
Customs Services
Strong customs services providing quality services are of great importance for our country's trade, tourism, international relations and integration with its region.
We have made great strides towards honest, fast and effective customs services that are dynamic in preventing and apprehending all forms of smuggling and that do not let smugglers get away with it.
We aim to take new steps for customs that compete with the world, have a high risk perception, have effective internal and external audits, facilitate legal trade, and prevent illegal trade.
Within this framework, our target for 2011 is to make the execution of all customs procedures in a paperless and unmanned environment applicable in all our customs administrations.
By integrating other public administrations related to customs procedures with customs in terms of infrastructure equipment, we are rapidly progressing towards the launch of the "single window" application.
We continue to work rapidly to simplify and accelerate customs procedures through effective cooperation and information sharing at national and international level.
In this framework, we will expand the "Common Customs Gate" and "Simplified Customs Line" applications that we have started to implement.
We will emphasize regional and bilateral cooperation. In
2008, we will develop the "Cooperation of Customs Administrations on the Silk Road Route" project initiated under Turkey's leadership
and continue to lead the customs administrations of the countries in the region in revitalizing the historical Silk Road.
Centralized monitoring of entry-exit movements at all customs gates will be made more widespread and effective,
domestic and international cooperation will be increased in the fight against smuggling, especially fuel, and
efforts to equip all customs gates with modern technology will be completed.
We aim to become a party to the Common Transit Agreement.
Legal and physical infrastructure will be completed in line with this target.
Risk assessments based on objective criteria will be made more widespread through audit activities within the scope of post-control.
Sector-based examinations will be expanded in terms of risk data, and
efficiency in investigations and examinations will be further increased.
The legal infrastructure of the Customs Brokerage profession will be established and
the "Authorized Customs Brokerage" practice, which we have started to implement, will be made more widespread.
Modernization of customs laboratories will continue,
waiting time for product analysis will be minimized and cost increases due to waiting will be prevented as well as more effective surveillance of the environment and human health.
Contraband seized by the competent authorities in relation to smuggling will not be kept in warehouses.
For this purpose, the warehouse needs of the regions will be met and
efforts to accelerate the liquidation of contraband will continue.
The free zones computer application program, which will enable electronic processing of free zone transaction forms accepted as summary declaration, will be completed and put into the service of traders.
Relations between traders and the Undersecretariat of Customs will continue to be improved on the basis of "deterring smugglers and facilitating trade".
For a customs with a proper and strong image, corporate culture building trainings will be continued decisively.
Restructuring and modernization works will continue with the Build-Operate-Transfer model.
Efforts to provide suitable space for customs services, which are being carried out in unsuitable locations in the provinces, will continue.
In particular, coordination in the fight against fuel smuggling will be made more effective and faster, and the
measures identified will be put into effect.
Efforts to establish a common smuggling and customs offenses database for ECO member states will be completed.
Necessary legislative amendments will be made for the obligation of companies carrying passengers to provide information before the race, and
an agreement will be reached with airline companies, agencies, Türk Telekom and GSM operators.
Mobile intervention teams will be increased in the context of effective fight against customs smuggling.
In the context of combating smuggling, the existing data bank will be strengthened and the
number and capacity of combatants will be increased.
Tourism
Allah has endowed our country with an exceptional nature and beauty.
In addition to our natural beauties, sand, sea and sun potential, we have a very rich historical heritage, demographic structure and a unique geographical location, which is the subject of cultural tourism.
Anatolia is a stage where cultures and civilizations parade.
Turkey, the westernmost country in the East and the easternmost country in the West, is still among the world's top 10 in tourism.
In 2002, the number of tourists visiting Turkey was 13.3 million and tourism revenues amounted to USD 11.9 billion.
In 2010, compared to 2002, the number of tourists visiting Turkey increased by 116 percent to 28.6 million, and tourism revenues increased by 74.8 percent to USD 20.8 billion.
In 2010, the number of beds certified by the Ministry of Culture and Tourism reached 610 thousand, up from 396 thousand in 2002.
The number of Culture and Tourism Protection and Development Regions, which was 115 in 2002, reached 222 in 2010.
In the 2002-2010 period, significant increases were recorded in the number of visitors from OECD countries and Eastern European countries.
In 2010, 54.1 percent of foreign visitors to Turkey were from OECD countries and 21.2 percent from CIS countries including the Russian Federation.
In 2010, Germany ranked first with 15.3 percent, Russian Federation ranked second with 10.6 percent and England ranked third with 9.3 percent.
We have achieved significant successes in the last 8.5 years to further develop our tourism.
Let us list some of these: As the needs and trends of the market changed, we made important amendments to the Tourism Incentive Law in 2003.
We prepared and started to implement the Turkey Tourism Strategy 2023 and Action Plan (2007-2013).
In order to improve productivity and job quality according to international criteria
and to determine the level of skills required for employment, we have introduced a certification system in the tourism sector.
The "Draft Law on the Profession of Tourist Guides", which aims to establish professional associations in the tourism sector, was submitted to the Turkish Grand National Assembly on March 24, 2011.
Our 2023 Goals in Tourism
Our 2023 vision is for the tourism sector to be a leading sector in increasing employment and regional development within the framework of a sustainable tourism approach,
is that it has become one of the important centers of attraction for individual tourism as well as "mass" tourism on a world scale.
We will increase the number of tourists from 28.5 million to 50 million in 2023.
We will increase tourism revenue, which is currently 22 billion dollars, to 50 billion dollars.
The current number of 1 million beds will be increased to 1.5 million and the number of marinas from 25 to 65.
Products that appeal to high income groups in tourism (health, religion, congress, fair, culture, golf, thermal, etc.) will be emphasized, and income from alternative tourism types will be increased.
Golf, winter, mountain, thermal, yacht, congress tourism and ecotourism will be expanded by focusing on destination management
and tourism cities will be created.
Turkey will be ensured to be the first race point for thermal tourism in Europe.
With its competitive advantage in terms of price, service quality and geothermal resources, Turkey will become the center of health tourism in 2023.
Our eligible provinces will be branded as cultural cities, and these cities will also be transformed into tourism cities.
Within the scope of the Mediterranean-Aegean Tourism Infrastructure Coastal Management Project (ATAK), we will construct 10 new wastewater treatment plants and connected sewerage lines, 5 solid waste disposal facilities and drinking water lines in 5 settlements.
10 new wastewater treatment plants and connected sewerage lines, 5 solid waste disposal facilities and drinking water lines in 5 settlements are planned to be constructed in 140 Culture and Tourism Protection and Development Regions and Tourism Areas and Centers.
Thermal water transmission lines and sewerage lines of 20 thermal tourism centers and drinking and potable water lines of 5 centers will be constructed.
10 Winter Sports Centers will have mechanical facility construction and 5 centers will have potable water lines.
3 Plateau Tourism Centers will have drinking water and sewerage lines.
In line with the requests received, financial and technical support will continue to be provided for the infrastructure needs of regions with high cultural and tourism potential in 81 provinces.
Within the framework of the Eastern Black Sea Master Plan Implementations, we plan to construct roads, wastewater treatment plants and connected sewerage lines, solid waste disposal facilities and drinking water lines in priority areas in Samsun, Ordu, Giresun, Gümüşhane, Bayburt, Trabzon, Rize, Artvin provinces.
Within the scope of the Touristic Roads Investment Program, we will build 500 km of roads that will provide access to priority regions in terms of culture and tourism.
Efforts will continue to declare areas with significant tourism potential due to their natural and cultural richness as Tourism Centers or Culture and Tourism Protection and Development Regions by developing them together with alternative tourism types.
We will continue the preparation and implementation of zoning plans at all scales, and all kinds of surveys, plans, zoning applications and projects in areas to be newly declared.
We aim to expand our promotion and marketing activities in countries with high development potential.
We will continue to pay special attention to planning, infrastructure and promotional activities to ensure the expansion of tourism across the country and across seasons.
Early Booking Spring Campaign will be continued.
Campaigns will be organized jointly with civil servants and labor unions to provide cheap vacations for public and private sector employees.
Our promotional activities in the digital environment will play an important role in our overall promotional activities.
Agriculture
Since we came to power, we have realized radical changes in every field, increasing the welfare of the country and the happiness of our people.
With the same successful performance in agriculture and food, we have achieved revolutionary works.
First of all, we focused on structural transformations.
From a change in understanding in agricultural support to planned agricultural practices,
From effective food safety to focusing on modern methods in animal husbandry, we have implemented "firsts" in a number of areas based on rational and modern production models, but without neglecting the social dimension.
Our agricultural national income, which was 23.7 billion dollars in 2002, reached 61.8 billion dollars in 2010,
Our exports of agricultural products rose from 4 billion dollars to 12.7 billion dollars.
While Turkey ranked 11th in the world in terms of agricultural economic size in 2002, today it ranks 8th in the world and 1st in Europe.
In our 8.5 years in power, we have introduced nearly 100 new practices in the field of agriculture.
Agricultural subsidies will increase productivity and quality in production,
health and rural development were reorganized to take health and rural development as a basis.
52 new agricultural subsidies were introduced.
We increased the contribution of the agricultural sector to national income by 157%.
Today, agricultural subsidies, which have increased by 255% compared to the past, will continue to be increased in the coming period.
For the first time under our government, diesel oil support was provided
and chemical fertilizer support was paid directly to farmers for the first time.
The loans extended to farmers by Ziraat Bank and Agricultural Credit Cooperatives were increased 30 times.
Interest rates on agricultural loans, which in the past had become a huge financial burden on the agricultural sector with their high rates, were reduced from 59% to 5%.
Interest rates were also zeroed for livestock and drip-sprinkler irrigation investments.
Special support projects were launched to ensure that our producers use machinery and equipment under more favorable conditions.
Over 78 thousand mechanization projects used in agriculture received 50% grant support.
These supports will continue to increase in the coming period.
Turkey's geographical situation necessitates small ruminant breeding.
Historical facts also reveal this.
In addition to meat, milk and wool production, sheep and goat breeding, which has a very important role in many areas such as the utilization of pastures, combating erosion and protecting the ecological balance, has unfortunately declined with urbanization.
Based on this fact, the incentives and supports we have initiated for the establishment of modern and professional enterprises in sheep and goat breeding, which were included in the scope of support for the first time during our government, will continue to increase.
An important obstacle was overcome in the export of animal products to EU countries.
For the first time in the history of the Republic, the Thrace Region was vaccinated against Foot and Mouth Disease.
We aim to extend this status, which has been approved by relevant international organizations, to all regions of Turkey in the coming period.
Within the scope of the fight against animal diseases, it is also aimed to raise the standards to the international level.
rehabilitation of animal markets and slaughterhouses will be completed.
For the first time in 80 years, we initiated Turkey's transition to realistic agricultural production planning.
Accordingly, an agricultural inventory was prepared on which sustainable agricultural policies will be based.
With the Turkish Agricultural Basins Production and Support Model, it has been determined which crops can be produced in each village in Turkey and with how much yield.
In the coming period, subsidies will be implemented according to this model in all regions and for all products.
Again, in coordination with the Agricultural Basins, support, incentives and development projects will be implemented for Organized Production Zones in areas such as greenhouse cultivation, fruit growing and animal husbandry according to the characteristics of the regions.
In addition, the use of solar energy and other alternative energy sources, especially geothermal resources, in agriculture will be encouraged in Specialized Production Zones.
We are preventing the division of land through inheritance, which has been one of the main problems of the agricultural sector for nearly 80 years.
We have started the process to eliminate this problem through legal and structural changes.
Accordingly, while the consolidation of divided lands was limited to 450 thousand hectares in the 41 years before 2002, it was increased to over 3 million hectares in the 8 years under our governments.
New improvements will also be implemented in this area
and consolidation will be completed in 2023.
For the first time under our government, the way was paved for long-term leasing of pastures to the private sector on condition that they are rehabilitated.
Significant improvements were made in the market and marketing mechanism, which constitutes one of the most problematic areas of the agricultural sector.
During our period in power, important steps were taken in agricultural organization
and support was increased.
Product-based producer associations and product councils were established.
The human and natural resource potential in rural areas was addressed with a sustainable development approach, and significant progress was achieved in improving the working and living conditions of the rural population.
Regarding rural development, which constitutes one of the three important elements of the agricultural sector, we launched the biggest rural development move in Turkey's history.
On-site evaluation of our farmers' products
Over 3000 agricultural SMEs started their activities with 50% grants paid to agricultural industrial facilities established to increase their income by increasing their added value.
Under our government, domestic production in seed production was increased.
In the last 8.5 years, our seed production has increased from 145 thousand tons to 498 thousand tons with an increase of 243%.
Again, our government provided yield-oriented support to the seed sector.
The world's third largest Seed Gene Bank was established in Ankara.
This put an end to the information pollution that was circulating and harming Turkish agriculture and seed production.
In the new period, Turkey will be among the most important seed exporter countries in addition to providing sufficient seeds to its farmers.
International Agricultural Technology and Training Centers were established under our government.
With these centers, our producers have easy access to and use of modern technology opportunities.
174 Alo Food, National Food Reference Laboratory and new food inspection services and systems were established.
In the EU process, the Food Chapter was opened for negotiations.
Thus, the approval, registration and control procedures of food production, sales and mass consumption places have started to be carried out in line with EU standards.
The food hygiene, quality, control and inspection activities, the fight against adulteration and additives, and the fight against adulteration and additives were expanded and the citizens of the Republic of Turkey were provided with the food consumption standards of the citizens of the European Union countries.
Our 2023 Targets in Agriculture
As we move towards 2023, which is our horizon line; feeding its population with sufficient, quality and reliable food,
further improving its position as a net exporter of agricultural products,
increased competitiveness,
Our main goal is to become a country that has a say in agriculture in the world and in its region.
By 2023, we will increase our agricultural national income to 150 billion dollars,
We aim to increase our exports of agricultural products to 40 billion dollars.
We aim to be among the top 5 countries in the world in terms of agricultural economic size in 2023.
In order to directly contribute to the competitiveness of agricultural production, a total of 8.5 million hectares of irrigable land, of which 5.4 million hectares are currently in operation, will be opened to irrigation by 2023.
Savings in irrigation
and modern technologies to protect the soil will be used throughout Turkey.
The Ministry of Agriculture and Food, which is on the agenda of the Parliament, will be established.
With this new structure, taking into account the EU harmonization process, services related to food, crop production, animal husbandry, rural development and aquaculture will be organized on a subject basis and a more effective service organization will be established.
In order to prevent our producers from being negatively affected by the possible fluctuations in world prices in the coming period, support for agricultural inputs used by our farmers will continue to increase.
Public-private sector cooperation will be continued for the provision and production of inputs used in plant and animal production needed by our farmers in publicly owned agricultural enterprises (TİGEM), which was initiated during our government.
In the coming period, we will ensure that producer unions and other farmer organizations work more effectively.
Thus, our farmers will be specialized by taking a more effective role in the marketing of their products and in the execution of agricultural support transactions.
Arrangements will be made to solve the problem of productivity and ownership in pastures, along with regulations that will enable livestock investments.
A series of measures will be implemented to create "ideal market" conditions for agricultural products of special importance for our country, such as meat and milk, cereals, legumes, tea, hazelnuts and other traditional export products.
In this framework; controlling and balancing price fluctuations in favor of producers and consumers,
protecting the common interests of producers and consumers;
examples Market regulation mechanisms that are available in the EU and developed market economies will be established and improved.
In this direction, marketing and production activities in the sector, which have so far been managed by different institutions and organizations, will be unified and organized under the same roof.
3000 new agricultural facilities will be opened in the 2011-2015 period.
Thus, in addition to the 30,000 jobs currently created in these facilities, 30,000 more citizens will have jobs.
With the new Hal Law to be put into practice, a safe period will begin in the vegetable and fruit trade from field to table.
Producers will be able to get more for their labor.
Consumer demand for sufficient, high quality, reliable, healthy and affordable goods will be met.
Costs on vegetables and fruits will be reduced,
food safety will be ensured,
wholesale markets and market places will have a modern infrastructure.
Hal Registration System will be established and informality will be prevented
and thus all states will function as a single exchange.
Our goal is to integrate our genetic resources with biotechnology and make our country a leading agricultural technology transfer center in its region.
Agricultural training and extension services will be diversified and improved in order to ensure Food Security from Farm to Table and to meet the needs of farmers in terms of information and technical methods in a timely and adequate manner.
When we came to the government, Turkey ranked 5th among EU member countries in aquaculture production, but with the support we started, we reached 3rd place among EU member countries in 2010.
In the coming period, we have set our target as first place.
Energy and Mining
Diversification of energy resources for a developing and changing Turkey,
An energy supply policy that will meet the needs of industrialists and all kinds of producers in sufficient quantity and under conditions of competition with the world is inevitable.
On the one hand, the Ak Parti government has mobilized domestic resources and capabilities in the field of energy, and on
the other hand, it has turned Turkey into an important base and crossroads of the region's energy resources.
Much progress has been made in 8.5 years to provide our people with more abundant and cheaper energy, including nuclear energy, without compromising environmental sensitivity.
Many initiated projects are ongoing.
Let us summarize the great breakthroughs of our government in the field of energy:
Many laws have been enacted for energy production, supply, diversification and prevention of energy waste
and many projects have been implemented.
With agreements with many international energy companies, Turkey is trying to take its place in international energy competition.
Under our government, Turkey has become an energy hub and corridor.
The Baku-Tbilisi-Ceyhan (BTC) Crude Oil Pipeline was put into operation on June 4, 2006.
Not only Azeri oil, but also Kazakh and Turkmen crude oil is transported to the world markets via this line by tankers after Ceyhan.
Since 2007, the Azerbaijan-Turkey Natural Gas Pipeline (Shandeniz Project, Baku-Tbilisi-Erzurum) not only supplies Turkey with the natural gas it needs, but also
partially meets the EU's needs.
With the Turkey-Greece Natural Gas Pipeline, the first leg of the Southern Europe Gas Ring Project was completed and
Turkey became a bridge supplier of natural gas.
The Nabucco Project Intergovernmental Agreement was signed in Ankara on July 13, 2009.
The Turkey-Bulgaria-Romania-Hungary-Austria Nabucco gas pipeline will be 3300 km long and will cost an estimated €8 billion.
The Arab Gas Pipeline Project, which aims to transport Egyptian natural gas to our country via Jordan and Syria and to Europe via our country, will be 1,236 km.
The 1st and 2nd phases have been completed and the 3rd phase is halfway completed.
A memorandum of understanding was signed on October 15, 2009 for the transportation of Iraqi natural gas through Turkey.
An amendment agreement extending the duration of the Kirkuk-Yumurtalık Crude Oil Pipeline Agreement by 20 years was signed in Baghdad on September 19, 2010.
Our 2023 Targets in Energy
In 2023, to be able to supply the energy required for economic development and social progress continuously, securely and at minimum cost,
The main objective is to become a country that ensures energy supply security by increasing resource and technology diversity in energy production.
In this framework, it will utilize nuclear energy in electricity generation and make maximum use of domestic and renewable energy resources,
minimizing waste and the environmental impact of energy,
A competitive energy system that strengthens its strategic position in international energy trade will be established.
Under AK Party rule, our country is becoming a secure energy hub between Asia, Europe and Africa.
Building the future in the field of energy with giant projects such as Nabucco, Southern European Gas Ring, Baku-Tbilisi-Ceyhan Oil Pipeline, Arabian Natural Gas Pipeline, Shandeniz I and Il Natural Gas Pipeline, Turkey aims to realize the following actions in the energy and natural resources sector in the coming period: In order to increase supply security, a balanced diversification of primary energy resources will be achieved.
The share of domestic and renewable energy resources in the production system will be maximized.
Investments in electricity transmission, which will remain under public ownership, will be carried out in a way to maintain the security and reliability of the electricity system.
In order to ensure long-term energy supply security, which is an important element of our competitiveness, Turkey's connections to international energy networks will be strengthened.
Necessary infrastructure will be established for electricity trade with other countries, which will contribute to increasing supply security.
Efforts will be made to establish an "Energy Exchange" in Turkey.
Adequate emergency supply stocks of oil and natural gas will be established.
Eight nuclear reactors with a total capacity of 10,000 MW will be commissioned in Mersin Akkuyu and Sinop.
In addition, the construction of 4 reactors with a capacity of 5,000 MW will begin.
Construction of 18,500 MW power plants will be completed to convert additional coal resources in the Afşin-Elbistan Basin and Konya Karapınar Coal Basin into electricity.
By utilizing almost all of our hydroelectric capacity, 20,000 MW of additional power will be provided
, thus doubling our installed hydroelectric capacity by 2.5 times.
In this context, important projects such as Ilısu, Yusufeli, Boyabat, Alpaslan 2 will be completed.
By maximizing the benefit from wind energy, our installed capacity, which is currently 1,694 MW, will be increased to 20,000 MW.
With the steps taken towards the utilization of our renewable energy resources, at least 600 MW of geothermal-based electricity power and at least 3000 MW of solar power plants will be established.
We will be among the top 10 countries in the field of electricity generation from solar energy.
Our main target for renewable energy resources is to ensure that the share of these resources in electricity generation is at least 30% by 2023.
In addition to these, a total of 8,000 MW of additional installed capacity will be provided with the completion of imported coal and natural gas based power plant investments, some of which are currently licensed and some of which are under construction.
With all these investments, our installed capacity, which is currently 50,423 MW, will be increased 2.5 times to 125,000 MW in 2023.
As of the end of 2010, our Turkish Electricity Transmission System, consisting of 49,104 km of power transmission lines, will reach 60,717 km with 11,613 km of additional line facilities.
Our transmission transformer power, which was 98,996 MVA as of the end of 2010, will be increased by 59,464 MVA to 158,460 MVA in 2023.
Loss and leakage rate in electricity distribution will be reduced to below 5 percent.
Smart grid applications will be implemented in electricity generation and distribution.
In order to ensure the security of natural gas supply, storage investments, particularly Tuz Gölü storage facilities, will be completed in order to increase our storage capacity from 2.6 billion m3 to 5 billion m3 and daily back production capacity from 17 million m3/day to 70 million m3/day.
Natural gas supply and network will be extended to every corner of the country.
The projects on the agenda to increase the oil and natural gas supply security of our country and Europe will be realized.
In 2023, we will need over 1,250,000 barrels of crude oil and over 200 million m3 of natural gas per day.
Our target is to fully meet the oil and natural gas needs of our country in 2023 with domestic and foreign production.
Production of boron chemicals and equivalent products, which was 1 million 400 thousand tons in 2010, will be increased to 5.5 million tons in 2023.
Boron exports will be increased to 800 million dollars in 2011 and 2.5 billion dollars in 2023.
Revenues from boron exploitation will provide more than 10 billion dollars to the Treasury by 2023.
In 2023, the need for coking coal for the iron and steel industry in Turkey will be largely met by TTK.
The amount of drilling for mineral exploration, which is currently 1 million meters per year, will be increased to a total of 5 million meters per year in 2023.
Our apparent lignite reserves, which are currently 11.5 billion tons, will be increased to 20 billion tons.
Our country's mining production in 2010 reached 10 billion dollars.
Our mineral raw material exports amount to approximately 3.7 billion dollars per year.
In 2023, mining sector exports will increase to 20 billion dollars.
70 percent of the geothermal potential will be made visible
and transferred to investors.
In this context, 2 million meters of geothermal drilling will be carried out.
Within the scope of hot dry rock exploration, MTA will carry out 500 thousand meters of geothermal drilling.
Energy intensity, the main indicator of energy efficiency, will approach the OECD average of 0.18.
By 2023, Turkey will be in a position to conduct research in the seas with its own ships using advanced technology.
Transportation, Communication, Information and Communication Technologies
In the 8.5 years of AK Party's rule, one of the areas that our government has given the most importance and invested in is undoubtedly transportation and communication.
Exemplary moves were made in highways, railways, airlines and maritime routes, and in all areas of activity in the sectors.
Turkey has changed its shell in the field of communication.
The widespread use of information technologies together with communication technologies started in this period.
Motorways, dual carriageways, airports and airports, high-speed train lines, sea ports and shipyards, modern communication and information technologies are all part of the AK Party governments' record of success.
The AK Party has attached importance to the development of transportation infrastructures, which are the lifeblood of major economies, and thus to increasing the competitiveness of our country.
From agriculture to textiles, from heavy industry to technology hubs, transportation and ICT are key components of every sector.
Studies project that the demand for transportation will grow 2-fold by 2023 and 4-fold by 2050.
The main strategic objective of our Party is to meet these demands on time and with high quality infrastructure and services.
In the 21st century, we have realized a rapid growth in access to and use of information and communication technologies, which have become an important part of our lives and are now a human right.
The spread of broadband access, the speed of mobile communication and the growth of the sector have reached a proud level for our country in the last 8.5 years.
On the way to the 2023 target, the AK Party is committed to the development of a society that makes effective use of information and communication technologies;
speeding up public services;
making citizens' lives easier with innovative practices;
carries out its activities with an understanding that offers service to everyone, everywhere.
During the period of our government, great importance was attached to the development of basic infrastructure projects by utilizing alternative sources of finance.
and TL 15 billion through public-private partnerships, totaling TL 93 billion in transportation and communication investments.
During our period, the share of transportation in public investments increased 4-fold.
While making all these investments, public-private sector cooperation models were developed and projects were realized without burdening the state budget.
The same approach will be pursued more vigorously in the coming years.
Divided Roads Save Lives.
We divided roads and united lives.
Highways, which are of great importance for economic development and prosperity, are an infrastructure that is closely related to other sectors.
Due to this importance, during the AK Party period, we increased our divided road network by 2.2 times from 6,101 km in 2002 to 19,657 km.
We increased the number of provinces connected by divided roads from 6 to 74.
Thanks to the divided roads we built, we saved 155 million hours of time and 936 million liters of fuel per year.
The monetary equivalent of this is approximately 7 billion TL.
Road Transportation.
With the Road Transport Law, we launched a new era of reform in the road transportation sector.
We have implemented new regulations based on EU standards such as professional competence and reputation, and financial competence.
With the new practice, we increased the number of authorized companies from 4176 to 492,962 and the number of vehicles from 78,786 to 1,054,545.
Thus, by institutionalizing the sector, we have created the necessary basis for a supply-demand balance in the sector and for the healthy development of the sector.
End Vehicle Inspection on Paper.
A total of 264 stations belonging to real and legal persons were put into service to carry out technical inspections of motor vehicles traveling on the highway in a more efficient and healthy manner.
The number of inspections at these stations increased five-fold, reaching a total of 14.5 million by the end of 2010.
In addition, a new practice was introduced and 30,000 old and dangerous vehicles that had completed their economic life were withdrawn from the market.
Effective Tonnage Control.
While 20 thousand vehicles were inspected for tonnage annually, we increased this figure to 7 million.
In this way, we saved 2 billion TL a year in road maintenance and repair costs.
More importantly, we have contributed to a significant reduction in accidents and loss of life and property on our roads that turn into a file ridge or train tracks due to [heavy tons].
As a result of new highways, road improvements, vehicle inspections, tonnage controls and the withdrawal of old vehicles from traffic, the number of fatalities per 100 million vehicle-kilometers decreased by 32% compared to 2002 to 3.91.
Now it is the turn of Double Railways.
While 942 km of new lines were built between 1950 and 2002, in the last 8.5 years, we have built 1076 km of new railways,
renewed 5449 km of roads and laid the foundations for much larger investments. With the
lines under construction in Ankara, Istanbul, Izmir, Sivas, Bursa and many other provinces, we have started to weave our country with railway networks from one end to the other.
Our goal is to move from double roads to double railways.
We have started working on this.
In addition to the new high-speed train lines being built, we are also transforming our existing railways into double-track railways.
High Speed Train on the Road.
Turkey became the 8th country in the world to switch to high speed train operation.
With the Ankara-Eskişehir-İstanbul High-Speed Train Project, Ankara High-Speed Train Station, Ankara-Konya High-Speed Train Project, Ankara-Sivas High-Speed Train Project, Bursa-Bilecik High-Speed Train Project, Ankara-Adana High-Speed Train Project and other projects, Turkey is getting the additional railways it has long longed for.
In railways, which is one of the most important infrastructures in freight transportation all over the world; the amount of freight transported increased by 51% during the period of our government
and reached a transportation capacity of approximately 11 billion tonsxkm.
In addition, domestic capacity for locomotive, wagon and railroad production has been established and our domestic railway industry has become a sector that both serves our country and exports abroad.
The Air Way is the People's Way.
One of the best examples of our government's moves towards economic growth and development can be seen in the field of air transportation.
During our rule, we increased the total annual passenger capacity of airports from 49.5 million to 165 million.
Ankara Esenboğa, Istanbul Atatürk and Sabiha Gökçen, Antalya, Izmir Adnan Menderes and Muğla Dalaman Airports were constructed with the BOT model without the use of public funds
and have become among the most modern airports not only in Turkey but also in the world.
Not only were these important airports built without the use of public funds, but they also provided the public with an additional 10 billion dollars in public funds through long-term leasing after the contract.
The AK Party government also activated idle airports.
We increased the number of active airports from 25 to 46.
We increased the number of international destinations from 60 to 175.
During our period, the number of domestic passengers increased 6-fold to 51 million, while the total number of passengers using airlines more than tripled from 33.7 million to 103 million.
While the average growth rate in world aviation is 5% per year, the trend in our country is very striking, growing exponentially every year.
This breakthrough shows that the airline has become the way of our people under the AK Party rule.
Seafaring Country Seafaring Nation.
With the support we provided, the number of shipyards increased from 37 to 70.
The annual construction capacity was increased from 500 thousand DWT to 3.6 million DWT.
Thus, our country, which was 23rd in the world ranking in the shipbuilding industry before our government, has risen to 6th place in the world today.
With the removal of SCT on marine diesel fuel, the sector has been supported by more than 2.2 billion TL to date.
In our country, which is surrounded by seas on three sides and is one of the most beautiful intersections of the world in this field, our government has taken important steps to utilize this potential in the field of maritime.
Total cargo handled increased from 190 million tons to 366 million tons.
The number of cruise ships visiting our ports increased from 821 to 1460 and the number of passengers increased 4.4 times to 1.8 million.
We increased the number of fishing harbors by 30% to 210 and yacht mooring capacity by 58% to 15,000.
The Future Will Come with Informatics.
The information and communication technologies sector gained momentum in the 1990s across the world, but with a 10-year delay in Turkey, during the AK Party period. The
market size in this field, which was 10 billion dollars in 2002, reached 35 billion dollars in 2010.
In this context, broadband usage, one of the key indicators, increased from 19 thousand subscribers to 8.5 million subscribers, while
the number of mobile phone subscribers rose from 23 million to 62 million in the same period.
By establishing a universal service budget and legislation, comprehensive projects were realized to provide telephone and broadband internet access to all villages.
E-Government Makes Life Easier.
We have moved from "criticized state" to "accessed state".
During this period, our country was introduced to e-government applications, and
hundreds of public services started to be provided electronically on a 24/7 basis in a secure and fast manner.
With the opening of the E-Government Gateway, millions of citizens were reached.
In line with the objectives of achieving an information society, public internet access centers were established, e-commerce became widespread, and citizens started to use computers widely.
Again, we provided broadband internet access to all schools during our period in power.
With the number portability application, we made it easier for our citizens, and with the mobile device registration system, we launched the fight against stolen and illegal phones.
PTT Changes, Services Diversify.
In the last 8.5 years, there has been a major transformation in PTT and postal operations, and banking and many public and private sector services have become accessible through PTT offices.
A comprehensive and high quality service network has been established across Turkey, and
a superior service system in the fields of cargo, postal, banking and public services has been realized to the most remote points of our country.
As a result, PTT's monthly transactions increased 9.3-fold from 2 million in 2002 to 21.2 million.
Our 20Z3 Targets in Transportation
Our 2023 vision for transportation; contributing to the competitiveness of our country and improving the quality of life of society;
safe, economical, comfortable, fast and environmentally friendly services,
to build a sustainable transportation system.
Priority will continue to be given to projects aimed at ensuring the balance between transportation modes.
Turkey will become a world-leading logistics hub with its ports, free zones, logistics centers and all transportation systems between East and West, North and South.
In addition to the existing ones, large-scale Logistics Centers will be established in at least 16 locations in Turkey.
Research centers will be established to develop and produce technologies and systems used in the transportation sector with domestic facilities,
cooperation with universities will be ensured and the use of domestic products developed in transportation projects will be further expanded.
Systems providing services in all transportation sectors will be developed in a citizen-oriented manner and will
be easily accessible and usable with different technologies.
With the awareness that the importance of security is increasing day by day, transportation infrastructure (highways, airways, railways, maritime) will be continuously monitored by electronic systems
and security measures will be increased.
The share of containerized freight transportation will be increased and
freight transit between transportation modes will be facilitated.
From customs to logistics bases, maritime, roads and railways, freight marking and transit document systems will be marked with standardized smart electromagnetic tags.
operators will be able to transparently monitor the traffic of their own freight across the country.
Highway Sector
The total length of divided highways will be increased to 26,000 km in 2015, 31,000 km in 2019 and 36,500 km in 2023.
750 km of new highways will be constructed by 2015, 3400 km by 2019 and 5275 km by 2023, bringing the total length of highways to 7500 km.
18,000 km of Bituminous Hot Mix Asphalt (BSK) will be constructed by 2015, 38,000 km by 2019 and 58,000 km by 2023, bringing the total length of our highway network to 70,000 km.
By 2019, the Istanbul Road Tube Crossing, the 3rd Bridge to the Bosphorus, the Istanbul-İzmir Motorway and Gulf Crossing, the Istanbul-Çanakkale-Tekirdağ Motorways will be completed, and by 2023 the Çanakkale Bosphorus Crossing will be completed.
Due to Turkey's position as a transit country and increasing traffic demand, the private sector's participation in new investments will be ensured by constructing highways and facilities according to the BOT model.
Different financing models with public contributions for highway projects will be implemented by using public-private sector cooperation in improving the physical and geometric standards of state roads as well as highways.
Transportation Master Plan and city transportation plans will be integrated.
Urban transportation and intercity transportation will be designed to work together, and
city crossings will be made easier for our citizens.
Vehicle registration and control systems, telematics applications and real-time highway management information systems will be developed.
Important industrial, tourism and agricultural regions will be connected to each other via fully access-controlled highways as well as semi-access controlled expressways.
Port and Organized Industrial Zones will be connected by divided roads.
North-South corridors connecting our ports in the Black Sea and Mediterranean regions with each other and with our land border gates will be improved.
Accident black spots on highways will be eliminated.
Construction of divided roads in our existing road network, improvement of standards on two-lane roads
The quality of service in transportation will be improved through the use of Intelligent Transportation Systems (ITS) and Traffic Management Systems that ease traffic flow.
Projects to prevent exhaust gas emission and noise at highway city crossings and arrangements to encourage the use of bicycles will be made.
In addition to adequate signage and information within the framework of Traffic Safety, emphasis will be placed on traffic control and education of road users.
Loss of life in traffic accidents will be reduced to EU averages.
The number of professionally qualified, conscious and educated commercial vehicle drivers will be increased,
vehicle inspection infrastructure will be improved, and the
number and efficiency of modem roadside inspection stations will be increased.
In order to reduce the existing idle capacity in the road transportation market and to contribute to the reduction of environmental pollution, the practice of withdrawing vehicles that have reached the end of their economic and technical life from traffic will be continued as it has been until today.
Efforts to solve problems encountered in international transportation such as quotas, tolls and border crossings will be continued effectively,
liberalization of road transport has been achieved,
A transport market where quotas and other quantity restrictions are eliminated on a reciprocal basis will be established.
Railway Sector
High Speed Railway line will be increased to 3500 km by 2015, 6500 km by 2019 and 10,000 km by 2023.
1300 km of new conventional railway lines will be constructed until 2015, 2600 km until 2019 and 4000 km until 2023.
According to the priority order to be determined based on traffic density, 4000 km of lines will be electrified and signalized by 2015 and a total of 8000 km by 2019.
At least 500 km of existing railway network will be renewed annually and its standards will be raised.
The railway sector will be liberalized,
The private sector will be allowed to participate in the sector as an operator.
Renovation of existing stations and stations will be completed
and new high speed train stations will be built.
Train stations will be in line with the city architecture and connected to urban public transportation systems.
Development of the rail vehicle industry will be ensured.
In this context, development of street tram, metro, light metro and high speed train technologies
Incentives and support for production will be provided.
Management information systems covering all railways will be completed.
Luxury wagons, alternative payment systems, modern tariffs and campaigns will ensure full competition with other sectors as a fast, safe and comfortable alternative to travel by railways.
Access and communication facilities in passenger trains will be increased and telephone and internet access will be uninterrupted on train lines.
Railway connections will be built to Organized Industrial Zones, factories and ports.
Suburban lines will be brought to metro standard.
Mainline and regional railway network will be integrated with urban transportation systems.
Priority will be given to projects for the formation of new corridors and connections that will connect our country to the countries in the region by rail, such as Istanbul-Kars-Tbilisi-Baki, Kavkaz-Samsun-Basra, Southeast Asia, Istanbul-Basra, Istanbul-Halab-Mecca, Istanbul-Halab-North Africa.
Aviation Industry
By 2023, we will have our own fully indigenous, regional airplane.
Thus, while the world was still discussing the construction of airplanes in the 1930s, the unfinished dream of Nuri Demirağ, who built the first airplane in our country, would be completed.
Every citizen, wherever he or she is in our country, whichever direction he or she wants to travel by plane, will arrive at an airport in less than an hour.
With the new airports to be built, the current 165 million passenger capacity will be increased to 400 million passengers/year.
The number of passengers traveling by air will increase from 103 million to 350 million annually.
Airports will be integrated with all modes of transportation.
One airport with a capacity of at least 60 million passengers/year, 2 airports with a capacity of 30 million passengers/year and 3 airports with a capacity of 15 million passengers/year will be built in Istanbul.
Turkish Civil Air Transportation fleet structure will be doubled to 750 aircraft, 200 of which will be regional aircraft.
By 2019, master plans will be made for all existing airports, and all existing and future airports will be made at international standards,
free of obstructions, and
measures will be taken for emission and noise pollution.
At least 2 airports with the characteristics of Aircraft Maintenance and Training Centers will be built in order for Turkey to host a huge fleet of 5000 aircraft expected to be formed in the Black Sea, Caucasus, Middle East and Mediterranean Geography in the next 10 years with maintenance centers.
By 2015, all airports will be made "Barrier-Free" and "Green Airport" status.
Turkish Space Agency will be established by 2015.
Centralized policy determination and coordination and international representation structure will be improved in all space activities carried out and to be carried out in Turkey. By 2015
, domestic production of satellites such as Communication Satellites, Observation Satellites, Positioning Satellites and Meteorology Satellites will be ensured, and
for this purpose, the Satellite Assembly, Integration and Test Center (UMET) will be put into operation.
Expert human resources will be trained in these fields
and research centers will be established in universities.
By 2019, our satellite fleet in space will be increased to a total of 7 satellites, at least 2 of which will be domestically produced, and the geography from the West coast of the USA to the East coast of China will be covered.
By 2015, in order to develop alternative tourism, construction of small airports and/or heliports in regions far from airports will be supported, and
air transportation vehicles that can land on seas, lakes and water basins will be expanded.
Aviation will be popularized and
amateur aviation will be supported.
Maritime Sector
The main ports will be connected to the rail network.
At least one main transshipment port will be established in each region along the Mediterranean, Aegean, Marmara and Black Sea coasts.
By 2019, at least one port will be among the top 10 largest ports in the world.
Port infrastructure for container transportation will be expanded to handle 23 million TEUs by 2015, 27 million TEUs by 2019 and 32 million TEUs by 2023.
The handling rate of cabotage cargo handled at Turkish ports will be increased from 2% to 6% by 2015, 10% by 2019 and 20% by 2023, and the
total cabotage cargo handled at Turkish ports will be increased from 13% to 17% by 2015, 23% by 2019 and 30% by 2023.
Port infrastructure will be expanded to handle 270 million tons of general and dry bulk cargo by 2015, 380 million tons by 2019 and 500 million tons by 2023, and 254 million tons of liquid bulk cargo by 2015, 300 million tons by 2019 and 350 million tons by 2023.
All of our ports will be equipped with electronic information systems.
By 2019, Turkey will be one of the most important centers in the Mediterranean in terms of maintenance and repair shipyards and capacity.
Turkey's shipbuilding capacity will be increased from 3.6 million DWT to 5 million DWT by 2015, 8 million DWT by 2019 and 10 million DWT by 2023.
By 2023, the success achieved in the shipbuilding industry, especially in the field of small and medium tonnage chemical tankers and product tankers, will be maintained, and
the infrastructure and technology to build specialized ships such as LNG, LPG, Car Carrier, Cruise, Ro-Ro, Ro-Pax will be acquired.
Our yacht mooring and accommodation capacity, which is 15 thousand today, will be increased to 23 thousand by 2015, 35 thousand by 2019 and 50 thousand by 2023, and
the number of marinas will increase to 100.
Out of 210 fishing harbors, 15 by 2015, 30 by 2019 and 55 by 2023 will be converted into marinas or joint use models.
Two new cruise ports will be built by 2015, four by 2019 and seven in total by 2023
, and at least three ports serving cruise ships will be equipped with the infrastructure to serve as main ports.
Pipelines Sector
An administrative unit will be established to set policy, regulate and supervise pipeline transportation.
A master plan will be prepared for the transportation of energy through pipelines and also for the transportation of other products through pipelines.
Refueling at the main airports will be carried out by pipeline transportation.
Apart from energy, pipeline technology used in the transportation of other unitized products, especially minerals, will be brought to our country.
Logistics bases will be established outside city centers, and supplies will be transported via pipelines.
Transportation of solid waste and other urban wastes to storage and processing centers via pipelines will be initiated.
Projects for transmission of solid waste and other urban wastes to storage and processing centers via pipelines will be implemented.
Research and development activities in the field of energy and other transportation by pipelines will be supported, and
expertise and capacity building in this field will be ensured in Turkey.
Communication, Information and Communication Technologies
Fixed and mobile communication and mobile broadband access infrastructure will be expanded to cover the entire population.
High-speed broadband access infrastructure will be rolled out across the country
and the number of subscribers will reach 15 million by 2015, 22 million by 2019 and 30 million by 2023.
Turkey will become a hub for fiber interconnection between countries in the region.
With the Informatics Valley project, leading foreign companies in the field of information technologies will be attracted to our country,
domestic companies will be opened to foreign markets
and our country will become the world's leading production and operation center.
Entrepreneurship in the internet and IT sector will be developed.
R&D activities for domestic IT products will be supported.
The use of domestic products and services in the IT sector will be increased to 25% by 2019 and 50% by 2023.
e-Commerce will be expanded.
We expect the share of the IT sector in GDP to reach 8%.
Turkey will be among the top 10 countries in international e-transformation rankings.
By 2019, 100% of public services provided on paper will be provided electronically.
60% of our population will be computer literate by 2015, 70% by 2019 and 80% by 2023.
By 2015, Turkey's critical information infrastructures will be protected from cyber threats.
Continuous and regular improvements will be made in the field of Cyber Security, and
domestic products and systems will be developed.
E-Democracy applications will be prepared and
opportunities for citizens to participate in central and local decision-making processes electronically will be increased.
By 2019, all payments as well as transactions in government services will be made by electronic banking, credit card or other new generation payment systems.
By 2015, Terrestrial Digital Television Broadcasting and common antenna system will be introduced across the country and visual pollution caused by antennas will be eliminated.
Our participation in international organizations that develop new generation technologies and set world standards will be maximized, and
Turkey will become a country that produces and develops information in the field of informatics.
By 2015, a Public Safety and Emergency Communication network will be established and
communication opportunities for all types of emergency and disaster management will be increased.
Domestic mobile phone production will be supported and expanded
, and the use of domestic products will be increased.
Our country will be the call center and data center base of Europe and the region.
Turkey will be ensured to have at least one national company, at least one national brand and at least one national product of our own design and standard, which will have a voice in the global ICT market.
Arrangements will be made for the introduction of spectrum trading practices.
By 2015, the postal sector will be liberalized in a controlled and gradual manner and a fully competitive environment will be ensured.
Strong Society
JUNE 12 GENERAL ELECTIONS
Election
Declaration
Education Health Culture Family Women Youth Sports Social Security Fight against Poverty and Social Supports Policies for Disadvantaged Groups Disabled Elderly Children in Need of Protection
Our Martyrs' Widows and Orphans, Invalids and Veterans Foundations
AK Party is a movement of the nation.
That is why service to people is at the center of AK Party politics.
With an understanding that loves the creature because of the Creator, it sees the state and politics as a way of serving people.
In the light of these principles, the unity of the state and the nation was ensured under the AK Party rule,
who is closely involved in every issue of our society,
A "servant of the nation" state approach that constantly works to solve problems and produces new approaches and solutions.
For this, we have implemented social justice policies and practices.
At the heart of all these services is the effort to ensure justice, welfare, quality of life and equality of opportunity.
From economic policies to foreign policy, from democratization to social policies, we make all our policies with a multidimensional and future-oriented approach that takes into account the happiness and needs of people.
In order to achieve our goal of a strong society, we have acted with this approach in every field from education to health, from social support to culture.
We have realized a giant transformation in health, which is a fundamental human right, by providing quality services that are accessible to all.
We have made great strides in education, from schooling to technological needs, from dormitories to universities, from scholarships to curricula, so that all our children and young people can receive a quality education under equal conditions.
We have become people for the orphans.
We reached our citizens in need in the remotest corners of the country.
We extended the state's hand of compassion.
With a social state approach, we have created an environment for these groups to embrace life and look to the future with hope.
As a requirement of our social state approach, we have taken measures to raise the living standards of our low-income groups in many areas from health to social security.
In line with our main goal of social peace and solidarity, we have provided services to ensure that all our citizens feel that they are essential elements of this society.
We have implemented practices that enable the disabled, children in need of protection and disadvantaged groups to feel the joy of life and connect to social life.
We have done a lot in 8.5 years on the road to a strong society  but there is still much more to do...
As AK Party, we are targeting not only the next 4 years, but also the 100th anniversary of the founding of our Republic.
In the 100th year of our Republic; basic needs were met with services above world standards,
feeling safe,
proud of the community they belong to,
integrated with society and its environment,
leading a happy and peaceful life in their family and social environment,
We aim for a strong society consisting of educated, healthy, well-equipped and self-confident people.
With this vision of a strong society, we aim for a Turkey that will be a model for the world in terms of human quality and social cohesion by the 100th anniversary of our Republic.
Education
Education is the most fundamental service area for realizing the goal of a strong society.
AK Party promotes education, raising the quality of life of our people,
equipping our country's human resources to compete with the modern world
and sees it as a lifelong activity.
During the period of our governments, the physical and technological infrastructure of education has been improved and developed at a rate incomparable to the past.
Ensuring access to education for all individuals,
realization of equal opportunity in education,
modernization of course curricula,
great strides have been made in the quality, quantity and regional distribution of human resources in education
and significant results were obtained.
In our 2002 Party Program and 2007 Election Declaration, we achieved almost all of the goals we set for education.
Here are some of the actions we have taken in 8.5 years: First of all, we put aside curricula based on rote memorization in primary and secondary education.
We introduced new, realistic curricula based on reasoning and application of what one has learned.
We implemented a brand new understanding that "teaches learning" and that will enable people to have confidence in themselves, their thinking and their work.
We have made great strides in education services by increasing the share of the budget allocated to education at a record level.
In 2002, the total budget allocated to education (including the Council of Higher Education and the Credit and Dormitories Institution) was 10.8 billion TL, but as the AK Party government, we increased this by 5 times and in 2011 this figure reached 49 billion TL.
We saw it as an urgent intervention to ensure that all our children have easy access to education and a quality educational environment.
In this context, we built 162,000 new classrooms between 2002 and 2011.
This is more than 1/3 of the number of classrooms we have at all times.
We have put 747 new hostels into operation to meet the accommodation needs of our children in primary and secondary education.
We added 920 new sports halls to the sports halls in our schools, which used to be very few.
We opened 6146 new school libraries in line with our goal of having a library in every school.
Science High Schools, Anatolian Teachers' High Schools and Anatolian High Schools were expanded throughout the country.
During our government, we established Social Sciences High Schools for the first time in Turkey.
We are preparing our children for the information society.
While in 2002 there were very few computers in our schools, most of which were outdated, today we have allocated 844 thousand computers to our schools to prepare our children and youth for the information society.
We provided high-speed internet access to 97% of our schools.
With the FATIH Project, smart classrooms are created and these opportunities are now being extended from the school to the classroom.
Having implemented the e-school project in 2007, long before many developed countries, Turkey has recorded all educational mobility of its children and youth.
Poverty is a phenomenon that can only be overcome through education.
We have provided great support for the children of poor families to receive education.
Thus, we have made great strides in ensuring equal opportunities in education.
Starting the year after we came to power, that is, since the 2003-2004 academic year, we have been delivering free textbooks to our students on the opening day of school.
We started to deposit cash education support every month into the accounts of low-income mothers on behalf of their children.
We increased the secondary education scholarship 9 times from only 12 TL in 2003 to 100 TL in 2011.
While 200 million TL was spent on the education and rehabilitation of the disabled in 2002, we increased this figure 16 times to 3.2 billion TL in the 2011 budget.
With the Disability Law, we started to transport disabled students to schools free of charge.
We increased the number of disabled people receiving education by 10 times.
With the "Haydi Kızlar Okula" campaign, we brought 350 thousand girls who could not go to school for various reasons to school.
We taught 567 thousand women to read and write with the "Mother-Girls in School" campaign.
We realized the "Bridge of Hearts Project" in order to help our children and young people studying in different regions of our country to get to know Turkey better and to improve the dialogue between them.
With this project, we transported 130 thousand students from East to West and West to East.
Prioritizing education means prioritizing our teachers.
As a matter of fact, Vi out of every 2 teachers currently working in our schools was appointed during our government.
Taking into account the critical role of our teachers in education, we improved their salaries by more than 300% between 2002 and 2011 in both TL and USD terms.
Our universities are the institutions that determine our future.
We have also made great strides in higher education.
While we had
76 universities in 2002, we established 89 new universities.
Now we have 165 universities.
In other words, we have more than doubled the number of universities in 8.5 years.
We have no province without a university.
At least one public university was established in every province, and foundation universities were freed from being confined to Istanbul, Ankara and Izmir.
There are now foundation universities in many cities in Anatolia.
We increased the budgets of state universities 5 times in 8.5 years, from 2.5 billion TL in 2002 to 11.5 billion TL in 2011.
While the enrollment rate in higher education, including open education, was 29.3% in 2002, we doubled this rate to 67% in 2011.
While only 40-50 students were sent abroad annually under Law No. 1416, since 2006 we have started a program to send 1000 students abroad for master's and doctoral studies each year.
While the higher education loan was 45 TL in 2002, we increased this amount 5 times in 8.5 years and raised it to 240 TL in 2011.
We have made great progress in meeting the housing, nutrition, scholarship and loan needs of higher education youth.
We increased the budget of Yurtkur from 494 million TL in 2002 to approximately 3.5 billion TL in 2011 by increasing it 7 times in 8 years.
While the formal enrollment rate in higher education was 19.6% in 2002, we increased this rate to 35.6% today.
So we increased it by more than 50%.
While there was a higher education enrollment rate of 29.3% in 2002 with open education, we increased this rate to 67% in 2011. In other words, we more than doubled it.
We provide 150 TL nutrition aid every month to students staying in higher education dormitories.
Our 2023 Goals in Education
To date, we have addressed problems and shortcomings quickly and with high quality.
What we do is not enough.
Because our goal is a great and strong Turkey.
Greater breakthroughs and work await us.
Towards 2023, education will again be the top priority of the AK Party government, as it has always been.
Our goal is to have basic skills,
think critically and creatively,
open to sharing and communication,
strong sense of art and aesthetics,
a universal ability to comprehend and think,
open to new ideas,
who see difference as richness,
to raise individuals who have adopted working and producing as a virtue.
This requires not only an advanced curriculum and an adequate and high-quality educational infrastructure, but also the
training of educators as conscious, open and pioneering individuals.
By 2023, all schools will have educational environments in which all kinds of information technology products are widely and fully utilized at the level of developed countries.
There will be seamless electronic communication between all schools, teachers and students.
In a few years, preschool education will be included in compulsory education in 81 provinces.
Secondary education schooling rate will reach 85% in formal education.
The share of vocational education in secondary education will be increased to 65%.
Schooling rate in higher education will be increased to 85% in total.
In formal education, this rate will reach 70%.
The number of faculty members will be increased to 80 thousand in the short and medium term, with 20 students per faculty member, and
this number will rise to 100 thousand in 2023.
In 2023, we promise an education field that has no deficiency in terms of human resources.
For all provinces, the maximum number of students per classroom will be 30 in primary education in urban and rural areas and in secondary education.
Turkey will be among the top 10 most successful countries in the results of the International Student Achievement Assessment (PISA)
The AK Party government promises a disabled-friendly environment in 2023, including infrastructure arrangements that make life easier for the disabled indoors and outdoors.
Scholarship, dormitory and free boarding opportunities will be increased and maintained.
Free textbook distribution will continue.
After the 2011 elections, the structure of the Council of Higher Education will be reorganized with the new Constitution to be prepared.
YÖK will be transformed into an institution that coordinates and supervises universities and provides accreditation in certain fields.
A structure that facilitates the diversity and self-development of universities will be created.
In the following period, faculty member training programs will be expanded,
sufficient staff will be provided to universities
and the profession of faculty membership will be made more attractive.
Universities will be reorganized on an "entrepreneurial university model" that combines knowledge with technology and production.
Boards of trustees will also be established in public universities, starting with advanced universities.
Legal arrangements enabling the establishment of private universities will be made
and necessary measures will be taken to increase the share of private and foundation universities in higher education.
The issue of quality in our universities will be one of our most important issues in the coming period.
An independent "Higher Education Quality Agency" will be established to conduct quality assessment of higher education.
According to "Citation Index" data, Turkey is currently the 17th country in the world in terms of the number of scientific articles published.
We aim to be among the top 10 in 2023.
As a requirement of university autonomy, the transfer of public resources to universities will be realized in the form of an omnibus budget.
The number of universities is becoming sufficient to meet the needs of the country.
The next priority is to improve the quality of higher education.
We will ensure that our universities become centers of attraction for the countries of the region and the world in parallel with the international effectiveness of our country.
Developed universities will be encouraged to open campuses abroad, and
Turkish universities will be established in many countries by 2023.
We have paid special attention to the identification and education of gifted children, who break new ground with new inventions, shape the future and make up approximately 2 percent of the population in each country.
We will take this work to new and higher levels.
We will extend the guidance system to pre-school so that all children are guided according to their abilities.
The practice of carrying heavy bags every day, which harms the physical and mental development of students, will be ended, and
textbooks and materials will be kept in the lockers or classrooms allocated to students in schools.
We will plan and build school spaces in a way befitting Leader Turkey.
The "From Tradition to the Future" project, which envisages the construction of schools with a functional architecture that synthesizes traditional, local and modern architecture, will be expanded.
School buildings will be designed as accessible and horizontal, functional spaces with adequate play, sports and cultural areas.
We will improve the school-based budget management we have started.
We will evaluate schools based on academic, social, cultural, artistic and sporting performance
and share the results with the public.
We will create a teacher qualification system in line with the new curriculum and in cooperation with universities.
In order to ensure a balanced distribution of teachers across provinces, a differentiated salary model will be developed and
qualified and experienced teachers will be employed primarily in disadvantaged settlements.
The distribution of resources among schools will be based on the number of students and the socio-economic environment of the school.
Foreign language teaching will be provided at a level to be able to communicate verbally and in writing.
Health
As in every field, we have realized a giant transformation in the field of health by providing quality services that are accessible to everyone.
Because the goal of a strong society requires a healthy society in the first place.
We have offered a people-oriented service in health with the understanding of "We love the created because of the Creator".
We acted with the understanding of "serving the nation", which is the basic principle of AK Party politics.
We acted not against some centers, but with a sense of responsibility towards our nation.
We did what was said "impossible" and
realized the unimaginable.
The health sector has ceased to be an ordeal sector.
The times when those without money were held hostage in hospitals are a thing of the past.
There was a health revolution that cared for the poor.
We have built and are building hospitals with the comfort of a five-star hotel.
We equip our health institutions with state-of-the-art equipment.
We doubled the number of health personnel.
We now have specialized doctors in the remotest corners that have never seen a doctor.
While conventional ambulances were delivered to every corner in the fastest way and in proportion to the need, Turkey was introduced to helicopter and air ambulances.
In short, we have realized a great and historic transformation in health under our government.
Today, our health system stands out in the world as a unique model.
We have accomplished so many achievements during this period that we can only include some of them here.
With the "Health Transformation Program", citizen satisfaction rate in health services reached 73 percent from 39 percent.
Thanks to the Health Transformation Program implemented by the AK Party government, the periods when patients were held hostage in hospitals are now a thing of the past.
With the new practice we started during our government period, we put "Patient Rights Unit" into operation in all of our hospitals.
We are implementing the "Right to Choose a Physician", one of the most fundamental patient rights, in 943 hospitals and oral and dental health centers.
While 1 million square meters of health facilities were built in the 8 years between 1995-2002, we increased this figure 5 times in the 8 years between 2003-2010
and built 4.7 million square meters of health facilities.
Half of the total 10.5 million square meters of health area built in the history of the Republic was realized by AK Party governments.
In hospitals, we switched from the ward system to a room system with a bathroom and toilet.
At the end of 80 years, there were 7 thousand beds with a bathroom in the room in public hospitals, in 8 years we have increased this figure 4 times and reached 30 thousand.
We increased the budget for preventive health services allocated to protect the health of our people 7-fold, from 928 million TL to 6 billion 424 million TL.
While the number of doctoral transportation of our citizens was 200 million in 2002, we increased it by 2.5 times and raised it to 524 million in 2010.
We extended free mobile health services to all rural areas.
While the number of boxes of medicines provided by the state to citizens was 700 million boxes per year at the end of 80 years, we have increased this figure to over 1 billion 570 million boxes in 8 years.
To ensure easy access to medicines in rural areas, we launched a mobile pharmacy.
37 million workers, their families and pensioners were confined to 370 hospitals and dispensaries.
We gathered hospitals under a single roof. We ensured that our citizens receive services from all health institutions with their health insurance.
These 37 million people can now receive services from 2330 hospitals and medical centers and 6336 family health centers like all our citizens.
74 million of our citizens can receive treatment at no cost, including private hospitals, in cases requiring emergency and intensive care.
We also ensured that everyone, whether insured or not, can benefit from all kinds of health benefits free of charge in case of epidemics, work accidents and occupational diseases.
On the other hand, our citizens no longer pay for burns, cancer, neonatal, organ transplantation, congenital disorders, dialysis and cardiovascular surgery procedures in private hospitals.
We ensured that Green Card holders, just like other insured citizens, can benefit from public health services and buy their medicines from the pharmacy of their choice.
We started the practice of hospitals providing medicines and medical supplies for inpatients free of charge.
In places with transportation problems, we hosted expectant mothers before delivery and ensured that they gave birth in a healthy way.
We increased the rate of hospital births from 78% to 92%.
We provide financial support to poor families, who until yesterday were turned away from health institutions, to encourage them to have regular health checks for their pregnant women and children.
We have paid 2 billion TL to date.
We provide transportation of patients from home to health institution and from health institution to home in case of medical and social needs, to and from the hospital.
In the past, when a patient needed blood, relatives were asked to provide it.
With the project we have initiated with the Red Crescent, 60 percent of this need is met by our hospitals through volunteer donors.
We have completed the pilot study of the service where citizens can call the 182 call center for Ministry of Health Hospitals and Oral and Dental Health Centers and make an appointment for the hospital and physician of their choice.
We started distributing free iron medicines and vitamin D to infants and pregnant women.
While the number of maternal deaths was 882 in 2002, we reduced it by 4 times to 212 in 2010.
Thus, while the maternal mortality rate due to pregnancy was 64 per 100,000 in 2002, we reduced this rate to 16 per 100,000.
We reached in 8 years where OECD countries took 23 years.
We reduced infant mortality from 38,170 in 2002 to 13,460 in 2010.
In other words, when we took office, the rate of babies we lost before the age of one was 29 per thousand.
We reduced this rate to 10 per thousand at an unprecedented rate.
In 8 years, we reached where OECD countries reached in 30 years.
We implemented the Family Medicine practice, which is widespread in the modern world, in Turkey.
With Family Medicine, we ensure that all our citizens receive primary healthcare services free of charge.
In 81 provinces, we opened free cancer screening and training centers.
We have reduced the annual number of infectious diseases such as measles and typhoid from tens of thousands to almost zero.
We have developed country programs for non-communicable diseases such as cardiovascular diseases, cancers, diabetes, chronic respiratory diseases, stroke, kidney failure.
The number of ambulances was 618 in 2002.
We quadrupled this in 8.5 years and raised it to 2547.
Before our government, citizens used to pay money to have their patients transported by ambulance.
There was no ambulance service for our villages.
Now, we provide ambulance service up to our villages, even with one of 20 air ambulances when needed, completely free of charge.
While 350 thousand people were transported by ambulance in 2002, we transported 2 million 100 thousand people in 2010,
meaning that the number of patients/injured we transported increased 6 times.
Dialysis patients are picked up from their homes and brought back home with services during our government period.
There is no charge for this service.
More than 2 million people have quit smoking since 2008, when we launched the "complete smoke-free air zone".
The number of smokers aged 15 and over dropped from 16 million to 14 million.
While the total number of cigarettes consumed in Turkey was 107 billion in 2009, this figure decreased to 93 billion last year.
Increased the number of examination rooms in MoH hospitals from 6643 to 21,278,
increased the number of intensive care beds from 869 to 8100,
The number of MRI devices increased from 18 to 247 and the number of personnel from 256 thousand to 447 thousand,
We increased the quotas of medical faculties from 4500 to 7500.
Our 2023 Goals in Health
As in every field, we are not satisfied with what we have done so far and what we have brought to our nation in the field of health.
In 2023, we promise high targets in health for our people.
We have made possible what was said to be impossible until today.
With the support and trust of our people, by the 100th anniversary of the Republic, Turkey will become an attractive health base not only for its own people but also for countries in the region.
Our goal now is to realize the healthy society of the future.
Some of our 2023 targets are as follows: Individual and community health is protected at the highest level,
We aim for a Turkey where the fastest and most effective solutions to health problems are offered.
We will minimize environmental threats to human health and create cities and villages where our people will live more peacefully.
With the Public-Private Partnership (PPP) model, for which we have created all kinds of preparations and legislative infrastructure, we will create giant City Hospitals with health facilities, R&D units, high technology centers, social living areas, health sciences university and large recreational areas.
Expanding treatment diversity across the country,
To complete regional development in the field of health,
to improve service quality,
We will develop city hospitals, which we have started the process for cost-effective health service delivery, all over our country.
We are implementing green hospital projects and taking
steps to establish environmentally friendly hospitals.
Within the framework of PPP, we will create 38 thousand new beds in City Hospitals to be established in 22 provinces.
We will double the number of doctors from 120,000 today to 130,000 in 2015, 155,000 in 2019 and 200,000 in 2023.
We will increase the number of nurse midwives from 163 thousand to 238 thousand in 2015, 310 thousand in 2019 and 400 thousand in 2023.
We will increase the number of employees in the health sector from 650 thousand in total to 715 thousand in 2015, 853 thousand in 2019 and 1 million 100 thousand in 2023.
Contracted health personnel will be united under one roof.
They will have the right to relocate on their own terms.
In 2002, the rate of qualified beds in our hospitals was 9%, while today it is 30%.
By 2023, all patient rooms in our health institutions will have a maximum of two beds, bathrooms and toilets.
We will continue by strengthening the structure of our health system, which we have ensured the financial sustainability of today.
We will make a health system sustainable where no citizen is deprived of health care for monetary reasons.
We will closely follow the current developments of science on health and make them available to our citizens.
In this context, we will ensure that our citizens benefit from applications such as health nanotechnology, neural engineering, cell engineering, tissue and organ engineering.
This will make it possible to treat many diseases such as paralysis, AIDS and cancer, which are currently incurable.
We will increase R&D activities in areas such as stem cells, gene therapy, drug research, and infrastructure development for remote diagnostics.
We will be the center of health tourism in Europe, Middle East, Africa, Central Asia and Russia.
We will continue to develop community-based health services.
In the 29 health regions to be established across the country, an advanced service infrastructure will be provided at a level that will not require patients to travel to other regions, with exceptions.
We will realize a structure where the average population per family physician is 3200 in 2015, 2550 in 2019 and 2000 in 2023.
By increasing the awareness of our citizens about their own health, we will add years to life and years to life.
We will develop a society with a high level of physical and mental health.
We will continue to see our people as first-class citizens of our country, regardless of their financial status.
We will monitor the health of our citizens step by step during pregnancy, birth, childhood, adolescence, youth and old age, i.e. throughout their lives.
We will reduce the maternal mortality rate due to pregnancy from 16 per 100,000 today to 10 per 100,000 in 2015 and below 6 per 100,000 in 2023.
We will reduce the infant mortality rate, which today stands at 10 per thousand, to 7 per thousand in 2015, 6 per thousand in 2019 and below 5 per thousand in 2023.
The child protection system will be restructured to include preventive mechanisms and practices, risk monitoring and early warning systems.
We will continue to develop medical equipment, hardware and technology to minimize the impact of emergencies, disasters and crises on our health.
We will consolidate the regional structure in this regard.
We will prevent infectious diseases from damaging our health, social and economic situation.
We will be among the most advanced countries in the world in preventing persistent non-communicable medical problems, mental disorders, illness, disability and premature death from violence and injury.
To reduce the use of tobacco, alcohol, drugs and other substances, we will continue to tackle the risk factors that cause them.
Currently, 27 out of every 100 people over the age of 15 smoke.
We will reduce it below 23% in 2015, 19% in 2019 and 15% in 2023.
Today, 32 out of every 100 adults are obese.
We will reduce this rate to below 30 in 2015, 25 in 2019 and 20 in 2023 by promoting healthy nutrition and regular physical activity.
We will start the fight against obesity at a young age and school-wide.
We launched home health care services as a pilot project.
In this context, we started to provide health care for elderly and bedridden patients in their own homes and family environments.
We will provide this service to all citizens who need it.
We will offer our elderly people a very healthy life.
Our elderly will be more active and healthy, and
we will raise care services for the elderly above world standards.
Where necessary, we will provide services to the elderly in their own homes.
We will continue to ensure that people with special needs due to their health, social or economic conditions, especially people with disabilities, have easy access to the health services they need.
We will continue to provide out-of-hospital medical care and rehabilitation for these patients in need of care in their own home and family environment.
Our citizens will continue to use the latest medical technologies at the cheapest price.
We will expand incentives and procurement practices to attract high health technology to Turkey.
We will make more use of information and communication technologies in the delivery of health services.
We will increase the quality and reduce the cost of health services with practices such as home care and telemedicine.
Turkey will further develop the "Transformation in Health", which is now a unique model worldwide, and consolidate its place among the leaders in setting the global health agenda.
We will develop and increase our cooperation with the world in the field of health.
We aim for a Turkey that not only keeps pace with global change, but also leads global change by aiming to serve people.
Culture
Education and culture are fields that not only sustain human life like other fields, but also build human beings.
Culture is the most important bond that connects us to each other as well as our past to the present and our present to the future.
The civilization Turkey inherited from its history and geography is a defining color of today's world.
Not only as cultural consumers of the world's common heritage built up over thousands of years, in written and oral form, from literature to music, from architecture to philosophy,
It is a fact that we have also contributed as a culture-building and disseminating actor.
This process of cultural construction, which reached its peak with the Seljuks and Ottomans, reached a new synthesis and originality with the Republic.
A strong society means strong thoughts, deeds and values.
A society without values, without tradition, unable to carry its tradition into the present and reproduce it, cannot have a say in the world, cannot
add meaning to the future.
Preserving our historical and cultural heritage is an
issue that we attach great importance to in order to pass on to the next generations our unique characteristics and beauties that make us who we are and distinguish us from others.
Our civilization and cultural heritage also make us one of the world's greatest centers of interest.
In this respect, culture is closely related to tourism.
As the AK Party government, we have carried out great works in the field of culture in 8.5 years.
Some of these are as follows: Culture is one of the indispensable values that make a nation exist.
Until today, when we talk about "culture", we think of the state and its activities. Our government saw culture as a common field of activity of the whole nation as well as the state and
gave great support to private cultural organizations and activities.
8.5 years ago, we did not have a cultural inventory on an international scale.
We now have a detailed inventory of our tangible and intangible cultural heritage in all our provinces.
We are restoring our architectural heritage not only within our borders but also in various geographies of the world.
While there were 42 cultural centers in our country in 2002, this number more than doubled in the 8.5 years of AK Party rule and reached 98 cultural centers in 2011.
We supported the construction of 45 cultural centers with the additional resources we provided to our local governments within the scope of the "Support Project for Public Cultural Investments".
The number of visitors to museums and ruins rose from 7.5 million in 2002 to 26 million in 2011. In other words, it increased 3.5 times.
While there were only 93 private museums in 2002, today this number has increased by 50% to 141.
State Theaters were given 35 new stages during the AK Party rule.
The total number of stages reached 58.
While the annual number of performances of the State Theaters was 4000 in 2002, we increased this figure to 5600 in 2010.
While our support for private theaters was 850 thousand TL in 2002, it increased to 3.5 million TL in 2011. In other words, we quadrupled our support in 8.5 years.
In 2002, 13 private theater groups were supported, excluding Ankara and Istanbul theaters, while this number increased to 52 in 2010.
We also increased the share of these theaters from 6% to 20% of the total support.
While the number of performances in opera and ballet was 584 in 2002, we increased this number by 45% to 838 in 2010.
The number of concerts, recitals and other events organized by orchestras, choirs and music ensembles of the Ministry of Culture and Tourism increased from 1400 in 2002 to 1950 in 2010.
The number of domestic movie viewers increased 11-fold
, from 2 million to 22 million in 8.5 years.
The number of domestic films released increased from 9 in 2002 to 65 in 2010.
In this development of Turkish Cinema in recent years, the support provided through a special fund and by setting certain standards has played an important role.
While the support given to the cinema sector was 5.7 million dollars between 1990-2003, this figure increased to 90 million dollars between 2004-2010. In other words, it increased 15 times.
While the number of moviegoers was 23.5 million in 2002, this figure reached 45 million in 2010.
The rate of increase was 75%.
The number of books with ISBNs increased from 17,000 in 2002 to 36,000 in 2010.
Following Istanbul's selection as the 2010 European Capital of Culture, many cultural activities were supported.
As a result of the courses organized by municipalities, Public Education Centers and NGO activities, there has been a visible revival in our traditional arts.
The Social Support Program (SODES), which has been implemented in GAP and DAP provinces since 2008, has supported more than 1000 cultural activities.
Our 2023 Goals in Culture
As AK Party, we always consider culture and education together.
Because no political and economic project can be successful unless everyone is taught and adopts our common values and principles.
The role of the state in the field of culture is not only to provide support.
Strengthen social unity by using policies and support in line with our 2023 vision
and to make further progress towards a new synthesis of civilization.
Our families are the most important source of transmitting and nurturing our rich culture.
By strengthening our family structure
and it is important for us to pass on our culture to the future in a stronger and more vibrant way by protecting it against all kinds of degeneration.
In the 100th year of our Republic, our cultural and artistic values will be preserved,
reproduced
and passed on to future generations.
With the self-confidence of having their own values, our people will see the whole world as a field of cultural interaction as well as a field of knowledge and business.
A social structure where everyone has access to culture and arts activities will be created.
Drawing strength from its tradition, Turkey will present a new synthesis to the future.
The main objectives of our 2023 vision in the field of culture are as follows: We will build cultural centers in provinces without cultural centers.
Our cultural programs will be based on creating an environment where everyone can express themselves freely.
For this purpose, a new support project called the Culture Dissemination Project (KÜYAP) will be implemented in the coming period.
Transfer of cultural facilities such as libraries, cultural centers and museums to local governments will be completed.
Support for private art institutions and NGOs interested in arts and culture will continue to increase.
In Istanbul, we will build a world-class museum displaying the symbols of our history, civilization and culture.
The Zeugma Mosaic Museum in Gaziantep and the Eti Archaeology Museum in Eskişehir will open in 2011.
By 2023, we will establish the Museum of Turkish Civilizations in Ankara, the Museum of Aegean Civilizations in Izmir, the Museum of Mediterranean Civilizations in Antalya, the Urartu Museum in Van, the Museum of Ottoman Nations in Istanbul, the Troy Museum in Çanakkale, the Edessa Archaeological Museum and the Haleplibahçe Museum in Şanlıurfa.
We will restore every historical monument.
We will increase the number of survey, restitution, restoration, landscaping and engineering projects,
realize their implementation, and
increase the number of works that have been extensively restored.
We will provide all protected areas in our country with conservation zoning plans.
We will unearth and exhibit the artifacts of all civilizations that have lived in our country.
We will add at least 10 new monuments to the UNESCO World Heritage List by 2023.
We will continue to identify and register archaeological, natural, urban and historical protected areas as well as buildings and monuments that are cultural and natural assets,
digitize their inventories
and present them to the public.
Architectural drawings and projects of all cultural assets will be created
and archiving of these designs and projects will be completed so that they can be rebuilt in case of damage.
Necessary technical staff will be trained for the protection of our cultural heritage.
All historical documents will be collected in an archive within legal boundaries
and made available for use.
City museums will be established in all provinces and cultural assets of the provinces will be taken under protection
and will be passed on to future generations.
Historic cities will be preserved as a whole
and examples such as Safranbolu and Amasya will be multiplied and brought into cultural tourism.
National Museum Complexes will be established in our major cities and
there will be no unexhibited artifacts left in storage.
Private museums will be encouraged.
Thematic museums such as the National Museum of Natural History, National Museum of Contemporary Arts, Museum of Fossils, Museum of Agriculture, Botanical Garden, Museum of Islamic Arts, National Museum of Costumes, National Museum of Architecture, Museum of Photographic Art, National Museum of Ceramics and Tiles, etc. will be established in selected cities.
We will cover the translation and printing costs of all identified important works within the scope of the TEDA project.
Our relations with copyright agencies developed with the launch of TEDA
and we are currently working with 15 copyright agencies.
Execution of copyrights of Turkish authors with professional copyright agencies with TEDA financial support
and we will continue to promote and market the works of more contemporary and classic authors.
By 2023, we will expand the annual English translation workshops to the other most widely spoken languages in Europe.
In line with the efforts to promote Turkish culture, art and literature on national and international platforms, National Culture Works, Memorial and Gift Books, Turkish Art and History Works, Promotional Works will be published and
facsimiles of rare works will be published.
Within the scope of e-book studies, classical sources of Turkish literature will be published electronically.
In order to prevent the impoverishment and degeneration of our vocabulary, the basic sources of our language will be selected, comprehensive (etymological, etc.) dictionaries will be prepared, and
these will be made available electronically.
Our classical and folk music will be included more comprehensively and effectively in our national education curriculum.
In addition to the existing instruments taught, classical and folk music instruments such as ney, oud, kaval, bağlama, etc. will also be introduced and taught to our students.
Introducing classical arts such as marbling, which is suitable in terms of tools, application and cost, to our students in our schools,
Projects related to popularization and adoption will be supported.
In this direction, competent artists will be utilized as well as artists who have been trained in the Vocational Training Courses of the municipalities and whose artistic competence has been confirmed by master artists.
Our students will be given courses called "City Culture", which will introduce the history and culture of their own city.
Supporting our traditional arts
Support will be given to the activities of relevant NGOs for the promotion and dissemination of the program.
For this purpose, a Traditional Arts Support Program (GSDP) will be established to provide resources for quality and valuable projects.
This program will be funded by public and private contributions.
By 2023, we will open literature museum libraries in at least 3 provinces every year.
By 2013, the Presidency will be organized into 3 regional directorates and 15 manuscript libraries in order to ensure that the newly established Presidency of Manuscripts Institution serves effectively as a specialized institution specialized in its field.
By 2023, this institution will be one of the world's leading specialized institutions in the field of manuscripts.
We will establish at least one library in every settlement with a population over 5000.
The National Library will be among the world's leading libraries in terms of books, periodicals, digital visual materials and archives.
An electronic library on the scale of the national library will be established in Ankara.
We will make our libraries attractive centers using the latest technology.
All kinds of audio, video and electronic resources will be used widely, effectively, quickly and reliably in our libraries.
The State Theaters, which is determined to open the curtain every night in every province of Turkey, aims to contribute more to the development of Turkish Theater by increasing the number of national and international festivals it organizes.
We will further support the theaters established by municipalities, NGOs and private entrepreneurs.
The efforts we have initiated will be stepped up further and we will emphasize the emphasis on our cultural and artistic values in educational institutions.
Within this framework, we will encourage the teaching of our traditional culture and world classics in primary and secondary education.
In primary and secondary education, in order to develop democratic awareness on cultural differences, the values that exist in the traditional culture of our society and see differences as richness will be kept alive.
Important personalities, events, fairy tale heroes and cultural richness elements of our history will be turned into documentaries, series and cartoons.
An incentive mechanism will be created for the film industry to portray the basic elements and values of our culture.
The Turkish film industry will become one of the world's leading industries.
New information and communication technologies will be utilized to the maximum extent in order for our people to comprehend and embrace our cultural richness and gain self-confidence.
In 2023, we will open Yunus Emre Institutes in all continents and important centers of the world.
Activities aimed at promoting the opportunities offered by Turkey's civilizational accumulation to the international community and contributing to universal culture will be supported.
Special emphasis will be placed on the repatriation of artifacts belonging to our country that have been taken abroad through a fund to be established and through the effective operation of international law.
"Year of Turkey" will be organized in many countries in cooperation with the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, TIKA and Yunus Emre Foundation.
Family
One of our biggest differences and advantages over other societies is that we have a strong family structure.
It is in our families that our social solidarity, solidarity and sharing culture is born and manifests itself.
Indeed, it is the strength and resilience of our families that keeps our society standing despite all economic difficulties and all social and individual shocks.
With the acceleration of urbanization, new threats have unfortunately been directed at our family institution, which is based on solid values and developed in the spirit and meaning of the civilization we belong to.
Increasing divorce rates, the perception of the family as a home of virtues and values by some as an ordinary union, and the overshadowing of the basic functions of parents in the upbringing of children are some of such threats.
It is appreciated that a healthy body is only possible if all the organs of that body are healthy.
The protection and strengthening of the family, which is the most important building block of our society after individuals, is of great importance for the survival of society and the country.
As AK Party, we know that a strong and happy family is the basis of a strong society, which is our ideal for the future.
Ensuring the continuation of the family and social structure in a healthy way,
The healthy transmission of values and principles between generations is of indispensable importance for ensuring the social adaptation processes of the individual.
The AK Party has developed effective policies with the awareness that the family is the first and most important educational institution.
We restructured the Prime Ministry's General Directorate of Family and Social Research.
Thus, the coordination activities of the organization are carried out in a systematic and efficient manner incomparable to the past.
We have implemented policies to improve the quality of life of women, youth, children and the elderly, the cornerstones of the family institution.
The reflections of the AK Party government's "strong family, strong society" approach also manifested itself at the international level, and
Turkey hosted the "World Family Summit" for the first time in 2009.
In its third term in power, the AK Party will further advance its family policies to achieve the goal of a prosperous Turkey where people live a comfortable and quality life.
Our 2023 Goals for Families
The AK Party considers the family as the greatest dynamo for the New Turkey of 2023 to be composed of individuals who are physically and mentally healthy and whose moral and fundamental values are sound.
In this direction, a climate of "social awareness" will be created for all elements of society to embrace the concept of family.
This requires strengthening the institution of marriage,
Effective policies will be developed to protect family integrity and keep our family values alive.
We will emphasize policies to strengthen family ties to enable the transmission of intergenerational cultural values.
We will implement the "Family Social Support Program" (ASDEP) that can reach every family by providing "support to the family within the family" for the protection of family integrity and strong and happy families.
We will prioritize the family in the implementation of welfare-enhancing policies.
In the context of strengthening the family institution, we will expand and strengthen parenting schools and family counseling centers.
We will open "Social Service and Rehabilitation Centers" within reach of all families in our country without using vehicles.
Research will continue to be conducted to determine the status, structure and needs of the Turkish family, and
needs will be identified through future trend analyses.
Policies on the protection and strengthening of family integrity and policies on housing, education, social security and income distribution will be implemented in a complementary manner.
It will be ensured that institutions and organizations related to family-related activities work in a more coordinated manner under a single roof.
Behavioral disorders, especially among young people,
drug use,
children pushed into crime,
increase in divorces,
inadequacies in family education,
problems in the field of migration, urbanization and socialization,
The severe problems experienced by low-income groups and other disadvantaged families bring a heavy burden of problems, especially in urban life.
Based on the fact that these problems are largely family-based, family social support programs will be developed and expanded.
Priority will be given to activities aimed at developing, protecting and sustaining social values in general and family values in particular;
activities (culture, arts, education, TV programs, etc.) that highlight family values will be encouraged.
Priority will be given to practices that will strengthen the weakening family perception of new generations.
The institution of marriage as the foundation of family structure will be supported.
Marriage and family certificate programs will be made widespread by developing cooperation with local administrations and NGOs in order to disseminate the Marriage and Family Training Program, which was developed to raise awareness of young people and prospective spouses on issues such as adaptation to marriage and communication in marriage, with the aim of starting marriages smoothly.
TOKI is launching a Home Incentive Housing Program for poor newlyweds.
With this program, newly married poor couples who apply will be able to own cheap housing with maturities of up to 25 years by drawing lots among themselves.
Arrangements will be made for the safe and conscious use of mass media and the internet for family health, and
awareness-raising activities will be emphasized.
Necessary research will be conducted to determine the social conditions that minimize alcohol and substance abuse and to protect the environment that enables the formation of these conditions.
Awareness will be raised among the population at risk (especially young people), and
activities to support social conditions and family environments that prevent bad habits will be prioritized.
Families will be supported economically and necessary arrangements will be made to ensure that children, especially children, do not remain on the streets, in children's homes, in the working environment under conditions of victimization and abuse due to poverty and deprivation.
Information centers and/or hotlines will be established (through the relevant institutions of the state, non-governmental organizations and mass media) on where and to whom the family can turn to in the face of possible risks and what their rights are.
Woman
Societies that do not give enough space and importance to their women in all areas of life have lost half of their intelligence.
The rights and welfare of our women and the elimination of the obstacles they face in social life are indispensable for our goal of a "Strong Society" in 2023.
Because women are the central element of both social life and the family that builds the future, our children and youth.
Injustices between genders in societies are as old as history and a universal problem.
To solve this problem, to ensure that women, who constitute half of the society, are positioned as they deserve, the AK Party government is against gender discrimination as it is against all kinds of discrimination.
The AK Party has taken action to remove the "social barriers" in front of women with the presupposition that gender equality requires a mental transformation that covers the whole society as much as legal regulations.
With our understanding of "strong people, strong family, strong society", great progress has been achieved in every aspect of the issue.
The concrete reflections of this approach will continue to be conveyed to the society in the coming period.
In order to strengthen equality between women and men, Article 10 of the Constitution states: "Women and men have equal rights.
The provision "The State is obliged to ensure that this equality is realized" was amended in 2010 and the provision "Measures to be taken for this purpose cannot be interpreted as contrary to the principle of equality" was added.
and positive discrimination has been legalized.
In 2009, a first in the history of the Republic was realized and a Commission on Equal Opportunities for Women and Men was established within the Grand National Assembly of Turkey.
On January 9, 2003, the "Law on the Establishment of Family Courts" entered into force.
On May 25, 2010, a Prime Ministry Circular was issued to strengthen the socio-economic position of women,
Ensuring equality between women and men in business and social life,
We established the National Monitoring and Coordination Board for Women's Employment to increase women's employment.
We started work on preventing gender-based discrimination and monitoring practices.
As AK Party, we observe the principle of "zero tolerance" in combating violence against women.
In this framework, we have made great progress in the legal infrastructure to prevent domestic violence, honor killings and honor killings.
We have accelerated our efforts to improve social and corporate awareness and sensitivity.
As a matter of fact, the new Turkish Penal Code, which entered into force in 2005, provides for the maximum penalty for perpetrators of honor killings.
In order to prevent violence against women, the Prime Ministry Circular titled "Measures to be taken for the Prevention of Acts of Violence against Children and Women and Honor and Honor Killings" was issued and
many institutional actions were implemented.
The "Proposed Law on the Protection of Women and Family Members from Violence" was submitted to the Parliament in March 2011. "The Law on the
Protection of the Family was amended in 2007, expanding the scope of the Law, and the
The 2008 Regulation clarified the implementation framework of the Law.
The ALO 183 hotline, which provides counseling services to women and children who have been subjected to violence, continues to operate on a 24-hour basis throughout the country.
In order to provide services to women victims of violence, municipalities with a population of more than 50,000 were obliged to open shelters, and the
number of women's shelters has reached 63 with the development provided through SHÇEK, municipalities and special provincial administrations, and many more are under construction.
As the AK Party government, we have taken very important actions to ensure the equitable spread of educational opportunities and to improve the qualifications of women as well as girls.
We started to deposit cash aid into the accounts of low-income mothers every month to support their children's education expenses.
We kept the amount invested higher for girls.
With the "Let's Go Girls to School Campaign", we enrolled 350 thousand children who were deprived of education.
We aim for 3 million women to learn how to read and write with the "Mother-Girls in School Campaign".
As a result of these efforts, the rate of illiterate women was reduced from 19.4% in 2000 to 11.6% in 2009.
In the same years, the proportion of women graduating from colleges and faculties increased from 5.4% to 7.3% (despite the headscarf issue in universities).
In 2000, women's labor force participation rate was 17.2% in urban areas and 40.2% in rural areas. By 2009, this figure had risen to 22.3% in urban areas, while it fell to 34.6% in rural areas.
With the incentive scheme of our government in 2008 to increase women and youth employment, these figures were achieved despite the global crisis and unemployment.
With the amendment to the Income Tax Law in 2007, women's income from the sale of products manufactured at home in places temporarily designated by public institutions and organizations without opening a workplace is exempt from tax.
We have created many support mechanisms to ensure that women's contribution to working life reaches the level it should be.
In this context, with the amendment made to the Labor Law, we increased maternity leave in case of maternity to 16 weeks, 8 weeks before the birth and 8 weeks after the birth.
We covered domestic workers with insurance.
We introduced the possibility for women who make handicrafts to pay optional insurance premiums.
As a first for self-employed women, we started to pay breastfeeding allowance and 16 weeks of incapacity for work in case of pregnancy as maternity benefits.
For each child (up to two children), we provided an insured woman with the possibility of out-of-pocket payments and social security for the 2 years she was unable to work.
With the amendment made to the Social Security Law in 2008, we provided female insured persons with the opportunity to borrow money for the periods they did not work due to childbirth.
In order not to disrupt the work motivation of working women, we have introduced an exemption for pregnant and giving birth civil servants from night shifts.
We increased paternity leave to 10 days and
increased the duration of milk leave.
We also paved the way for the father to take unpaid leave after childbirth, which was increased to 24 months to support the sharing of the responsibilities of family life between spouses.
Women are granted permanent incapacity income if it is determined that they have lost 10% or more of their earning capacity due to work accidents and occupational diseases.
In the event of the death of a working woman, her spouse, children and parents are entitled to a death pension.
When daughters who receive a death pension get married, they can receive two years' worth of their death pension as a marriage allowance for one time only.
Married couples who could not have children were entitled to benefit from IVF treatment free of charge under general health insurance.
Mothers with disabled children can retire 5 years early.
We launched micro-credit schemes in cooperation with civil society to promote women's entrepreneurship and prevent poverty,
We continue to popularize it.
Thus, our women have ceased to be in need of social support and have become productive entrepreneurs.
To date, 82 million TL micro-credit has been provided to 43 thousand low-income women and approximately 210 thousand people including their families in 67 branches in 50 provinces across the country.
Return rate is 100% without collateral and surety.
We applied positive discrimination to women by setting higher upper limits for women in the loans given by KOSGEB for entrepreneurs.
We pioneered employment training projects to help women with insufficient financial means to become professional.
We have provided 70% of the social support and project support carried out by the Social Assistance and Solidarity Foundation to women.
Within the framework of the Social Support Program (SODES), the number of projects targeting women was 137 in 2009 and 1049 in 2010.
Within the scope of the "Mother, Father, Child Education Project", families were reached through conferences, panels, courses, home and village visits on family-related issues.
Within this framework, trainings were given on topics such as "domestic violence, family planning, protection of young people from bad habits, honor killings, violence against women, child abuse".
As a result of all these practices, according to the "Life Satisfaction Survey", the proportion of women satisfied with their jobs rose from 38.1% in 2003 to 59.8% in 2009.
So it increased by about 50%.
According to the same survey, the rate of women who are satisfied with their household income increased from 18.7% to 31.2% between 2003 and 2009.
According to the results of the household information technologies usage survey, the rate of computer usage among women increased from 8% in 2005 to 33.2% in 2010 and the rate of Internet usage increased from 5.6% to 31.7%.
Improving women's quality of life is closely related to the quality of health services, which is a "fundamental human right".
To this end, we have paid special attention to women's access to health services.
Since we have detailed the relevant data in the "Health" section of our Declaration, we do not repeat it here.
Our 2023 Goals for Women
In the coming period, we will continue to prepare opportunities and opportunities for our women.
Because every step taken towards gender equality, every legal and social right that women achieve, every progress made in education, health and business life actually shapes our common future.
Equality is not about the attributes of femininity or masculinity, but about the attributes of humanity.
On the road to 2023, we have set new targets to strengthen the social position of women.
In Turkey, which is democratized and integrated with the world with the AK Party's 2023 vision, it will be not only women but also humanity that will win.
The number of women in decision-making mechanisms, in particular the proportion of women deputies in parliament, will be increased.
We developed new service delivery models for the prevention of violence against women.
Based on the dignity of women, we will create wider employment opportunities for our victimized women staying in women's guesthouses with modern physical conditions so that they can be self-sufficient and hold on to life more firmly.
We will provide all kinds of social support to mothers who live alone with their children, including "Studio Houses" with housing priority, so that they can continue their lives in a safer and healthier way without being separated from their children.
We will continue our determination to ensure equal opportunities in education and to ensure that women take their rightful place in social life.
We will ensure that all girls and boys attend school in primary and secondary education.
We will increase the transition rate of girls to secondary education.
We will increase the transition rates of girls to secondary and higher education.
In the coming period, we will support women entrepreneurs with a special program.
The labor force participation rate for women will increase from 27.7 percent in 2010 to 35 percent in 2023.
In particular, we believe that making childcare services affordable and widely available and reducing the burden on employers will play a role in increasing women's employment.
For this reason, we will provide childcare and education incentives to women who send their children to daycare centers in order to ensure that women working in the formal sector remain in employment.
Thus, we will both increase women's employment and
support pre-school education.
We will make 10 percent positive discrimination for women entrepreneurs in support programs.
15 thousand entrepreneur candidates will be trained through 750 entrepreneurship training programs for the establishment of successful new businesses.
20 million TL support will be provided to 1000 new entrepreneurs.
15 new Business Development Centers will be established to provide a business environment for new entrepreneurs.
Youth
Our youth are the dynamo of today and the assurance of tomorrow.
Youth is the greatest treasure that nations possess.
Our country has more of this treasure than other countries.
52% of our country's population is under the age of thirty and 34% under the age of twenty.
This is undoubtedly the envy of developed and developing countries alike, and one that they would sacrifice much to achieve.
Focusing on people, AK Party wants our young people to grow up well in the family, in the environment they live in, in schools and social spaces,
He has done a lot of work to help them become conscious individuals and to enrich their internal and external existence through culture and sports.
AK Party considers our youth, who represent the dynamic power of Turkey, as an important resource for the development and progress of our country.
Since 2002, the AK Party has implemented many youth projects to provide our youth with opportunities to express themselves in political, social, commercial and cultural life.
Our goal is to place a well-educated, cultured, self-confident and responsible youth at the center of the strong society of 2023.
Let us list the main things we have done for the youth of our country: By lowering the voting age to 25, we paved the way for greater participation of young people in politics.
Creating equality of opportunity in education,
making the children of families with low and fixed incomes educated and professional people with the means and opportunities provided by the state have been the most important issues for the AK Party.
We put an end to the injustice of the coefficient applied in university entrance exams.
Some comparative data on housing, nutrition, scholarships and loans for higher education youth clearly demonstrate the difference in this area:
Until 2002, loans and scholarships were paid to young people every 3 months.
During our government period, they started to be paid on a monthly basis.
Since 2003, we have provided scholarships or student loans to every university student who applied.
From 1962, when the Higher Education Credit and Dormitories Institution was established, until 2003, the return on loans was only 27.4 million TL, whereas between 2003 and 2011 the return was 2.7 billion TL.
Law No. 6082 was enacted to provide loans and scholarships to young people studying at universities abroad, and to enable the construction, purchase or lease of dormitories in cities abroad where our students are concentrated.
We built 174 new higher education dormitories for our students.
We increased the bed capacity from 188 thousand in 2002 to 249 thousand in 2010.
We launched free Internet access in all dormitories and kindergartens.
We increased the scholarship amount for university students by 433% compared to 2002, from 45 TL to 240 TL today.
We increased the loan for master's students to 480 liras and the loan for doctoral students to 720 liras.
We doubled the number of students using higher education loans, from 450 thousand to 1 million.
We allocated a budget of 270 million TL per year for vocational training to prevent unemployment and train qualified personnel.
We increased the number of students benefiting from study abroad and exchange programs.
With the general amnesty regulation, approximately 800 thousand people who were dismissed from universities for whatever reason, excluding those convicted of terrorism offenses, were given the opportunity to continue their 4-year undergraduate education as well as associate and graduate education.
Thus, we issued the biggest student amnesty in history.
Young people between the ages of 15 and 18 were allowed to establish associations with the permission of their parents.
The number of associations established to engage in youth activities and registered with the General Directorate of Youth and Sports increased from 125 in 2002 to 585 in 2010.
So it increased 5 times.
Compulsory military service was reduced from 18 to 15 months, reserve officer military service from 15 to 12 months and short-term military service from 8 to 6 months.
We opened 55 new Youth Centers between 2002 and 2010, bringing the total number of Youth Centers to 157.
The number of members of Youth Centers increased more than 10 times from 20 thousand in 2002 to 286 thousand in 2010.
We completed and put into service 628 sports halls and 104 multi-purpose halls.
For the first time, we provided tax exemption to the capital companies of young entrepreneurs.
We launched the "100 Thousand Lira Grant Support for 100 Young Entrepreneurs" program that the Ministry of Industry and Trade started in 2009.
We provide 27 thousand TL grant support to young entrepreneurs for company establishment costs and other expenses.
We cover the 15-day SSI premiums of trainees attending courses offered by İŞKUR.
We also pay a fee of 260 TL per trainee.
We have ensured that boys can benefit from health benefits until the age of 25 if they are students, and girls until they get married or get a job.
Our 2023 Goals for Youth
As AK Party, we will carry all the work we have done for our youth to an even higher level.
In the 100th year of our Republic, our youth will have the consciousness to bring our country to the level of contemporary civilizations, and will bring peace, prosperity, prosperity and brotherhood to humanity and their country with the strength they draw from their history.
Our youth will demonstrate the virtue consciousness that the world has difficulty in keeping alive.
Our exemplary youth will build a leading Turkey that is an example in its region.
We will enter 2023 with a more active, entrepreneurial, well-equipped, ethical youth who know how to blend universal values with the values of their own history.
The youth of this country, who will carry our country into the future, is a youth who knows that the differences of each person living above the indivisible homeland soil and under its flag are a richness for itself.
As the AK Party, we are committed to a society that can use technology well,
fluent in their own language and fluent in at least one foreign language,
We aim for all kinds of policies and activities to raise a youth that is open to development and has creative ideas.
On the road to 2023, raising our youth with a civilizational thought and vision,
to ensure that their talents are not wasted
and minimize their concerns about the future.
We have made the youth a stakeholder group in politics.
Thus, young people regained their constitutional rights.
We are establishing a Youth Agency that will provide a more intensive service specific to the youth of the country.
The Youth Agency, whose infrastructure, institutional identity, duties, powers and responsibilities have been determined, will compete with the youth of the world in science through project support and development activities,
It will work to create a youth that will be exemplary in culture and arts and pioneers in social issues.
Young people will play a more active role in decision-making mechanisms.
We will encourage youth membership in civil society organizations.
We will carry out legal, political, economic, social and cultural activities to ensure more effective participation of young people in social decision-making mechanisms.
We will organize a Youth Council every four years to identify the interests, wishes, needs and problems of young people and to develop recommendations accordingly.
We will expand youth centers.
We will encourage young people to implement their own projects in these centers.
In addition to the cooperation with TOKİ in solving the housing and dormitory problem, we will support private dormitories
and provide cheap accommodation for our students.
In 2023, we target a capacity of 600 thousand people in our dormitories under the Credit and Dormitories Institution.
We are switching to single or triple rooms in all dormitories.
In particular, dormitories in holiday resorts will be allocated for our young people to have much cheaper vacations during the summer months.
It will be ensured that these dormitories operate with a membership system similar to the "youth hostels" in Europe during the summer months.
We will establish "youth information points" so that young people can access fast and accurate information on issues that concern them.
We will make vocational schools and vocational training centers even more efficient and effective.
The labor force needed by the industry will thus be provided
and some of the existing obstacles to employment will be overcome.
We will waive the social security premium to be paid by the employer for women and young people employed for the first time for 3 years.
We will expand services for career planning for young people.
We will establish "business establishment and development centers" for young people in cooperation with universities and professional organizations.
We will increase employment by encouraging young people to start their own businesses through the "young people becoming businessmen" and "bring a project, become an entrepreneur" programs.
In this way, an entrepreneurial youth will be Turkey's future hope in economic terms.
We encourage an understanding that seeks "I could not start a business" rather than complaining "I could not find a job".
We will encourage collaborations between universities, the private sector and public institutions and create environments where university students can see and apply theory and practice together.
We will give more initiative to local governments (governorships and municipalities) in identifying and effectively solving youth problems on the ground.
We will expand the rehabilitation and training activities we have been carrying out so far to reintegrate convicted or marginalized young people with substance addiction into society.
We will work for young people to take part and gain experience in international institutions and organizations.
Necessary conditions will be created for young people to benefit more widely from sports and artistic activities
and the number of youth and cultural centers will be made sufficient in all provinces.
We will reduce the rate of young people not in employment and education to 20 percent.
Sport
Sport is not only a means of leisure, but also a very important means of socializing and being a healthy society.
We have made great investments to ensure that all layers of our society are introduced to sports and actively participate in sports activities.
We have opened large, widespread and various sports facilities for our children, young people, elderly people, men and women, and all our citizens to do sports.
As in every field, in the field of sports, Turkey is increasing its influence in the world day by day.
Under AK Party rule, our country has become one of the most important addresses of giant international sports organizations. Let's list some of them:
2005 World UNIVERSIADE Summer Games, Izmir Formula 1 organization (since 2005)
2010 World Basketball Championship / 28 August-12 September
2010 Senior World Weightlifting Championship / 17-30 September Antalya
2010 European Road Cycling Championship / 15-18 July Ankara
2010 World Sea Rowing Championship / 22-25 October Istanbul
2010 World Tri-band Billiards Championship / 15-19 February-Antalya
2010 Shooting Trap Skeet World Cup Final/16-23 September-Izmir
2010 Season World Rally Championship, Rally Of Turkey/ April 15-18-Istanbul
2011 World UNIVERSIADE Winter Games/ January 27-February 6 Erzurum.
The UNIVERSIADE Winter Olympics were held in Erzurum with great success.
The name of our country has once again come to the forefront worldwide.
The 2012 University Games, which Greece could not organize due to economic reasons, will be held in Mersin.
Istanbul was designated as the 2012 World Capital of Sport.
International sports organizations also have a sports tourism dimension.
Turkey, which has reached a very serious diversity in tourism, will also have an important place in sports tourism.
The following data on sports infrastructure and the opportunities and developments provided in the field of sports are indicative of the importance attached by the AK Party government to sports and sports activities.
During the 2002-2010 period, the understanding of building cumbersome facilities closed to athletes was shifted to the understanding of building modern facilities wherever sports are or will be practiced.
As AK Party, we have increased the number of facilities by 500% since 2002.
Between 2003 and 2011, we completed 152 brand new sports facilities and put them into the service of our people.
Since 2002, the resources allocated for the facilityization of sports have been increased by 600%.
With this increased budget, 152 sports facilities were built in 8.5 years, while old, cumbersome and idle sports facilities that could not be used were modernized.
In the 8.5 years of our government, we have completed 114 facilities, most of which were abandoned before 2003.
We are building indoor sports halls in all districts with a population over 10 thousand within a certain program.
We built Olympic-size swimming pools in Antalya, Bursa-Osmangazi, Çorum, Denizli, Diyarbakır, Edirne-Keşan, Elazığ, Gaziantep-Şehitkâmil, İstanbul-Arnavutköy, Hatay-Iskenderun, Giresun, Trabzon, İstanbul-Esenler, İstanbul-Yakacık, İstanbul-Sultanbeyli, İzmir-Narlıdere, Kahramanmaraş, Kayseri, Kırıkkale and Manisa-Salihli.
We supported 1005 facility projects of local administrations with 60 million TL from the general budget.
Our determination to work, which overturned investment records by investing more in Erzurum in just 2 years than the total investment in sports facilities since the establishment of the General Directorate of Youth and Sports in 1938, has reinforced our determination to make an Olympic Games.
As a result of 8.5 years of investment mobilization, we brought Sinan Erdem Sports Hall to Istanbul.
In Ankara, we put the Ankara Sports Hall at the service of our people.
On the one hand, 5,000 and 7,000-seat sports halls are under construction in Trabzon, Diyarbakır, Antalya and Erzurum.
The most concrete example of our investment speed is the fact that we have increased the number of athletics fields from 2 in 2002 to 38 today.
In other words, we achieved a 19-fold increase.
Seyrantepe Stadium, where we can proudly host the favorite football teams of Europe and the world, has been put into service.
In Artvin and Şırnak provinces, there was no indoor sports hall in the city center.
These provinces were provided with sports halls.
Thus, we have no provincial center without an indoor sports hall.
Since 2002, we have increased the number of licensed athletes by 1000%.
We have carried out many activities involving our youth in the country and abroad.
We tried to build Heart Bridges between young people.
After passing the 2004 Athens Olympics with a medal record, we completed the 2008 Beijing Olympics by breaking the participation record in the number of athletes and branches.
We won a total of 27 medals at the UNIVERSIADE in Izmir, whereas we had won only 4 medals in all the university games we had participated in before.
Our giant men, who played in the final of the World Basketball Championship against the USA, made a worldwide sensation and left behind a great admiration.
We won gold medals in athletics, weightlifting, wrestling, wrestling, archery, volleyball, volleyball, athletes with disabilities in European and world championships and 2010 was the year in which we won the highest number of medals in all branches.
We provide 4366 amateur national athletes with scholarships 3 times the monthly loan amount (i.e. 720 TL in 2011).
We opened 42 Sports High Schools, which did not exist in our country before.
Children are directed from primary school onwards to attend Sports High Schools, where they
continue their education and are also trained as athletes.
The Social Support Program (SODES), which has been implemented in GAP and DAP provinces since 2008, has supported more than 1000 sports activities.
In this context, we have put facilities such as playgrounds, playgrounds, playgrounds, sports centers, etc. at the service of our people.
Tens of thousands of people participated in these activities.
Our 2023 Goals in Sports
Turkey in 2023 will be a society of healthy individuals, where citizens get fit through sports.
It will also become one of the main addresses of international sports organizations.
In 2023, there will be no district without a sports facility.
We aim for Turkey to host the Summer and Winter Olympics by 2023.
We aim to have 10 million licensed athletes in 2023. By 2023, there will be no province without a swimming pool.
Before 2023, we will provide multifunctional stadiums to all provinces, especially metropolitan cities.
We will build sports facilities all over the country, for everyone, within walking distance. We will ensure that all schools can conduct their physical education classes in these professional, modern and all-season facilities.
In the 2023 process, the goals we will focus on to host the European Football Championships, the World Youth Olympics and the Winter Youth Olympics and World Winter Olympic Games in Erzurum: European Football Championships, World Youth Olympics and bringing the Winter Youth Olympics and World Winter Olympic Games to Erzurum.
Our ultimate organizational goal is to host the Istanbul World Summer Olympic and Paralympic Games in 2020 or 2024.
Until 2023, we will organize international organizations for disabled youth and athletes in Turkey.
We will expand sports education to pre-school
and ensure that our children engage in different sports branches while receiving education.
We will raise generations who embrace the culture of doing sports, who go beyond being spectators and make sports a part of their daily lives.
We will direct children between the ages of 4-8 to appropriate sports branches through talent screening.
We will increase scholarship opportunities for successful athletes and facilitate their access to education.
We opened a significant number of sports facilities belonging to public institutions, schools and universities for public use.
We will put all public facilities at the service of our people.
Social Security
A strong society is one that secures both the present and the future of its people.
A state that takes care of those who work and looks after those who cannot work is a true social state.
Since the AK Party considers social security as a fundamental right, it has implemented huge reforms in this field as well.
We revolutionized pensions and Universal Health Insurance.
Covering the entire population and all risks, which we envisaged as AK Party in November 2002 within the framework of the Emergency Action Plan
and realized our goal of creating a sustainable social security system.
We gathered three separate social security institutions under one roof.
We established a general health insurance system that aims to provide equal, easily accessible and quality health services to the entire population.
We expanded the scope of social security.
We ensured norm and standard unity among employees.
We created a financially sustainable social security system within the framework of the principle of the blessing-burden balance.
With this reform and subsequent regulations, we have solved the problems faced by our citizens both in the field of general health insurance and pension.
With the General Health Insurance, we have become one of the countries offering the most comprehensive and easily accessible health services in the world.
For the first time, we introduced work accident and occupational disease insurance and maternity insurance for self-employed insured persons.
Self-employed insured persons could not benefit from health benefits even if they owed a single day's premium.
By abolishing this practice, we ensured that those who owe up to 60 days of premium debt can benefit from general health insurance.
In order to be eligible for health benefits, self-employed insured persons were required to pay premiums for 240 days, and contracted workers were required to pay premiums for 90 days for themselves and 120 days for their family members.
We have reduced this period to only 30 days. For the
first time, we have included optional insured persons, children under the age of 18 and citizens who do not have any social security within the scope of general health insurance.
Apprentices, vocational training students in enterprises, trainee lawyers and vocational students are covered by General Health Insurance during their internship.
We have now made it possible for our citizens to go to the hospitals of their choice in case of emergencies and have their treatment at these hospitals without paying any fees.
We have started to cover all of the treatment costs of our citizens related to traffic accidents, regardless of whether they are insured or not, without any bureaucratic procedures or inquiries.
We enabled our citizens with kidney failure to receive treatment at home without going to dialysis centers.
We ended the use of health ration cards.
Our citizens can now benefit from health services electronically with their Turkish ID number.
Bağ-Kur citizens who were disabled from birth or who were unable to work as a result of an accident or illness before the date of their first registration with Bağ-Kur could retire at the age of 60 by paying 25 years of premiums.
With the amendment we have made, the age requirement has been removed for our citizens in this situation
and the premium day requirement has been determined as 11, 12 and 13 years according to the degree of disability.
Our female employees who give birth prematurely will be able to use the leave they could not use before the birth after the birth.
Women who gave birth prematurely were also given the opportunity to receive temporary incapacity allowance for the periods added to their postnatal leave.
We provided serious increases in pensions by pushing all our means.
The lowest civil servant salary was 377 TL in 2002.
In January 2011, we increased this by 149 percent in nominal terms and 16 percent in real terms to 936 TL.
We increased the salary of the lowest paid SSK worker pensioner by 204 percent in nominal terms and 43.4 percent in real terms.
We increased the salaries of the lowest paid SSK agricultural worker pensioners by 226 percent in nominal terms and 53 percent in real terms.
In 2002, our Bağkur pensioners received a salary of 149 TL.
As of January 2011, we have increased this by 326 percent in nominal terms and 99 percent in real terms.
While our Bağkur agricultural pensioners received a salary of 65 TL in 2002, they received an increase of 619 percent in nominal terms and 236 percent in real terms as of 2011;
today they receive a salary of 473 TL.
We expanded social security coverage.
Today, 83 percent of our population is covered by social security.
When we include our citizens with green cards, the rate of our population benefiting from health services reached 96 percent.
We put an end to the ordeal of our pensioners queuing at the bank to receive their pensions.
All pensioners and beneficiaries who receive a pension from the Institution can now receive their income or pension through PTT and 22 banks.
We have also made it easier for our pensioners to receive their pensions at home.
In this way, we offered our citizens a wide range of choices.
We abolished the step system for self-employed insured persons.
We started the practice of declaring the earnings based on the insurance premium, provided that they are between the lower and upper limits of the earnings based on the premium.
We reduced the premium rate for self-employed insured from 40 percent to 33.5-39 percent, depending on the risk of the work.
We have introduced the possibility for self-employed insured in agriculture and village headmen to be insured by paying low premiums.
We brought agricultural workers who had no social security into the scope of social security.
Thus, we offered these citizens the opportunity to benefit from health care, pension, work accident and occupational disease rights.
We offered our self-employed agricultural insured persons the opportunity to be insured according to their new status without deregistering from the chamber if they work in another job.
In addition, we have provided the opportunity for agricultural insured persons over the age of 65 who are registered in the chamber to terminate their insurance coverage even if they continue to be registered in the chamber.
We have given the opportunity to the victims of September 12 to retire by borrowing retrospectively by having their insurance premiums paid by the treasury.
We have made it easier for our artists to retire under easier conditions.
We have also taken care of our drivers who were in the same situation.
Now they will be able to retire by paying insurance premiums under easier conditions.
We also started to provide marriage assistance to orphaned daughters of Bağ-Kur members in the amount of 24 times their monthly salaries in case of marriage.
In this context, we paid a minimum of 8,400 TL as dowry in 2010.
We have introduced the possibility for insured employees who work less than 30 days in a month and for those who are not insured, to borrow these missing periods without any time limit.
We also reduced the insurance coverage of part-time workers from 9000 days to 7200 days, allowing them to retire in a shorter period of time.
We also included housewives who sell their handmade products in the scope of social security as optional insured.
We gave all mothers with disabled children, women with disabled children in need of care, the opportunity to retire five years earlier.
Our 2023 Goals in Social Security
In 2023, all our citizens will be covered by social security and general health insurance;
where no one lives in health, peace and security, without worrying about the future;
At the same time, we envision a social security system that provides sustainable, effective and efficient services.
In order to realize such a vision, in the coming period, we will switch to an electronic archive system and provide our citizens with much faster pension and health transactions.
We will carry out the income determination of our citizens without social security, whose premiums will be covered by the state, electronically by sharing data with relevant institutions.
In this way, we will complete transactions more quickly and prevent irregularities and abuses.
For those employers who have been found to comply with labor and social security legislation for a certain period of time, who take occupational health and safety measures and do not employ unregistered workers, we will make arrangements to demonstrate and reward them.
For employers who pay their premiums regularly for a certain period of time, we will introduce premium incentives proportional to the periods they pay.
In order to solve the problems faced by our workers both in the field of work and in the field of social security in the fastest way possible and to provide better service to our workers and employers, we will establish a common database by ensuring coordination between institutions.
We will fight informality more decisively by increasing the efficiency and number of inspections by sharing information and data electronically with all relevant public institutions and organizations.
We will increase the proportion of our population covered by social security from 83 percent to 100 percent.
Complementary pension systems will be diversified and developed in order to minimize the income losses of employees when they retire.
The ratio of the working population enrolled in complementary pension systems, which is currently 9 percent, is targeted to reach 30 percent.
We will increase the asset-liability ratio, which is very important for the actuarial balance of the social security system, from 1.8 to 2.5.
We will reduce the ratio of the financing deficit of the social security system to GDP below 2 percent
and establish a sustainable financing structure.
We will continue to align social security and health policies with economic, employment and social assistance policies.
Through the fundamental reforms and result-oriented solutions to be implemented in the coming period, we will quickly and effectively solve the problems encountered, while
that will meet the expectations of future generations.
putting in place a secure and sustainable social security system
Poverty Alleviation and Social Supports
Our Constitution defines our state as a "democratic, secular, social state of law."
Unfortunately, until our government, the characteristic of being a "social state" has remained largely in words.
The compassionate hand of the state extended to low-income families and individuals during the period of our governments has been characterized by our opponents as a "charity culture".
However, "sadaqah" is a charity from one's own purse.
The state does not give handouts to its citizens, it provides social support as a right.
There can be no question of our people being "grateful" to the state.
People do not feel "grateful" when the state does its duty, they feel "satisfied".
Because democracy is based on citizen satisfaction, not gratitude.
A state that does not take care of and protect the low-income, the disabled, the elderly, widows, orphans, veterans and people who are the relics of martyrs cannot be a social state.
For the first time in our government, our people started to experience the social state understanding in developed countries.
The goal of the welfare state is not to keep those receiving assistance in need, but to
meet their temporary needs so that they can contribute to reproduction, sharing and social cohesion.
For this reason, we prefer to use the term "social support" instead of "social assistance".
During our period in power, we have paid special attention to social policy and the fight against poverty, based on the understanding that economic policies should be handled in an integrated manner with social policies.
We designed and implemented all other policies, especially the economy, in line with social policy objectives.
We have put "people" at the center of economic development in order to improve income distribution and ensure the success of anti-poverty policies.
We adopted a "people-centered development" approach that prioritizes "social justice" in determining economic and social policies.
We considered "eradicating poverty and reducing the need for social support" among our main tasks with a humanitarian approach.
In designing social supports, we have never lost sight of the fact that poverty is a temporary condition for individuals and families.
As AK Party, within the framework of this understanding and principles, we aim to reduce poverty during our period in power.
We have implemented many reforms and practices to improve income distribution.
On the one hand, we increased per capita social support expenditures and the number of people reached by these aids, and on
the other hand, we restructured social support programs to prevent poverty from becoming permanent.
In addition, we have increased the living standards of low-income groups with the reforms and practices we have realized in every field from urbanization to SMEs, from health to education.
we have spent a total of 60.5 billion TL in social aid expenditures during our government.
In 2002, total social aid expenditure was 1 billion 346 million TL, while we, as AK Party, increased this figure more than 10 times to 12 billion 931 million TL in 2010.
In this context, we reached approximately 10 million citizens in 2010.
We paid special attention to meeting the daily needs of the poor such as food and clothing.
The aid provided by Social Assistance and Solidarity Foundations to those in need to meet urgent and daily needs such as food, fuel and medicine reached approximately 4 billion TL in the period 2003-2010.
We did not only meet the daily needs of the poor.
We have further expanded access to health services for poor citizens to become healthier individuals.
Prior to 2005, only inpatient treatment and inpatient medication costs of Green Card patients were covered by the Ministry of Health, but since the beginning of 2005, we started to cover outpatient treatment and outpatient medication costs as well.
During our period in power, we spent approximately 25 billion TL for our citizens with green cards.
Another important practice is conditional health aids, which aim to ensure that the children of poor families grow up healthier.
Within the framework of conditional health aids, we make regular payments to poor families on condition that their children receive medical examinations.
In this context, each mother is paid 20 TL if she regularly takes her children aged 0-6 to a doctor for check-ups, and 60 TL for women who give birth in a hospital.
For this, we paid a total of 607 million TL between 2003 and 2010.
The most important way to eliminate poverty is education.
Since our understanding is that poverty is no longer a fate, we have attached great importance to making our children more educated.
We have substantially increased education assistance to poor children
and created new social assistance programs that support education.
We ensured that more low-income families and children benefited from equal opportunities through educational material aid, scholarships and conditional education aid, and free book distribution.
At the beginning of each academic year, we met the basic needs of children from low-income families studying in primary and secondary education, such as stationery and aprons.
We provide lunch to poor students who are transported to the centers where schools are located in the transported education practice within the scope of 8-year basic education.
We transport disabled students free of charge.
In this context, we spent 1.8 billion TL during our government period.
Within the scope of conditional education aids, we provided a total of 1 billion 620 million TL in the period 2003-2010.
In 2011, approximately 2.2 million students were provided with 35 TL for female students in primary education on condition that they continue their education,
30 TL for male students,
55 TL for female students in secondary education,
We give 45 TL aid to male students.
We have also increased the number of scholarships and loans and grants provided to students in need.
Between 2003 and 2010, the Ministry of National Education, Yurtkur and the General Directorate of Foundations provided a total of TL 2.9 billion in scholarships to needy students.
We started to distribute free textbooks, which facilitates the lives of parents and students, encourages access to education and reduces the educational expenses of low-income citizens.
Between 2003 and 2010, we distributed a total of 1 billion 437 million TL worth of free textbooks in primary and secondary schools.
With SODES, which started in GAP provinces and then expanded to the DAP region, we have taken great steps towards addressing social problems arising from poverty, migration and urbanization, and the needs arising from the changing social structure.
Within the framework of SODES, we supported 398 projects totaling 42 million TL in 2008 and 778 projects totaling 91.8 million TL in 2009. In
2010, we allocated 150 million TL to 1,187 projects.
We are also sensitive to the needs of the elderly, the disabled and children in need of protection who are unable to work.
We have made significant improvements in regular social assistance to citizens over 65, people with disabilities and children in need of protection.
In this context, the total amount of aid we provided increased from 311 million TL in 2002 to 2.6 billion TL in 2010, and the number of people we helped increased from approximately 1 million to 1 million 400 thousand people.
On the one hand, we support our poor citizens with social support, on the other hand,
we attach great importance to helping them find jobs and become productive individuals.
To this end, we provide project support, vocational trainings and services to make poor people productive and facilitate their access to job search channels.
Within the scope of micro-credit practices that support our women to be more productive and efficient, we have provided 82 million TL loans to 210 thousand women across the country so far.
We register citizens who apply for social assistance or who are eligible for social assistance with İŞKUR.
İŞKUR pays special attention to poor citizens,
develops special vocational training programs for them, and
provides guidance and counseling services to make it easier for them to find a job.
We maintain the green cards of people who participate in vocational training programs.
We suspend the green cards of our citizens who start working in an insured job while they have a green card.
If they leave their job, we immediately reinstate their green card without any further processing.
Microcredit is an important tool to support women in particular to be productive and efficient.
To date, 82 million TL micro-credit has been given to 210 thousand women with their families across the country.
Reaching all segments in need of social support,
We have developed electronic databases and coordination mechanisms to prevent the non-poor from benefiting from these supports.
Thanks to the Social Assistance Information System (SOYBIS), we can now determine the needy status in a very short time with 28 queries from 13 different institutions.
We prevent abuses by allowing different institutions to see each other's records.
Thus, the social support system has been made more effective.
We continue to permanently reduce poverty as a result of the policies we have developed to combat poverty and our comprehensive and effective social support practices.
We reduced the proportion of the population below the hunger line (food poverty) from 1.35 percent to 0.48 percent between 2002 and 2009.
We reduced the poverty rate (the proportion of the population below the poverty line including food and non-food expenditures) from 26.96 percent in 2002 to 18.08 percent in 2009.
While the proportion of our citizens who have to live on an income of less than 2.15 dollars per day was 3.04 percent in 2002, we reduced this rate to 0.22 percent in 2009.
While the proportion of our citizens who have to live with an income of less than 4.30 dollars per day was 30.3 percent in 2002, we reduced this rate to 4.35 percent in 2009. As a
result of the economic and social policies we implemented during our period in power, we achieved significant improvements in income distribution.
Thus, while all segments benefited from economic growth, we ensured that citizens with low income levels in particular received a relatively larger share of this growth.
The Gini coefficient, the most important indicator measuring inequality in income distribution, dropped from 0.44 in 2002 to 0.39 in 2009.
The share of the highest 20 percent income group in total income, which was 9.5 times that of the lowest 20 percent in 2002, dropped to 7.4 times in 2009.
The improvement in the share of total income of the top 10 percent of income quintiles shows the improvement in income distribution much more clearly.
The share of the top 10 percent income group in total income, which was 18.3 times that of the bottom 10 percent in 2002, dropped to 13.2 times in 2008.
Our 2023 Goals in Social Support
As AK Party, we work with all our strength to ensure that there is not a single helpless and hopeless person left,
We have seen providing a dignified life for our people as the most important raison d'être of our party.
We have demonstrated this concern and sincerity in a way that leaves no room for debate with the practices we have implemented during our period in power.
As the government, we will continue our anti-poverty policies with the same determination and add new ones to our social support activities, raising the living standards of our low-income and poor citizens and ensuring that they live more prosperous and peaceful lives.
Our main goal for 2023 is a dynamic Turkey without poverty, with individuals who look to the future with confidence and live in social peace.
Our targets for this are as follows: In 2023, poverty (the proportion of the population below the poverty line, including food and non-food expenditures) will be permanently reduced to below 10 percent.
By 2023, the ratio of social support transfers to GDP will be increased by 2 percentage points to 3 percent.
By 2015, no citizen will be forced to live on less than 2.15 dollars per day.
By 2019, no citizen will have to live on less than 4.3 dollars a day.
With the understanding that poverty is a temporary condition, we will resolutely implement our "social support" program, which aims to support low-income segments in the event of impossibility on the one hand, and to make these segments self-supporting citizens on the other.
In this context, we will establish a social support system where social support and services are provided in an integrated rights-based manner.
We will implement social support and service policies in line with health, employment and education policies.
In the field of social support and services, we will transition to a household-oriented system within the framework of the "Family Social Support Program" (ASDEP) model, along with health, employment and education services.
Thus, family-centered, on-the-spot and immediate fulfillment of citizens' needs
and establish a holistic system to provide guidance services to families.
In the coming period, social support will be provided simultaneously with social services.
For example, when providing social assistance to a family with a disabled person, the disabled person in that family will also be provided with the necessary rehabilitation services without the need for the family to apply.
All these actions will ensure that the needs of the poor are seen, identified and addressed.
Social support will be based on the family situation.
Instead of providing the same type and amount of assistance to each family, the number of people in a family, their age and health status will also be taken into account.
If there are people in the family who can work but are not working, they will be directed to the labor market.
The amount of social support will be enough to lift the poor family out of poverty.
However, poverty in each family is also different.
Some are very poor, while others can be lifted out of poverty with less income support.
Therefore, different amounts of income will be set for each family to enable them to escape poverty.
Within the framework of this model, institutions and organizations in the field of social assistance and services will be restructured under a single roof to provide faster, more effective and efficient services.
While policies and strategies for the provision of social assistance and services will be determined at the center, the implementation of who will benefit from which social assistance and services will be carried out at the local level on a family basis.
Poor citizens who are able to work but not working will be provided with all kinds of support to turn them into productive individuals who can stand on their own feet.
Practices such as student scholarships, free book distribution, food, clothing and fuel aid will continue in the coming period.
If the registered working population also falls into poverty, they will also be supported with social assistance.
This will prevent people from choosing to work informally in order to receive social support
, and all needy people will be able to benefit from the social support system.
We implemented the "Action Plan for Linking the Social Assistance System with Employment and Making it Effective" in 2010.
Within the scope of this action plan, our efforts to transform our poor citizens who are able to work but cannot work into individuals who can stand on their own feet will continue in the coming period.
They will receive job search support and vocational training, as well as
assistance will also be given until they find a job that will make them self-sufficient.
Thus, this segment will both receive social support and
be prepared for the labor market.
SODES, which is an important model in the fight against poverty, will be expanded to GAP and DAP provinces as well as other provinces with low socio-economic development levels.
In order to carry out the social support system effectively and efficiently, the Integrated Social Assistance Services Project and the Scoring Formula Project in cooperation with TUBITAK-SYDGM will be finalized in a short time.
With the completion of this project, the needy status and personal data of our citizens applying for social support will be determined from central databases,
It will be ensured that all social support and services will be managed in norm and standard unity.
The Social Housing Project carried out in cooperation with SYDGM-TOKI will be continued and a total of 100 thousand houses, 50 thousand in the first phase and 50 thousand in the second phase, will be built to be delivered to poor households.
These houses will be provided with an installment of 100 TL per month.
Policies for Disadvantaged Groups
A strong society is one that empowers its disabled citizens as much as its physically and psychologically able citizens,
who watches over them,
is a society that provides every opportunity for their participation in social life.
This is a requirement of being a social state.
AK Party's main goal is to make people with congenital or acquired disadvantages respected, active and productive members of society.
Because Turkey will become a strong society not only by empowering those who can afford it, but also by empowering those who cannot afford it.
The 2010 constitutional amendment stipulated that regulations in favor of children, the elderly, families of martyrs and all disadvantaged groups would not be contrary to the Constitution's principle of equality.
In our 8.5 years in power, we have provided a warm heart and widespread opportunities to the disabled, the elderly, children in need of protection, families of martyrs, veterans and invalids, the needy, the strange and the poor.
We have made great progress in this area.
We have made great reforms with the awareness and responsibility of being a social state.
We have bigger, more striking works in the pipeline...
Towards 2023, we have planned very important works for all segments of society in need of protection and care.
Before listing these actions and the big things we have planned, let us first state our overall vision of social services for 2023.
Our 2023 Goals in Social Services
We will make Turkey a model country with universal approaches in the field of social services.
We will develop multifaceted social service policies that can produce international solutions to social problems.
Specialization of social services in the fields of family, women, children, youth, disabled, elderly and homeless will be ensured.
We will ensure the establishment of a social service counseling system that can reach every family by providing support to the family within the family for the protection of family integrity and strong and happy families.
Within the scope of increasing the effectiveness of voluntary services and local administrations in protective and preventive social services, the Family Social Support Program (ASDEP) will be implemented.
We will take all measures to ensure that every individual is more sensitive to children's rights and women's rights through non-formal and formal education.
Based on the dignity of women, we will develop employment policies to ensure that our victimized women staying in women's guesthouses with modern physical conditions become self-sufficient and hold on to life firmly.
Trained care staff will be provided to individuals in need of care.
Homeless people between the ages of 18-60 will be provided with social support and shelter.
Social services carried out centrally will be localized and delivered to those in need through local administrations.
We will ensure that all institutions providing social services work in coordination.
We will expand Interactive Social Service Delivery, which will ensure easy access to social services for all citizens.
We will open Social Service Information Offices in universities to promote social services.
People with disabilities
Our citizens with disabilities should have the same level of welfare, education, health and other social services as other citizens in all respects, so that we can build the strong society of the future, Turkey.
In this respect, our government has provided services and opportunities to our disabled people many times more than the rights and opportunities given to them before.
We have achieved great things to ensure that they are valued, equal and contributing citizens who contribute to their families, their communities and our country.
But we have also raised the bar for the disabled.
Our 2023 vision envisages the removal of all obstacles in front of the disabled.
With the Law on Disabled Persons, we have taken measures to solve the problems of disabled people regarding their health, education, rehabilitation, employment, care and social security and to ensure their development in all respects and to remove obstacles in front of them.
One of the most important of these arrangements is the support for home care of disabled people in need of care.
With this scheme, SHÇEK pays a monthly minimum wage to the family for disabled people who are cared for by their families.
In this context, a total of 2 billion 970 million TL was paid between 2006 and 2011.
The General Directorate of Foundations also pays pensions to our needy, disabled and orphans.
As of 2011, we are paying 330.6 TL per month to some of our needy, disabled and orphans.
During our period in power, we increased the pensions granted to disabled people who are unable to work or who cannot find a job by 2 to 3 times and expanded their scope.
we ensured that all disabled children in need benefit from special education and rehabilitation centers free of charge.
We provide free shuttle services for disabled children studying in special education classes.
Within the scope of free textbook distribution, for the first time in Turkey, hundreds of books were produced and distributed in Braille for visually impaired children and young people.
We cover all insurance premiums paid by employers who employ disabled workers.
We also gave the right to voluntary early retirement to disabled people working on their own behalf.
We introduced a one-fourth early retirement right for women insured persons with disabled children in need of care.
We exempted a house owned by a disabled person from property tax.
In order to support people with disabilities, we exempted all kinds of tools and equipment and special computer programs specially produced for their education, professions and daily lives from Value Added Tax.
We have made it compulsory to make all public roads, sidewalks, pedestrian crossings, open and green areas, sports fields and similar social and cultural infrastructure areas, buildings and urban public transportation vehicles suitable for the use of disabled people.
We introduced a penalty provision for discriminatory practices against the disabled.
Starting from 2010, we excluded the employment of disabled people in the public sector from the staff limitations.
With this amendment, public institutions and organizations were enabled to use all of their quotas for the disabled in 2010.
In 2002, while the number of disabled civil servants employed in public institutions was 6103, we increased it to 19 thousand as of 2010, in other words, we tripled it.
We increased the number of workers employed in public and private sector from 10,883 in 2002 to 32,257 in 2010.
So we tripled the number.
With an amendment to the Civil Servants Law, we made it possible for personnel with a disabled spouse, child or sibling to be assigned to a province or district where these relatives can receive education.
We granted public employees with disabled family members the right to 1 hour of leave per day for care.
Our main goal is for people with disabilities to have access to rights and services in all areas like everyone else.
The Accessibility Strategy and Action Plan includes holistic and systematic efforts by central and local government institutions to create barrier-free living environments.
Its main objective is to improve the quality of life of disabled people in need of care and their families,
We also launched the Care Services Strategy and Action Plan, which aims to make care services accessible, more comprehensive, of high quality and financially sustainable for all.
We present a summary of our actions for the disabled...
Since 2006, we started to pay one full minimum wage to the caregiver (mother, sister, aunt, etc.) for each disabled person cared for at home.
So far, 284 thousand disabled people have been included in this scope.
In order for our disabled people under care to continue their lives in a more comfortable environment, we started to implement the "Barrier-Free Living Center".
Currently, 93 shelters provide services with a maximum of 12 disabled people in each house.
We provide temporary and "guest" care in SHÇEK Care Centers for disabled people who are being cared for by their families due to their special circumstances.
Our 2023 Goals for People with Disabilities
Our 2023 target is to ensure that minimum standards for housing, transportation, communication and working conditions are met so that disabled people can lead their social and economic lives more easily.
and spread across the country,
is a Turkey where people with disabilities are freed from the feeling of social exclusion.
By 2023, our green flag and labeled Barrier-Free Zone project will rapidly bear fruit
and a disabled-friendly transformation will now be everywhere.
The aim is to get our disabled people out on the streets,
participation in all aspects of community life.
We will give importance to the participation of people with disabilities in business life and to gain skills to sustain their own lives.
Full participation and accessibility of persons with disabilities in social life in cities will be ensured.
Based on the understanding that social service for the disabled is a right; we will provide more employment opportunities for the disabled who are able to work.
Our elderly
Our elders are our beings who have laid the foundation of our present, who have given us life, education, manners, culture and a view of the world.
That is why we look at our elderly as our wealth, not as a burden.
As a social state, it is essential to ensure that they live a comfortable, healthy and prosperous life.
It is a fundamental element of our culture to respect and honor our elderly as sources of virtue and experience in our family and social life, instead of leaving them alone and needy and condemning them to places outside of social life.
Our government has taken measures to improve the living conditions of our elderly, and
in this context, has carried out great health, social and cultural services for our elderly.
According to 2050 indicators, Turkey will be added to the rapidly aging countries of the world.
For this, we are already taking measures to prevent the aging of our population.
In a pilot project, we opened Geriatrics (elderly health) outpatient clinics in state hospitals in Kayseri, Adana, Izmit, Gölcük and Kırıkkale.
We ensured that our elderly people applying to these hospitals receive easy and fast service.
We ensured that our elderly people who receive old age pension receive a green card to cover their health expenses such as medicines, orthotics, prostheses and glasses in outpatient treatments.
With the amendment made to Article 10 of the Constitution, positive discrimination was introduced for women, the elderly, the disabled, widows and orphans of martyrs, and it was constitutionally guaranteed that citizens in this section would not be subjected to discrimination.
After this constitutional amendment, we started working to ensure that elderly, disabled and women are subjected to positive discrimination in hospital outpatient clinics and receive treatment in separate outpatient clinics in hospitals affiliated to the Ministry of Health.
Senior citizens aged 85 and over now receive their salaries at home via PTT.
While the old age pension was 65 TL every 3 months in 2002, we increased it to 210 TL in 2011.
So we increased it 3.5 times.
As of 2011, the lowest SSK pension is 740 TL,
the lowest BAGKUR pension' to 597 TL,
the lowest SSK agricultural pensioner pension to 577 TL,
We increased the lowest BAGKUR agricultural pensioner pension to 451 TL.
In 2002, 4952 elderly people were served in 63 nursing homes, while as of 2010, we serve 7741 elderly people in 96 nursing homes.
We have improved physical conditions and service standards, and
we are constantly working to improve them further.
We have reduced the number of elderly people living in rooms in order to make nursing homes more livable,
reorganized them to accommodate 1 and/or 2 elderly people.
We launched the Elderly Home project in Ankara in 2010, which was developed for the care of the elderly in the community and at home, and we plan to expand it.
We prepared the "National Action Plan on the Status of the Elderly and Ageing in Turkey".
With the new arrangement made in our institutions where children, youth, elderly and disabled people are cared for, we have made improvements to ensure that the "care and cleaning" staff employed are trained and sufficient in number.
As of 2010, we established 5 Elderly Service Centers that provide social-psychological support services at home for the elderly who do not prefer nursing home care.
We amended the articles of the Turkish Penal Code on "qualified theft" and "qualified looting" and increased the penalties to be imposed by one third if the offense is committed against the disabled and elderly.
Our 2023 Goals for the Elderly
Our goal is to provide social and economic support to all our elderly people so that they can continue their lives without separating them from their homes and social circles.
It will diversify the services we provide for them to live a safe, comfortable, healthy and happy life,
and improve its quality.
We will give our elderly people, who are unfortunately pushed into loneliness in old age and deprived of spiritual support and family warmth by providing only material support, the place they deserve in family and social life.
We will develop the home care system, the groundwork for which was laid in our previous periods, and
provide care support to our elderly people with health and social problems in the environments where they live.
By 2023, we will increase the capacity of nursing homes.
We will improve their living standards and offer them to the service of our elderly people in need.
We will open places called "Elderly Nurseries" for our elderly who need day care
and with these places we will ensure that our elderly are not left alone.
We will establish an "Institute of Aging".
We will bring together the work carried out for our aging population under a single roof.
We will carry out all services in this field under an institutional framework.
Raising awareness of the elderly about their legal rights
We will establish the necessary communication channels to ensure that they can easily receive the assistance they need from official institutions.
Children in Need of Protection
Caring for our needy and vulnerable people is one of the most important areas in our goal of becoming a strong society.
Our orphaned, vulnerable and helpless children are not just to be looked after,
We see them as individuals who will build the future and serve our nation.
It will multiply and increase what we do for them,
we will raise its quality even higher.
Some of the actions we have taken in this field are as follows: While the amount of monthly cash assistance provided by SHÇEK was 57.6 TL per person in 2002, we quadrupled this amount to 235 TL in 2011.
In addition, SHÇEK provides institutional care services to children in need of protection, and
these children can be adopted, fostered or
They can be cared for in foster care or with their own families.
By the end of 2010, there were 4169 children in 78 children's homes and 4769 youth in 97 orphanages.
As of today, 32 thousand young people under protection who have completed the age of 18 have been employed in public institutions and organizations.
In kindergartens and orphanages, we transformed wards for 20-25 people into rooms for 3-6 people.
We opened 23 Care and Social Rehabilitation Centers to overcome the trauma and behavioral disorders of children who have been emotionally, sexually or physically abused.
In 2002, there was one care worker for every 30 people, but we raised the standards of care in social service institutions.
We employ certified care workers with at least a vocational high school or high school diploma who provide services to 6 disabled people in one shift at Disabled Care Centers, 6-8 children at Children's Homes, and 15 elderly people at Nursing Homes.
Since 2005, we have been providing financial support to children of low-income families.
We ensure that children are cared for by their families rather than in orphanages.
In this context, we provide financial support to 36 thousand children.
children under SHÇEK care can feel the security and warmth of a home and family environment, where they can
learn about social life, neighborhood relations, customs and traditions of the society.
We are expanding the number of "Children's Houses" where 5-6 children stay together, where
Currently, 1813 children are cared for and educated in 323 Children's Homes.
In order to reduce the negativities of the ward-type structure of kindergartens and orphanages, we launched "Houses of Love".
Currently, 2224 children are accommodated in 37 Sevgi Evi sites, i.e. 280 villa-type houses.
Thanks to the family environment provided by the model of Children's Homes and Houses of Love, the school success of our children in this age group has also increased.
While in 2002 the success rate of our children in ÖSS was 31%, this rate more than doubled and reached 70% in 2010.
While 515 children were benefiting from foster care services in 2002, this number increased to 1227 by the end of 2010, i.e. more than doubled.
We have accelerated our efforts to provide a warm home for children with no parental ties.
To date, we have adopted 11 thousand children and provided them with a family environment.
With the Return to Family and Homestay Support Program, children have not been taken under protection on the grounds of economic poverty since 2005.
Thus, our children in need are not separated from the warmth of their own family.
We are also returning children who were previously taken under protection for these reasons to their families.
We support them with their own families.
In this context, we have so far supported 30 thousand children with their families.
In order to raise children with the values of the society, we organized houses for 6-8 children in residential neighborhoods.
The number of homes established is 284, with 1124 children in actual care.
We opened Protection, Care and Rehabilitation Centers, which are inpatient social service institutions where children who are identified to be involved in crime are provided with temporary care and protection until the rehabilitation process is completed in order to eliminate behavioral disorders.
We currently serve 137 children in 8 centers.
We provide rehabilitation services to 354 children in 23 centers to overcome trauma and/or behavioral disorders resulting from negative life experiences of children who have been identified as emotionally, sexually and/or physically abused.
By 2015, we will increase the number of centers to 39.
Our 2023 Goals for Children in Need of Protection
It will increase the services, assistance and support currently provided to ensure that our children in need of protection become equal and productive members of our strong society in the future,
and we will make it better quality.
Our aim here is to support children in need of protection in warm, natural and social family environments that do not require the need for protection in the first place.
As we make public services more widespread and of higher quality, we actually reduce the need for protection for our children.
But as long as we have children in need of protection, giving them love and affection,
At the same time, our aim is to make the services and institutions that prepare them for the future both adequate and of high quality.
In our 2023 vision, we will pursue the following goals for this purpose: Expand education, care and health services to develop children's innate intelligence and abilities
and strengthen equal opportunities.
We will further increase efforts for early childhood development in the 0-6 age group, where the development of brain structure and function is completed,
and we will attach importance to pre-school education within this framework.
We will provide services for children in need of protection in a structure that will support their social and personal development and integration into society.
We will ensure the establishment of a "Children's Ombudsman" on the basis of a "Children's Rights Culture" in which the best interests of the child are prioritized and based on the full participation of the individual, family, society and the state.
Based on the view that every child must live with a family, we will expand the "Professional Foster Family or Adoption System" to cover all children in this situation instead of institutional care for children with social deprivation.
We will provide all kinds of social support to mothers who live alone with their children, including "Studio Houses" with housing priority, so that they can lead safer and healthier lives without being separated from their children.
By the end of 2014, we will support 45 thousand children through the "Return to Family and Homestay Support Program".
By the end of 2014, we will put 25 more Love Home sites (150 villa-type houses) into operation.
We will ensure that the statements and declarations of all children who are in conflict with the law, who have been dragged into crime or are victims of crime, are collected in a single center and necessary measures are taken to protect these children against all kinds of trauma and abuse.
We will initiate "School Social Services" in secondary education institutions with institutional cooperation to prevent drug and alcohol abuse and violence.
We will increase the number of Protection, Care and Rehabilitation Centers to 17 by 2015.
Widows and Orphans of Martyrs, Invalids and Veterans
Those who sacrificed their lives, the most valuable assets, in defense of our homeland are both the source of honor of this society and the heroes to whom we are grateful.
As the AK Party government, we have never left the spouses, children, families, veterans and invalids of our martyred security forces unprotected, needy and unbowed.
In order to be a strong society, it is necessary to take care of the rights of those who have given their lives for the security of that society, those who have been injured, disabled and veterans.
With this awareness, we have implemented many new and effective supports for the families of our martyrs, veterans and disabled people.
Let us mention some of these: We pay pension bonuses to those in need of care and to the widows and orphans of the deceased at the highest civil servant salary, and to other invalids at their current salary, as if they were civil servants with 30 years of service.
The widows and orphans of those who have become disabled due to their duties within the scope of the Anti-Terrorism Law and who are entitled to a pension (except for those who live in specially allocated residences specified in the Public Housing Law) can continue to benefit from public housing for one year.
For those who leave at the end of this period, those who do not benefit from public housing, and those who live in specially allocated housing, we cover the rental cost of the real estate in the country that they will use as their residence for 10 years if they wish.
We provide free of charge accommodation to our terrorism invalids who have difficulty in maintaining their daily lives in public institutions and organizations or in private dormitories and nursing homes.
We provide interest-free housing loans to our invalids according to priority ranking and for one time only.
Family members of our martyrs can benefit from the interest-free 60,000 TL housing loan provided by TOKİ as soon as they receive a martyr's pension.
The installments of this housing loan are deducted from the martyr's pension at a rate of 1/4 and continue under the same conditions until the debt is paid off.
To date, 14,000 relatives of martyrs have benefited from this loan.
Civil servants and public officials who have been injured or disabled in acts of terrorism, and the widows and orphans of those who have been martyred, can be examined and treated in all hospitals belonging to public institutions and organizations as long as the promotion granted by the Pension Fund.
The lost limbs of those who are disabled are replaced with artificial limbs that can be made in Turkey or abroad according to the latest technical procedures,
repaired or replaced if necessary.
We have employed 10 thousand relatives of martyrs until today.
We provide employment opportunities in public institutions and organizations to one of the spouses, children or siblings of public officials, privates, conscripts and temporary and voluntary village guards who were martyred due to terrorism.
We do not charge co-payment for medicines and medical supplies provided for outpatient treatment from our martyrs' families and veterans.
We do not charge any difference from all kinds of orthotics, prostheses and other healing tools and equipment they need.
We cover all of them without any restrictions (duration, etc.).
The children of war invalids and martyrs are paid a lump sum once a year in the amount of 1250 for primary school students, 1875 for high school students and 2500 for higher education students, multiplied by the civil servant monthly coefficient.
We gave the children of war invalids and martyrs the opportunity to benefit from State Free Boarding without examination.
We give priority to the children of martyrs and disabled veterans from the quota of students to be educated free of charge, not less than 3 percent of the number of students studying in privately owned kindergartens, primary and secondary schools, classrooms, courses, motor vehicle drivers' courses, student study training centers, in-service training centers, special education and rehabilitation centers.
We place all children of martyrs and veterans in dormitories with priority among students pursuing higher education.
We host them in dormitories during their education period without charging dormitory fees and deposits.
We also prioritize higher education loans.
We do not charge higher education contributions to the children of martyred personnel who are studying at higher education institutions.
We do not consider service points and ranking in the relocation of teachers who are spouses of martyrs.
We provide the children of martyrs who will be enrolled in primary education institutions or transferred between schools with the opportunity to study in the schools of their choice upon their request.
We provide scholarships to students whose parents have been martyred for the duration of their education, provided that they continue to be a student.
In the sports competitions to be held in the facilities to be used by the General Directorate of Youth and Sports, we allocate special places for our war and duty disabled veterans who have been given a "Veteran Identity Card".
We deduct the monthly amounts determined according to the degrees of disability from the income tax based on the wage of the employee.
We exempted all kinds of specially produced tools and equipment and special computer programs from Value Added Tax.
We granted many tax exemptions to our invalids and families of martyrs.
One of the siblings jointly requested by the father and mother, or if one of the father or mother is deceased, one of the siblings requested by the surviving sibling, is not taken under arms unless he/she is willing, or if he/she is under arms, he/she is demobilized.
We provide discounts on water and electricity consumed in households.
Our martyr families and veterans can benefit from the social facilities of public institutions and organizations.
We facilitate the appointment of relatives of martyrs who serve as civil servants.
We provide convenience in dealership licenses issued by the National Lottery Administration.
We give the right to benefit from the Hajj quota.
We give priority to the spouses, children, mothers and fathers of our martyrs who are in need of assistance, care and protection in SHÇEK's children's homes, orphanages, nurseries and day care centers, nursing homes, care and rehabilitation centers, women's guesthouses and elderly counseling centers.
The widows and orphans of our martyrs and veterans, who have been provided with all kinds of constitutional and legal guarantees in the past period, should be provided with all kinds of health, rehabilitation, education, care, income to live humanely, and primarily to have a job and profession.
and it is our duty of conscience and honor to ensure that they never feel orphaned and unprotected.
Everything that needs to be done in all these matters will be done in full.
Foundations
One of the unique aspects of our civilization is that it has a very strong foundation tradition.
Altruism, thinking of others, caring for others, volunteering to serve others, dedicating your existence to the future of society are very important virtues.
Therefore, foundations are our lifeblood that carry our past to the present.
Foundations are also the most important bridges that connect our present to the future.
One of the important actors of contemporary civil society is foundations.
In other words, foundations are not only about history, they are also about the present and future of society.
Our government has made huge efforts to keep our historical foundations and foundation works alive.
However, by paving the way for today's foundations, it has also made great contributions to supporting the social services of civil actors outside the state.
The AK Party government has carried out the maintenance, repair and restoration of the ancestral foundation cultural assets established through foundations with great care.
While 56 monuments were restored between 1996 and 2002, we carried out restoration works on 3484 monuments between 2003 and 2010.
In other words, we increased the number of restored monuments 70 times in 8.5 years.
We spent approximately 1 billion TL for this.
We have increased the budget of the General Directorate of Foundations, which allocates approximately 50% of its income to investment every year without receiving any contribution from the Treasury, many times more than in previous years.
While the budget of the Agency was 44 million TL in 2003, the budget for 2011 is projected to be 401 million TL.
So it has increased 10 times.
In recent years, by applying modern management techniques, we have brought a wide range of cultural and civilizational artifacts to humanity.
Repairs have been completed on masterpieces such as Süleymaniye, Üsküdar Selimiye, Yeni Camii Hünkâr Pavilion, Yenikapı Mevlevihanesi, and inns and caravanserais in the four corners of our country.
On the other hand, as a result of these efforts, the ancestral foundation real estates were saved from the derelict and idle state in which they had remained for years and were utilized.
Thus, with a total investment of 1 billion 750 million TL between 2003 and 2010, 60 thousand people were employed and a total rental income of 450 million TL was generated.
No expenditures were made from the budget of the General Directorate of Foundations in these investments, which were realized by mobilizing the means of the private sector.
Our 2023 Goals for Foundations
We see foundations as the 3rd sector together with other NGOs.
In addition to the investments and efforts of the state and the private sector, the full utilization of our national power potential means that the third sector is engaged as it should be.
The necessary infrastructure has been prepared for foundations to be more active and effective in education, health and other social fields.
The period towards 2023 will be a period of leaps and bounds.
Instead of leaving our foundation works idle and letting them eventually fall into disrepair, we adopt the approach of protecting and using them in accordance with the concept of foundation.
As AK Party, we are committed to protecting the foundation heritage
and keeping it alive, developing the understanding of foundation
and we will work with great effort and dedication to bring this understanding to the young people who are the guarantee of our tomorrow.
We aim to complete the restoration of approximately 10 thousand cultural assets in accordance with their original design and to leave no monument without a project.
We will also make arrangements for the reproduction of the foundation tradition, which is the institutional carrier of our civilizational values.
In this way, we will ensure that our foundations, which have maintained their vitality from the past to the present, will be carried into the future.
Livable Environment and Brand Cities
JUNE 12 GENERAL ELECTIONS
Election
Declaration
Target Brand Cities Livable Environment Water Resources Forests Waste Management Environmentally Friendly Transportation Clean Energy Resources Livable Cities Infrastructure Services Urban Transportation Housing Urban Transformation
Property and Development Planning Barrier-Free Cities Disaster Management Local Governments Urban Policies for Global Competitiveness Istanbul Ankara Izmir Regional and Rural Development
AK Party adopts as its main policy the establishment of a rational, humane and global balance between protecting the environment and becoming a development and welfare society.
Our Party does not support insensitivity to the environment for any reason whatsoever.
and recognizes the postponement of measures to be taken in this direction as a violation of the "right to the environment", one of the fundamental human rights.
Our environment is our ancestral heritage, our mother's lap, our only treasure.
The heirs of this treasure are our children and the entire human family.
The environment is a whole with its people, nature and cultural assets; it cannot be fragmented.
We consider the destruction of people, nature and cultural assets for the sake of enrichment as theft of the rights of future generations and hidden impoverishment.
By destroying hearts and destroying nature and cultural assets in the name of development, we can only impoverish our future.
Our understanding of the environment, which is based on a "global" perspective rather than a one- or two-dimensional one, guides all of our policies and
leads us to show great determination and effort to reveal the natural richness and cultural values of our country, to revive them, to keep them alive and to develop them further by enriching them.
Target Brand Cities
Throughout history, our civilization has built unique cities that set an example for humanity.
However, until the AK Party came into service, our cities were not properly protected, not
given the value they deserved
and almost rendered unlivable.
This is an undeniable fact.
For this reason, the development of our cities, which are the living spaces in which we live, where we raise our children, in other words, where we shape our future, and the development of our country within the framework of 2023 targets,
increasing the welfare of our people,
"brand cities" in different fields to be ready for competition and cooperation.
One of the main priorities of our Party's 2023 vision is to establish cities that carry the traces of tradition with faithful care, while at the same time having all the infrastructure and superstructures that a modern city should have.
With AK Party's 2023 Vision, every city in Turkey will become a World Brand.
Our cities will be transformed into centers of attraction that are not abandoned but sought after, longed for, revitalized and revitalizing.
Our Party will "uncompromisingly" implement the EU standards, the Kyoto Protocol and the decisions of the Cancun Climate Change Conference in Mexico for development in environment and urbanism.
Our 2023 vision is to create "livable environment and cities" with minimized traffic problems, easy transportation, clean air and nature, high level aesthetics integrated with history and culture, effective, sensitive, transparent administrations, strong economy, peaceful and happy people.
With the AK Party Vision 2023, our land will be fertile and green, our seas safe and blue, our waters abundant and clear, and our future happy and white.
With the AK Party's 2023 Vision, our air, water and nature will be clean,
our cities will be livable and calm, and our people will be peaceful and grief-free.
Livable Environment
In line with the principles of sustainable development, our Party considers our environmental, cultural and historical values as our fundamental permanent wealth.
Our goal is to create a structure that will maximize the permanent quality of life with a global environmental management system at international standards by establishing the most appropriate balance between economic development and the environment.
The AK Party government has realized many projects in line with the environmental policies outlined above, some of which are as follows: While the Air Quality of our country could be measured with 16 semi-automatic devices until 2003, today it is measured with fully automatic devices at 117 stations in 81 provinces and the measurement results are instantly announced to our people on the internet.
Numerous projects have been carried out to reveal and protect the biological and cultural richness of our country.
Reconstruction, construction and renovation activities are carried out with increasing environmental sensitivity.
Our coastal and marine areas are effectively protected against environmental pollution in parallel with developing scientific data and technologies.
The AK Party government has made huge investments to protect the environment.
Some data on investments realized for this purpose are as follows:
The environment chapter, which is one of the most difficult chapters in the EU accession process and the last to be negotiated by other countries, was opened for negotiations on December 21, 2009.
On August 26, 2009, Turkey signed the Kyoto Protocol in order to ensure that Turkey has a more effective voice in decisions taken to combat climate change.
At the Conference of the Parties on Climate Change in Cancun, Turkey secured the adoption of an article containing its special conditions.
Our 2023 Goals for a Livable Environment
The number of Air Quality Measurement and Monitoring Stations will be doubled
and air quality will be at EU standards by 2023.
The presence of biodiversity will be identified throughout the country
and the scientific and technological infrastructure required for its conservation will be established.
Sectoral policies for climate change adaptation and greenhouse gas limitation will be emphasized.
By expanding the use of clean technologies in production and other human activities, pollution will be reduced at source.
An effective system utilizing information and communication technologies will be established in environmental inspection and management.
The fight against noise pollution, an important environmental problem in large settlements, will be accelerated.
Noise maps of roads, railways and major airports will be prepared
and necessary measures will be taken without compromise.
Within the scope of EU standards: The commitments set out under Chapter 27 "Environment" of the National Program, which sets out a broad political and economic reform agenda for Turkey and entered into force at the end of December 2008, will be implemented and monitored.
Harmonization studies will be completed with the ever-evolving European Union Environmental Acquis under areas such as Air Quality, Waste Management, Water Quality, Nature Protection, Chemicals Management, Industrial Pollution Control and Risk Management, Genetically Modified Organisms, Noise Management.
In particular, the harmonization of the "Framework and Horizontal Legislation", which is based on standards and quality of environment rather than technological approach, will be accelerated.
Sectoral changes in the European Union Environmental Acquis will be continuously monitored
and national legislation will be enriched.
Drafts such as the Framework Water Protection Law, the Clean Air Law, and the Nature Protection Law, which are currently under study, will be enacted into law.
The procedures for inclusion in the "International Environmental Conventions and Protocols" to which the European Union is a party will be completed.
In the process of full accession to the European Union, legislative harmonization will be on the agenda as a priority issue.
Turkey will continue to fully comply with the requirements of the European Union Environmental Acquis, which includes more than 560 pieces of legislation, including 300 directives, and to provide the conditions to reflect them in practice.
"Environmental information infrastructure", one of the tools used in environmental management, will be strengthened in cooperation with relevant and effective NGOs
and dissemination will be ensured.
Apart from these, it will constitute the basis of the environmental policies of the whole world in the coming period;
EU standards on Climate Change, Biodiversity, Environmental Health and Sustainable Development will be realized.
Water Resources
Water is the source of life and civilization.
Our government has succeeded in implementing very large projects on water: 194 dams and ponds were constructed in 8.5 years;
Ermenek Dam, the highest dam in Turkey, was completed;
Çine Adnan Menderes Dam, the largest dam in its class in Europe, was put into service;
1 million hectares of agricultural lands have been watered with 145 irrigation facilities since 2002
and thus 5.5 million hectares of the 8.5 million hectares of economically irrigable agricultural lands of our country have started to be irrigated.
In 8.5 years, 549 flood protection facilities were constructed and 139,000 hectares of land were protected from floods.
Thus, 900 facilities were put into service between 2002-2011.
The drinking water needs of 81 provinces were planned and 25 million citizens were provided with quality drinking and potable water.
Thirst has ceased to be a "fate". The
"1000 Ponds in 1000 Days Project" was launched,
250,000 hectares of land were irrigated and employment opportunities were provided for 300,000 citizens.
In the coming period, not even a drop of water should be wasted, used and evaluated efficiently
and many projects will be implemented to keep it clean:
The SCADA application initiated to reduce loss and leakage rates in drinking water networks and the practice of constructing the networks with pipes made of suitable materials will be expanded in the coming period.
A "holistic water resources management model" will be adopted in legal and institutional terms, covering both surface and ground water resources.
Thus, all water basins will be under absolute protection,
prevention strategies against pollution will be developed
and public participation will be ensured. In
all 25 river basins, "River Basin Management Plans" will be prepared,
water quality in all rivers will be monitored by automatic monitoring stations
and 75% realization of water quality targets at EU standards will be achieved.
All 8.5 million hectares of our country's economically irrigable land will be irrigated.
There will be no land without water.
No municipality will be left without drinking water and wastewater infrastructure, and
sufficient drinking water will be provided for our population until 2040.
Forests
Our civilization is a green civilization.
Our Party, which considers green as a trust left by our ancestors to be passed on to future generations, has realized very important projects related to forests.
Turkey has been one of the rare countries to increase its forest cover during the period of our government.
While afforestation and rehabilitation of degraded forests were carried out on an average of 75,000 hectares per year between 1992-2002, this figure was increased 7-fold between 2003-2009 and 501,387 hectares were afforested and degraded forests were rehabilitated.
In 2008, 2009 and 2010, work was carried out on a total area of 1,448,274 hectares and 814 million saplings were planted.
We ranked among the top three in the world in afforestation.
We have enriched our forest cover and increased it to 21.6 million hectares.
With the urban forest project we launched in 2003, we have established 89 new urban forests, 69 in provincial centers and 20 in districts.
Currently, all areas are being utilized and roadsides, school gardens, hospital and mosque courtyards and cemeteries are being afforested.
We have provided Turkey with a powerful forest fire suppression system that can help neighboring countries in the fight against forest fires at any time.
Our 2023 Goals in Forestry
Our forest areas will be increased to 23.3 million hectares, which is 30% of our national territory.
We will increase the number of National Parks to 50 and the number of Nature Parks to 55.
The number of urban forests will be doubled.
Title deed and registration procedures of all our forests will be completed.
Waste Management
In 2002, 15 solid waste sanitary landfills served a population of 23 million, while today 59 sanitary landfills serve a population of 41 million in 751 municipalities.
As for hazardous wastes, while 80,000 tons of waste was disposed of with 18 facilities in 2002, today it has increased to 2,000,000 tons with 145 facilities.
Our 2023 Goals in Forehead Management
Solid waste and medical waste disposal facilities will be completed rapidly and all wastes will be disposed of properly.
Landfill practice will be completely eliminated,
solid waste sanitary landfill facilities will be constructed through local administration unions and will be expanded to serve the entire municipal population.
The recycling rate of packaging waste will be increased from 38% to 60%.
The movement of hazardous wastes from the point of generation to final disposal and recovery facilities will be managed through an electronic recording and tracking system;
uncontrolled disposal of hazardous and toxic wastes will be prevented.
Efforts to recycle waste and generate electricity and heat energy from waste will be accelerated.
Green Transportation
One of the factors causing environmental pollution is transportation vehicles.
In addition to increasing urbanization, the intensification of passenger and freight traffic at both national and international level increases the pollution caused by transportation vehicles.
Transportation vehicles account for 13% of the total carbon dioxide and equivalent emissions in Turkey.
Emissions from transportation are 85% from road, 1% from rail, 3% from maritime and 11% from air.
Important steps have been taken to combat air pollution and rising carbon dioxide emissions.
Projects initiated to increase the use of railways in transportation and transportation, and to expand the use of airlines,
practices initiated to increase the use of sea transportation in urban transportation, especially in Istanbul,
work on hybrid cars,
Incentives for the withdrawal of old vehicles from traffic are some of the first actions that should be mentioned.
The project to withdraw vehicles that have reached the end of their economic and technical life paved the way for the withdrawal of pre-1985 model tow trucks, trucks, buses and tankers from the market.
To date, a total of 30,000 of the most environmentally damaging vehicles have been withdrawn from traffic and the practice is still ongoing.
Exhaust gas emissions of motor vehicles traveling in traffic are monitored by ensuring that they are measured at the periods specified in the Regulation on Control of Exhaust Gas Emissions.
The period of vehicle inspection on paper was ended, and
189 vehicle inspection stations and 1288 gas emission measurement stations, which were established in international standards all over the country, were put into service.
To date, more than 14 million vehicles have undergone physical inspection.
Significant improvements have also been achieved in the quality of fuel used in motor vehicles.
Within the framework of the 2004 By-Law on Gasoline and Diesel Fuel Quality, the sulfur content of diesel fuel has been reduced by 86% in the last five years and will reach 99% this year.
Our 2023 Goals for Green Transportation
Priority will be given to studies on greenhouse gas emissions in all modes of transportation, especially highways,
and the necessary monitoring system will be established.
The rate of increase in total greenhouse gas emissions from transportation will be reduced by at least 11%.
For this purpose, the shares of road, rail, air and sea routes in passenger and freight transportation will change as follows:
Integrated public transportation systems supported by intelligent transportation systems will be established in metropolitan areas.
Emissions of PM2.5 particles (vehicles, trucks) causing respiratory diseases will be reduced by 20%.
In addition, 10% of the fuels used in transportation will be derived from biofuels, electricity and hydrogen, and 1st and 2nd generation biofuels will be used.
In the vehicle taxation system, small-engine vehicles will be incentivized for initial purchases based on carbon dioxide emissions or fuel consumption.
Hybrid electric and all-electric vehicles will be incentivized through tax incentives.
The use of hybrid electric and all-electric vehicles for urban use will be encouraged in public transportation vehicles, especially in metropolitan municipalities, and in all public and private company vehicle fleets.
At least 150 km of bicycle lanes will be constructed in each of our metropolitan cities and cycling will be made widespread.
Greenhouse gas emissions will be reduced by extending electrified railway lines and electrifying 70% of the line length.
Lighting of main arteries with wind and solar energy will be increased, and
ecological lighting opportunities will be developed with LED and new technologies.
The amount of afforestation will be increased through intensive afforestation campaigns in all railway and highway belts.
Clean Energy Sources
Our Party believes that a balance must be struck between protecting the environment and meeting the country's energy needs.
To this end, we will return to clean and renewable energy sources and
make the necessary investments to ensure energy security and diversity.
In 2023, our production capacity based on wind energy will be increased 20-fold from 1,000 MW to 20,000 MW.
Renewable energy sources will be utilized more
and power plants based on solar energy will be established, as well as geothermal-based electric power.
The share of renewable energy sources in electricity generation will be at least 30%.
Livable Cities
One of the factors that determine the quality of governance in a country, the level of development of society and its contribution to civilization is the cities in that country.
AK Party evaluates our cities together with all their social, cultural, technical and economic dimensions.
It has been one of the priorities of our Party to transform our cities, which have been suffering from migration, slums, unplanned construction, lack of resources and legal problems for many years, into "livable cities".
As a requirement of this priority, with the Local Government Reform, our municipalities were empowered in terms of both revenue and authority, and enabled to provide better services.
We took measures to prevent squatting and urbanization in violation of city plans through legal regulations.
We implemented Urban Transformation Projects to beautify our cities and rehabilitate slum areas; we
produced cheap housing for our citizens living in these areas.
Mass housing implementations, which have been carried out with great success to date, will be continued in the future, and
long-term programs will ensure that our cities become livable, healthy and aesthetic places.
The AK Party government, on the one hand, has implemented the necessary policies one by one to prevent the construction that disrupts the natural and historical texture of the city, and on the
other hand, has made great efforts in the restoration of historical buildings.
Many heirlooms have been restored and the
shame of disloyalty has been removed.
The most important problem of big cities today is urban transportation and traffic.
Realizing that local governments could not overcome this problem with their limited resources, the AK Party government made the necessary legal arrangements and made it possible for the central government to undertake the construction of rail systems from now on.
While doing all this, our Party, which highly values the participation of the people of the city, has widely cooperated with non-governmental organizations in solving problems.
Infrastructure Services
Due to excessive migration to big cities in the last half century, the infrastructure capacities of our cities have become inadequate and
the resources of local governments have become unable to meet the infrastructure needs.
Recognizing this reality, the AK Party government has made reforms to solve the problem, primarily by strengthening the powers of local governments and metropolitan cities,
increasing their share of the central budget, increasing their revenues and reducing their personnel costs.
In addition, the debts of local governments have also been restructured.
In the last 3 years, a total of TL 4.5 billion in loans were extended to municipalities and special administrations.
Grants were provided for 300 projects of municipalities, mainly for drinking water and sewerage.
2800 projects of special provincial administrations and municipalities in mapping, zoning, drinking water, sewerage and superstructure sectors were tendered.
We are launching the Water and Sewerage Infrastructure Project (SUKAP) to solve the wastewater (sewage) problem, which allows our citizens to access healthy drinking water and is important for the environment.
In this context, financial support will be provided especially to small settlements in need.
Other municipalities will be provided with cheap and long-term loans.
The amount of credit allocated to local governments, which was TL 2.1 billion in 2010, is targeted to reach TL 15 billion annually by 2023.
The number of provinces using natural gas was increased from 9 to 70, and work was initiated for the undergrounding of imaginary lines in the city.
Implementation is still ongoing.
Our 2023 Goals in Infrastructure
Our Party aims to improve the quality of urban infrastructure services in line with the principles of sustainable development. The
population of municipalities served by drinking and potable water networks will be increased to 100 percent,
no town will be left without water
, and drinking water treatment plants will be built in settlements in need.
Sewerage and treatment systems of all our cities will be gradually built to high standards.
Waste water recycling systems will be developed according to the level of water use.
The municipal population served by sewerage network, which is currently around 87%, and the municipal population served by wastewater treatment plant, which is currently around 56%, will be covered.
Wastewater will be treated for the entire population.
Treatment systems in industrial sites and facilities will be completed without compromise
and built according to environmental protection principles.
With the new Law on Iller Bank Incorporated Company that has entered into force, it will be easier to extend loans from international financial institutions to local governments with favorable conditions
and will continue on a large scale.
City parks, recreation areas, active green areas, children's playgrounds, recreation and promenade areas will be increased
and large-scale city squares will be created.
In parallel with the rapidly developing technology, the information and communication infrastructures of our cities will be completed to provide uninterrupted services.
By ensuring unity in infrastructure constructions carried out by different institutions in our cities, waste of time and resources and visual pollution will be prevented.
Urban Transportation
AK Party facilitates the lives of our citizens in urban transportation and its superstructure, traffic,
with an emphasis on public transportation,
It considers the establishment of environmentally friendly and safe transportation systems as an important goal.
During the period of our party, great steps have been taken to relieve urban transportation in our cities.
Within the framework of our goal, we have initiated giant projects on a global scale such as Marmaray, which facilitates Bosphorus crossing in Istanbul, the Eurasia Tunnel, and the 3rd Bridge.
By completing the IZBAN Project, we brought our beautiful Izmir to a modern rail system.
With this project, we have removed level crossings, built underpasses and overpasses, tunnels and modern stations, and transformed the suburban system into a fast and modern structure worthy of Izmir.
In order to separate urban pedestrian and vehicular traffic from intercity traffic, we constructed 3786 km. of urban crossings in 58 provincial centers, 474 districts and 209 towns.
336 bridge interchanges that ensure uninterrupted flow of intercity transit traffic on urban roads,
1542 controlled and signalized intersections
and built 950 pedestrian underpasses and overpasses.
During the Ak Parti rule, transportation has been facilitated with ring roads, city streets, crossings, intersections, underpasses and overpasses in all our cities.
A documentation, registration and inspection system that sets working standards for vehicles and operators such as private public buses, minibuses, taxis and minibuses was put in place, and
implementation standards were introduced for the operation of school buses, thus ensuring quality and order.
We are improving the connection roads to the Organized Industrial Zone, airport and similar centers, which have increased with the growth in our economy.
We continue to increase connections to these neighborhoods by roads and railways.
AK Party is working to make our cities places where all our citizens can live with pleasure and peace and equipped with modern transportation facilities.
Our 2023 Targets in Urban Transportation
Urban transportation, a vital element of livable cities, is one of the most important topics of our vision.
One of our most important goals is to provide everyone, everywhere, just in time; fast, choice, safe, comfortable, sustainable, sustainable, accessible, globally integrated transportation solutions.
We will improve cooperation between central and local governments on transportation and its superstructure, traffic; we will
plan transportation on a national scale and ensure harmony and coordination between national and local transportation plans.
Transportation Master Plans will be completed in all cities with a population over 100,000.
Public transportation infrastructure in cities will be established in an uninterrupted and high quality manner,
rail systems will be rapidly completed on busy lines
, and urban-intercity integration will be ensured.
Public transportation facilities to Organized Industrial Zones will be increased.
Urban Access Information Systems will be established and all transportation information will be made available to citizens electronically.
Integration of intercity main stations and urban access system will be completed.
In the urban transportation system, projects that take into account the needs of children, elderly and disabled people with mobility limitations, and projects for the integrity of pedestrian and vehicle transportation will be implemented.
In order to enrich the trained human resources in the field of transportation, cooperation will be established with universities and other institutions on transportation planning and engineering.
Public transportation infrastructure in metropolitan cities, particularly Istanbul, Ankara and Izmir, will be brought up to high standards.
Housing
Today, urbanization has become an indicator of wealth and development.
On average, 85% of people in the European Community live in cities.
In Turkey, this rate increased by 9 points to 73% during the period of our government.
The total housing need is expected to reach 3.4 million units in the next 5 years, driven by household growth, renovation and urban transformation.
In the next 12 years, this number is estimated to be around 8 million.
Aware of this urgent need, the AK Party government launched a "Planned Urbanization and Housing Production Mobilization" and
reached 490 thousand housing units in 1900 construction sites in 81 provinces and 800 districts by the end of April 2011.
Approximately 407 thousand of these housing units produced by TOKİ are social housing units.
4.5 million housing units were produced in Turkey during the period of our government.
For the first time in the history of our Republic, 45-87 m2 houses, which were produced for the poor group with no income in the 2003-2011 period, were given to the rightful owners with installments of 100-350 TL and maturities of 15-25 years without any down payment.
Acting with the goal of building livable cities, the AK Party government, in addition to housing production, has also built social facilities such as schools, gymnasiums, dormitories, hostels, health centers, hospitals, mosques, libraries, barrier-free living centers, etc., which are an important need of urban life, and put them into the service of our cities and people.
During the global economic crisis, while housing finance systems in many countries became unworkable, the housing delivery model in Turkey continued successfully
and contributed to more than 200 sectors.
Turkey's success is a model for the world.
Our 2023 Goals in Housing
The number of houses built by TOKİ will reach 1 million.
In order to make low-income people homeowners, 400,000 of the houses to be built will be social housing of 45-87 m2 in size
and will be offered to the public with no down payment, installments of 100-350 TL starting after the delivery of the house and maturities of up to 25 years.
Poor newly married couples will receive a 20-year, zero-interest loan of up to 60,000 TL.
A planning approach that will bring a holistic perspective to our cities will be developed.
In this context, new developments will be realized by integrating regional and spatial planning, zoning planning, urban design and rural design processes.
Since 85% of the physical structures in cities are residential buildings, special emphasis will be placed on aesthetics and creating a city identity.
Concept projects and prestige buildings will give cities a new vision and silhouette.
Livable environment, ecological construction and sustainability principles will be taken into consideration in housing production; the
construction of green and smart buildings will be emphasized;
energy efficient systems will be ensured in at least half of our housing stock and in all commercial and service buildings.
Social housing production will be emphasized in priority development regions.
The quality of life in rural settlements will be improved through the implementation of Agricultural Village Houses.
Attention will be paid to the balance of education, transportation, health, industry and trade in housing production.
Transportation-communication-technical and housing infrastructures will be handled in an integrated manner between cities that are in intensive economic and social relations.
Large squares and large parks will be created by emphasizing urban design as well as architectural design in housing production.
The design principles of Ottoman-Seljuk-Republican architecture, traditional and local architecture will be integrated into modern building design in our housing production.
In addition, the private sector will be encouraged, land and land development will be emphasized
and land will be provided to the private sector,
obtaining building permits will be facilitated,
technical consultancy systems will be developed and building inspections will be increased.
Incentives will be increased in the production of construction materials, and
emphasis will be placed on quality and standardization in construction materials.
Projects for resource development (income enhancement) will be established;
necessary work will be completed to put into practice models that will work together with capital markets in housing finance.
The restoration practices initiated to protect the historical textures of our cities will continue, especially in Istanbul,
preservation of historic cities as a whole will be ensured
and examples such as Safranbolu and Amasya will be multiplied and brought to cultural tourism.
Urban Transformation
Turkey has around 19 million housing stock.
However, nearly half of the houses in our cities and villages have reached the end of their economic life.
Moreover, most of the buildings located on the seismic contrary are not earthquake resistant.
For this reason, the AK Party government introduced the concept of "urban transformation" to the national agenda.
For the first time in the history of the Republic, 248 slum transformation/urban renewal projects with a total of 188,000 housing units in 60 provinces were launched jointly by TOKİ and local governments.
Thus, the demand of our people living in unplanned settlements and slums to reside in living spaces with spacious spaces, green areas, children's playgrounds, sports fields and social facilities has been met.
With this practice, the tendency towards slums was also broken.
Our 2023 Targets in Urban Transformation
Turkey is experiencing a great change and transformation and is developing.
In parallel with this development, our cities and physical infrastructure will be made exemplary on a global scale in line with the leadership position our country has achieved in the political arena.
As a requirement of integration with the modern world, we will improve our understanding of planning and zoning
and contribute to this process by achieving urban transformation.
Urban transformations will create modern and contemporary cities,
reduce poverty and protect natural resources,
will contribute to the further development of the economy and employment.
As a result of urban transformation, our people residing in slum areas will have safe, peaceful, healthy and property-owned living spaces.
In order to be prepared against earthquakes, transformation efforts will continue in risky cities, especially in Istanbul.
We will expand urban transformation practices based on seismic maps, starting from the Marmara basin to the Aegean and Eastern Anatolia regions.
Moreover, comprehensive urban transformation efforts will continue in all provinces with unplanned urbanization in cooperation with local administrations.
Through transformation and renovation projects, historical or traditional urban centers will be revitalized while preserving their authenticity.
Integration between the central government, local administrations, universities, civil society organizations and citizens will be ensured during urban transformations;
viable solutions will be produced with a social state approach, considering the entire population of the country.
Urban transformations will be carried out with an understanding that will improve the quality of life of our citizens without causing them economic losses.
In order to realize urban transformation projects more quickly, we have so far made serious arrangements in laws such as Municipality, Mass Housing, Zoning, Condominium, Expropriation, Urban Transformation, Site Management, Disasters, Land Registry and Cadastre laws and in practices such as real estate taxes and compulsory insurance.
We will make additional arrangements in areas of need.
Urban transformation is not only about renovating buildings, it is also the key to positive social transformation.
In this respect, social service programs will be developed to ensure adaptation to urban life in transformation areas.
Property and zoning planning
Orderly construction is an important way of preventing waste of resources.
zoning planning and is based on innovative and scientific foundations.
In this context, "Urban Development Strategy" (KENTGES) was prepared to improve the quality of spatial life, strengthen the economic and social structure and restructure the spatial planning system in Turkey.
Of the 52,458 units (villages/neighborhoods) constituting the entire cadastre of our country, 52,112 cadastres have been completed, and all of them have been completed except for 346 problematic villages/neighborhoods where no commission can be formed due to security reasons.
Approximately 8.010.000 cadastral parcels were transferred to digital environment and renewal works were started.
As of today, 20% has been completed and the remaining part will be completed by the end of 2013.
Thus, all cadastral parcels will be transferred to the electronic environment in the national coordinate system.
There are 26.000.000 parcels and approximately 75.000.000 owners registered all over the country and all related information will be transferred to the electronic environment by the end of 2011.
By the end of 2011, the Land Registry Cadastre Information System (TAKBIS) will be completed and citizens will be able to carry out sales and purchase transactions related to their own properties from anywhere in the country.
Our 2023 Goals in Property and Zoning Planning
There is a need for a series of studies to be carried out in order to make our cities "livable places".
The Zoning Law will be revised in line with the vision of "livable environment and cities".
There will be no city without a master plan.
The process of registering real estate information will be accelerated and
there will be no area without cadastre and registration throughout the country.
We will increase the rate of transfer to the information system, which was 70% in 2010, to 100% in a short time.
Turkey's spatial information infrastructure will be completed and data infrastructure in this field will be established.
By utilizing information and communication technologies, quality and effective service understanding will be established in all administrations in property-related works and transactions such as licenses, projects and title deeds.
Spatial information infrastructure will be established at international standards,
Geographical Information System will be established
and Spatial Planning Portal will be put into service.
Active use of public lands in cities will be ensured on the basis of zoning, economic development and common social-cultural benefits.
Environmental protection and ecological balances will be taken into consideration in planning, zoning and implementation.
zoning plans and urban planning will be revised taking into account the risks related to natural disasters.
Legislation will be updated to ensure the coherence and integrity of city transportation plans with urban plans.
In urban development strategies, the spatial environment will be handled in an integrated manner, and private and public buildings, infrastructure, green and open spaces and social facilities will be planned and implemented together.
Integration of residential and industrial areas, social facilities and recreational areas and the textures formed by them with the city will be ensured.
Coordination will be ensured on planning, design, continuous updating of building standards and certifications applied to building standards.
Effective R&D centers will be established in each city for the development of cities.
R&D centers will conduct studies on how transportation, communication, housing infrastructure and existing cities will develop.
A zoning planning approach that does not allow for urban design will be abandoned.
Easy access to the city center will be provided,
squares will be created
and cities will focus on smart high-tech intensive buildings.
Urban services will be accessible to disadvantaged segments of society such as the disabled, the elderly, and special needs groups with limited mobility.
Urban centers will be designed on a pedestrian-oriented and human scale, and will
be supported to be centers of attraction not only for shopping but also for other activities such as culture, arts, entertainment and recreation.
Beautification of the physical urban environment, improvement of the existing housing stock, socio-cultural and social development in settlements and encouragement of public participation will be ensured.
There are approximately 450,000 buildings and 1.5 million people living in areas known as "land that has lost its forest quality".
In these areas, also known as 2-B, there are also villages, towns, districts, factories, buildings and facilities belonging to public institutions and organizations.
These settlements have been provided with infrastructure services by the state in the past.
There is a need to reorganize these areas, which have lost their forest qualities, have been put into actual use due to the negligence of the past years, cannot regain their forest qualities again and have been used for years, for the public benefit.
In order to solve the problems of the citizens using these lands called 2B, the necessary legal arrangements have reached the stage of completion and will be enacted in the new period and implementation will begin.
Thus, all obstacles to our citizens' becoming the real owners of these places that they have been occupying, using and living in for years will be completely removed.
Barrier-Free Cities
The AK Party government has carried out reforms to ensure that our cities become "settlements where disabled citizens feel comfortable to live".
Additional amendments were made to the Constitution in favor of our disabled citizens and this amendment was accepted by our people in the last referendum.
In order to achieve the goal of ensuring the full participation of disabled citizens in social life, it is of great importance to make the buildings used by public institutions and organizations, public areas and public transportation vehicles suitable for the use of disabled people.
In 2002, only 382 disabled people benefited from special education and rehabilitation courses and today 23,510 people benefit from these courses.
Our 2023 Goals for Energy-Free Cities
Wider efforts will be undertaken to ensure the effective participation of persons with disabilities in all spheres of life and to ensure their access to the physical environment, transportation, health, education and all public services in both rural and urban areas on equal terms with other individuals.
The "Barrier-Free City Project", which started as a pilot project in four provinces, will be expanded to cover other cities.
Within the scope of the project, the barriers for disabled people to benefit from urban services will be removed.
Our disabled people will be saved from living a life of imprisonment in their homes due to urban barriers.
Municipalities will ensure that these regulations comply with the relevant standards of the EU and TSE, and will
ensure that the public transportation vehicles they purchase, rent or control are suitable for the use of disabled people.
Local governments will be ensured to have specially equipped vehicles for the transportation of people with special disabilities.
Arrangements will be made in the transportation infrastructure, from traffic signalization to pedestrian crossings, from underpasses and overpasses to sidewalks, suitable for the use of disabled people.
Efforts to create parking spaces suitable for motor vehicles used by disabled people will be expanded.
Vocational training courses initiated for the disabled to take part more effectively in the urban economy will be expanded.
The number of disabled people benefiting from vocational training courses will be increased exponentially.
In addition, positive discrimination for disabled entrepreneurs will be expanded.
Parks, playgrounds, sports fields and similar recreation areas will be arranged in accordance with the access and use of disabled people.
All public service buildings, cultural and social facilities and all buildings licensed by the municipality will be designed to be suitable for the use of disabled people.
All disabled students in need of special education will have free transportation to their schools.
All public personnel and other relevant persons will be trained on accessibility problems faced by persons with disabilities
and awareness will be raised in the society in this field.
Braille and easy-to-understand signage will be provided in public buildings and other facilities.
Disaster Management
During the AK Party rule, the confusion and disorganization of authority in disaster and emergency management was put an end to,
all these duties were gathered under a single roof
and the Prime Ministry Disaster and Emergency Management Presidency was established for this purpose.
Thus, the necessary structuring has been completed for immediate intervention in the event of any natural disaster and catastrophe, coordination of post-disaster works and informing the public correctly.
With the implementation of these efforts, Turkey has become one of the leading and exemplary successful countries in the world with its ability to respond to incidents both nationally and internationally in the last 8.5 years.
Establishment of disaster coordination centers has been accelerated, starting with cities under earthquake risk such as Istanbul.
Within the scope of disaster management, transportation infrastructure and superstructure (viaducts, bridges, etc.) and public buildings (education, health, justice, security, etc.) were strengthened.
During the AK Party rule, the understanding of disaster housing has changed.
Instead of prefabricated temporary disaster dwellings, permanent disaster dwellings with social facilities were built by TOKİ within 6 months to 1 year, and new prestige areas with robust and comfortable structures were created.
In this context, 18,000 disaster houses were built and delivered to their rightful owners during our party's term.
For example, after the disasters in Tunceli Pülümür, Bingöl, Bursa Mustafakemalpaşa and Mersin Gülnar, Rize, Şanlıurfa and Batman, Elazığ Palu, permanent disaster houses were rapidly completed and delivered to their rightful owners.
Not only the needs arising from the disasters that occurred during this period, but also the disaster houses that could not be built for 30-40 years were built and delivered to the rightful owners.
It has extended a helping hand not only in Turkey but also in disasters occurring abroad.
Following the earthquake and flood disasters in Pakistan, Indonesia and Sri Lanka, approximately 6 thousand houses and social facilities were built and delivered.
Our 2023 Goals in Disaster Management
Reinforcement of existing public buildings will be completed.
Earthquake isolators will be used in the construction of new structures such as public buildings, bridges and viaducts.
Technical infrastructure as well as buildings will be reinforced for earthquake risk (drinking water, wastewater, natural gas, electric telephone).
Disaster management will be planned to minimize damages before disasters occur.
Natural Disasters will cease to be a nightmare.
Priority will be given to the needs of settlements for disaster risk reduction, and
regulations that will enable a disaster-sensitive construction will be effectively implemented.
Risks of natural disasters will be made specific according to regions
and Risk Maps will be prepared according to the types of disasters such as floods in Eastern Black Sea, Southeast, Northern Anatolia, Marmara and Aegean regions, earthquakes in Marmara and Aegean regions, and fires in forest areas.
According to the risk analyses, TOKİ will construct housing and workplaces in suitable conditions for those who need to resettle in settlements with high disaster risk.
Earthquake preparedness efforts in Istanbul will be accelerated and inspections will be increased.
Within the framework of disaster management, smart buildings, smart streets and smart settlements will be created;
more regular transportation-coordination will be ensured,
safety systems of infrastructures such as natural gas, electricity and water will be improved.
Natural disaster insurance system will be developed to cover all types of disasters.
Prepared for earthquakes and other natural disasters,
that all life will continue in our cities after a disaster,
Our goal is to create modern, safe cities with all kinds of social facilities, where damages will be reduced and renewed as soon as possible.
For effective response to disasters, emergency communication infrastructure will be strengthened and
structures such as evacuation corridors, assembly, temporary shelter, disaster support centers and emergency facilities will be constructed.
Emergency and disaster management infrastructure will be established at the neighborhood scale, and the
equipment of these centers will be completed and kept ready for continuous use.
Awareness against disasters will be raised by providing trainings to our citizens before and after disasters.
Runway areas will be increased for helicopters serving as air ambulances in earthquake-prone and densely populated areas.
R&D activities will be carried out to produce disaster-resistant materials used in urban infrastructure sector.
Local Governments
Local governments are public legal entities created to meet the common local needs of citizens.
Today, the understanding of development is not limited to the work done at the national level.
In addition to national development, local development is among the most important elements that complement this process.
For the development of our country and increasing the welfare of our people, our cities must be ready for global competition and cooperation, and they must
be transformed into "brand cities" in different fields.
For this reason, the AK Party, in order to provide local services in an effective, efficient, high quality and fast manner; strengthening local governments in terms of their duties, powers and areas of responsibility,
increasing financial resources
and expanding its participatory features as a priority and important issue, and has made many of the necessary arrangements.
In this context, a large number of legislative amendments were made to increase efficiency and productivity in local governments, including the Law No. 5393 on Municipalities, Law No. 5216 on Metropolitan Municipalities, Law No. 5302 on Special Provincial Administrations, Law No. 5355 on Unions of Local Administrations and Law No. 5779 on Allocation of Shares from General Budget Revenues to Special Provincial Administrations and Municipalities.
These regulations also aim to make local governments more democratic, participatory, transparent and accountable institutions.
In 2002, the resources allocated to local governments from the central budget was 4.6 billion TL, while in 2010 it reached 20.4 billion TL, a 4.5-fold increase.
Our 2023 Goals in Local Government
On the one hand, strengthening local government institutions in order to improve the quality and quantity of local services,
On the other hand, a series of arrangements will be made to improve urban and rural service standards.
The main activities to be carried out in this context are as follows: Local administrations will reach EU standards.
Existing structures of local administrations will be addressed in line with European Union standards in a way to ensure participation, transparency, accountability and effective functioning, and
necessary additional arrangements will be made.
Legislative arrangements will be made to ensure the guarantee of urban rights within the scope of the European Urban Charter.
Local administrations will be restructured administratively.
Local governments in Turkey have very different scales in terms of both population and settlement area characteristics, and therefore, local governments need to be restructured.
In this context, regulations regarding the duties, authorities and responsibilities of municipalities and special provincial administrations, taking into account their scale, will be continued within the scope of local government reform.
The Village Law will be redrafted, the duties and authorities of village administrations will be increased,
their financial resources will be strengthened
and the personal rights of village mukhtars will be improved.
Problems in the duties and authorities of metropolitan municipalities and metropolitan district municipalities will be eliminated.
The structure of Special Provincial Administrations will be reviewed
and conflicts of authority and duties with municipalities will be eliminated.
Legal regulations on neighborhood mukhtars will be renewed.
The duties and powers of local administrations will be increased.
Devolution of authority from central to local level will continue.
The process of localization of services by local administrations will be accelerated.
Financial resources of local administrations will be improved.
Shares transferred to local governments from General Budget revenues will be increased.
Budgets for central services transferred to local governments will be transferred to local governments along with the service.
Legal arrangements will be made to ensure that local governments collect local resources effectively and efficiently.
City Policies for Global Competitiveness
In the 21st century, the acceleration of globalization and economic integration makes the role of large cities increasingly important in terms of growth, welfare and social development.
Today, cities as well as countries are increasingly influential in the circulation and accumulation of capital, goods, information and human resources.
Therefore, not only countries but also cities compete with each other.
Countries that manage to use their cities well in global competition have an advantageous position.
Our 2023 vision, which aims to consolidate Turkey's place among the world's most respected and powerful countries, considers transforming our cities into "brand cities" among its primary objectives. In addition to
raising the quality of life in all its dimensions, being a "brand city" means increasing revenues by focusing on high value-added sectors,
restoring its historical and cultural riches and making them available to all humanity,
making good use of its tourism opportunities
, and achieving an advantageous position by differentiating itself from other cities with which it competes.
To this end, in cooperation with local governments and with a strategic vision, we will plan the future of cities
and implement the necessary practices with determination.
Our party has achieved all the high standards of civilization with its productive economy, livable environment, rich social and cultural life, especially in our three major cities,
It aims to create cities where residents are happy and proud to live.
Our three major provinces, which we aim to play a major role in the realization of our 2023 vision, should be able to offer their potential to the service of the country more by eliminating their existing problems.
and we plan to implement strategies specific to Istanbul, Ankara and Izmir to help us get ahead in the global competition between cities and countries.
Istanbul
Istanbul is an embodied showcase of the civilization we have built over centuries.
Istanbul, which has been our cultural capital throughout history, and the largest center of Turkey's know-how, production power, cultural and artistic potential, is also the most important base of our economic activities, namely trade and industry.
With these qualities, Istanbul is one of the star cities not only for Turkey but also for all humanity.
Istanbul, which embodies almost all the "bests" of our nation, requires special attention, care and attention.
In 2023, Istanbul's population will exceed 15 million.
We will build the 3rd international airport in Istanbul.
The Third Bosphorus Bridge will be completed, and
two tube crossings, one for rail and one for wheeled vehicles, connecting the continents under the sea, will create a world underground.
We have made significant progress so far on one of Istanbul's biggest problems: traffic.
Interchanges, tunnel roads, greater use of the sea, Metrobus are just some of them.
The current state of the Istanbul metro is, of course, not enough.
We will continue our efforts to bring it to an adequate level.
We will add a new network to the existing 235 km rail network.
In this context, the following projects will be realized: Kadıköy-Kartal-Kaynarca Metro Project İncirli-Yenikapı-Hacıosman Metro Project Üsküdar-Altunizade-Ümraniye Metro Project Kabataş-Mahmutbey Metro Project Bakırköy-Bahçelievler-Kirazlı Metro Project Otogar-İkitelli Light Rail System Project Bakırköy-Beylikdüzü Light Rail System Project.
Istanbul, connected to Anatolia and Europe by high-speed rail, will also be one of the centers of rail transportation extending to China in the east and London in the west.
Integration of 80% of total trips with public transportation systems will be completed.
Infrastructure and transformation works will be completed to enable 50% of all public transportation vehicles to be operated with renewable energy sources.
Recycling of 80% of domestic waste will be ensured.
The amount of green space per capita will reach 7 m2.
Istanbul will be transformed into a city ready for earthquakes in every aspect.
Along with urban transformation efforts, Istanbul Seismic Risk Mitigation and Emergency Preparedness Project will be completed and
all buildings and structures with high risk will be renovated or their durability will be increased.
Up to 60% of buildings are planned to be reinforced or reconstructed.
In 2009, the Istanbul International Finance Center Strategy Action Plan was put into effect, and with the work to be carried out within the framework of the plan, Istanbul will become one of the most important financial centers not only in the region but also in the world.
Istanbul, which is also a city of universities, will be one of the world's most important science centers.
The restoration and renovation of all historical monuments in the historical peninsula, which is on UNESCO's World Heritage list, will be completed, and
all our historical and cultural assets in the neighborhoods outside the city walls, especially Eyüp, Beyoğlu, Üsküdar and Boğaziçi, will be turned into a bridge from tradition to the future.
Our bed capacity in tourism will reach 250,000 by creating 140,000 additional capacity to the 110,000 bed potential in the city.
In this way, Istanbul will become one of the most important tourism centers that can host 20 million tourists annually.
Two new convention centers, a new international exhibition center, an international themed amusement park (Disneyland), new museums and new marinas will be built in Istanbul.
Galataport and Haydarpaşa Port projects, which will be new cruise ports supported by shopping areas and other social facilities, will be realized.
Thus, with its natural beauties, historical masterpieces, great economic potential, enormous touristic infrastructure, minimized traffic congestion, congress centers, sports and arts infrastructure, dozens of established and developed universities, international air and sea ports, Istanbul will truly become a brand city and a showcase that we present to the world with pride.
A cinema complex with improved and differently shaped plateaus for the art of cinema will be brought to the cinema industry.
In addition to all that we will do, Istanbul will become a "global city" with the special and very striking projects we will announce for Istanbul in time.
Then, the poet's line about Istanbul, "let alone the one who laughs, the one who cries is blessed" will become a reality.
Ankara
Ankara was a small Anatolian town when it had the honor of becoming the headquarters of our National Independence struggle and then the capital of the Republic.
As the capital, Ankara is naturally the center of public institutions.
In addition to a strong public sector, our capital city is Turkey's second largest metropolis with industrial enterprises operating in five Organized Industrial Zones, defense industry establishments of strategic importance for our country,  trade centers, 12 universities,  very large and important health centers.
Ankara, which is a very important intersection and meeting point of air, land and railway transportation, is also an agricultural city where agriculture is practiced on approximately half of its surface area.
Ankara, which is one of the most active and effective diplomatic centers not only in our region but also in Europe, has witnessed very advanced developments to complete its economic, physical and social development under the AK Party rule.
In addition to all that has been done, we will realize the following projects in Ankara: Ankara, the crossroads of transportation in Anatolia, will be the biggest transportation junction of the region with its Istanbul and Izmir highways, high-speed train lines connecting to other provinces and a developing airport.
The following important transportation networks that will rapidly connect all cities of the country to Ankara will be completed: Ankara-Eskişehir-İstanbul high speed train line Ankara-Afyonkarahisar-Uşak-İzmir high speed train line Ankara-Konya high speed train line Ankara-Yozgat-Sivas-Erzincan-Kars high speed train line.
In line with the public transportation needs in Ankara, it is targeted to complete 44 km of metro within 2 years and to build additional metro and tunnel roads by 2023.
In this context, first: Kızılay-Çayyolu Metro Project Tandoğan-Keçiören Metro Project Batıkent-Eryaman-Sincan Metro Project will be completed.
A rail system will be established between Ankara Esenboğa Airport and the city center.
New alternative transportation routes to the main arteries of Eskişehir Road and Konya Road within the city will be realized and traffic load will be reduced.
The urban regeneration of Ankara, particularly the Ankara City Entrance Protocol Road urban regeneration project, will be completed.
Within the scope of the "Ulus Historic City Center" urban transformation program, a historic district with Ankara houses on 210 hectares will be created.
A Civilizations Park where all civilizations that have ever lived in Ankara will be built.
An electronic library on the scale of the national library will be established in Ankara.
Rehabilitation of Çubuk Stream and renovation of Ankara Stream will be completed, and the
city will be given an aesthetic appearance with the old stream road and green areas flowing through Ankara.
World investments will be attracted to Ankara,
5000 organizations with foreign capital and direct investments worth 5 billion dollars will be realized in Ankara.
For this purpose, a free trade zone will be established in Ankara.
Ankara Free Trade Zone will be established and exports will reach 3 billion dollars a year.
Ankara's potential to become a defense industry base will be increased, and
emphasis will be placed on value-added technology production.
Ankara companies are targeted to be among the top 100 defense companies in the world.
We aim to export $10 billion worth of defense and aerospace products from Ankara.
Siteler region, which has an important place in the furniture sector, will be supported in specialization, technological renewal, design and international marketing
and will contribute to its development.
Ankara will have a fairground within 2 years.
Congress and Fair Center Ankara investments: 50 international and 50 national congresses and fairs will be hosted annually,
2 stand-alone congress centers with a capacity of 5000 and 10.000 people will be established, an
exhibition center with 250.000 m2 indoor and outdoor area will be established in international standards,
economic development and employment will be increased with the growth of Ankara in congress tourism thanks to these investments.
A total of 10 million tourists will come to Ankara, 5 million of them for health tourism.
Ankara will become one of Turkey's most important health centers.
The new state hospital to be built in Ankara Etlik will be the largest health institution in Turkey.
Ankara provincial borders are extremely rich in thermal waters.
The establishment of new thermal facilities in Haymana, Ayaş, Kazan, Çubuk and Kızılcahamam will be supported.
At the same time, Ankara will be the base of technology in Turkey thanks to the Technopolis led by universities.
One of the Informatics Valley projects initiated in Turkey will be established in Ankara
and Ankara will be one of the major centers of the region in the field of information technologies.
Ankara will be the biotechnology capital of the country, and the
development and commercialization of seed and animal breeding technologies will be supported.
19 Mayıs Stadium will be replaced by a new world-class sports complex.
Izmir
Our National Struggle, which was crowned with the establishment of our Republic, was decided in Istanbul, managed in Ankara and triumphed in Izmir.
Unfortunately, our beautiful İzmir, which has a very important place in our struggle for independence as well as in our struggle for future, has not received the attention and support that corresponds to its potential until the AK Party government.
Throughout history, Izmir has been Anatolia's window to the West.
With its historical richness, natural beauty and enormous tourism potential, Izmir can be a much richer, prosperous and vibrant brand city than it is today.
Trained human resources, 79 years of experience in fair organization, ports, foreign trade potential, climate and geography, 19 Organized Industrial Zones, 2 Free Zones, 8 universities and fertile lands are very important assets and advantages of Izmir.
Our Party has mobilized Izmir's potential energy and rolled up its sleeves to become one of the world's leading brand cities in 2023.
But nothing can be done for Izmir.
We will not settle for less.
Along with what has been done, very important projects will be realized in the coming period.
In this context, İzmir will utilize all the advantages of being a port city by building new ports and increasing the capacity and growth of existing ports.
In this context: North Aegean (Çandarlı) port will be built,
Alsancak Port will be improved,
Aliağa and Nemrut piers will be rehabilitated, and
a world-class cruise port will be built.
With the railway connections to be completed, it is aimed to make Izmir ports the foreign trade connection center of Anatolia.
Izmir, the heart of the Aegean region, has initiated efforts to improve its connections to all regions with the highest quality highways in the field of transportation.
This is among the 2023 targets: Izmir-Istanbul Motorway
Izmir-Ankara Motorway
Extension of Izmir Ring Road to Çandarlı Port
Menderes - Gümüldür and Seferihisar-Kuşadası Divided Road
Bornova Ring Road Arrangement
Sabuncubeli Tunnel
Çeşme and Karaburun Coastal Road
Izmir-Çeşme Separation-Karaburun Road
Torbalı-Bayındır-Ödemiş-Kiraz State Road
Çanakkale Road Eski Foça Separation-Eski Foça-Yeni Foça-Çanakkale Road
Connection of viaducts to the port
Kemalpaşa-Torbalı Divided Road
Güzelbahçe-Urla, Urla-Çeşme, Selçuk-Ortaklar Roads works will be completed.
Izmir will thus have the most modern intercity road transportation facilities.
For Izmir, which is targeted to become a logistics center, a gathering and distribution point for railways in the region: Izmir-Uşak-Afyonkarahisar-Polatlı-Ankara High Speed Train Project
Çandarlı Port Railway Connection
Kemalpaşa-Turgutlu Railway Connection
Extension of the double line railway to Torbalı
Construction of the 2nd line between Menemen-Manisa will be completed
and services will be provided to our citizens.
Expanding and improving urban transportation systems is a vital issue for Izmir.
In this area: Egeray Project, which is already in operation between Menderes-Aliağa, will be extended to Bergama in the north and Selçuk in the south.
Emphasis will be placed on maritime transportation;
passage across the Gulf between Üçkuyular and Mavişehir will be provided by bridge or tube crossing.
Kemalpaşa Logistics Village will be established on an area of 2000 decares near Kemalpaşa Organized Industrial Zone.
Izmir's regeneration and urban planning will be improved through urban transformation projects.
Taking into account Izmir's geological and seismic conditions and traffic infrastructure, projects will be carried out to enable our citizens to lead a healthier, safer, higher quality and modern life.
In this context: With the İzmir Konak Urban Transformation Project, the houses in the disaster-prone area in Kadifekale will be included in urban transformation.
With urban transformation projects that will rid the city of slums, our people living in difficult conditions and in various deprivations in these areas will be provided with healthier, modern living spaces by protecting their assets without any material loss.
Izmir will be at the top of the list of brand cities in the AK Party's 2023 vision.
For this purpose, the highest quality investments will be made in the field of health investments in our city:
Bayraklı City Hospital will be a modern health facility to be built on 4500 decares with green and social reinforcement areas.
With Yenişehir City Hospital, the buildings and lands of Tepecik Training and Research Hospital, Ege Maternity Hospital, Dr. Suat Seren Chest Diseases Hospital, Atatürk Vocational High School for Health, Osman Yaşar Vocational High School for Health, Directorate of Cemeteries and the surrounding areas allocated as "hospital development area" will be combined and transformed into a 155,000 m2 giant city hospital.
A 410-bed training hospital will be built on the land of Çiğli Regional Training Hospital and Çiğli Regional Warehouse and Repair Shop.
With Torbalı State Hospital, a modern hospital with 150 beds will be brought to our city instead of the old 100-bed hospital built in 1978.
New male and female dormitories with a total capacity of 10,000 students will be built near the campus areas of Dokuz Eylül University, Ege University and Izmir Institute of Technology Rectorate.
One stadium each will be built in the north and south of Izmir, providing
state-of-the-art facilities for international sports and competitions.
With new investments in tourism, Izmir will strengthen its leading position in this field and become
not only a regional but also a global center of attraction.
In this regard: Implementation of the Aegean Civilizations Museum Project Construction
of a world-class cruise port Construction of
a Congress Center
Increasing the number of direct flights to abroad
With the New Fairground and Congress Center projects, Izmir will consolidate its position as the apple of tourism's eye and the pearl of the Aegean.
Necessary initiatives will be initiated and support will be provided for Expo 2020 to be held in Izmir.
Necessary steps will be taken to increase the current tourism bed capacity of 43,000 to 100,000 by 2023.
Regional and Rural Development
Regional Development
Reducing interregional development disparities by taking into account the increasing importance of economic geography and space in the current globalization process, as well as EU harmonization policies,
Ensuring total development by mobilizing local and regional potentials,
The fair distribution of welfare and the understanding of sustainable development have both gained importance.
In line with this understanding, firstly, to eradicate the perception of neglect across the country in recent years,
to promote a sense of fairness
and the strengthening of peace, trust and solidarity.
Reducing regional imbalances,
accelerating regional development
and strengthening regional competitiveness, a comprehensive, qualified, multifaceted, decisive regional development policy with dedicated financing resources was pursued.
Within this framework, regional development projects such as GAP, DAP and KOP were resurrected and rapidly implemented.
A total of 19.7 billion TL was allocated for GAP, DAP and KOP in the 2008-2011 period alone.
GAP Action Plan was prepared.
GAP, which received a share of 7 percent of public investments in 2002, has been allocated an average investment allocation of around 14 percent since the action plan.
In addition, the Centers of Attraction Program was put into practice for the first time in Turkey to guide urbanization and development at the regional level.
Highly qualified development agencies have been introduced to support regional development with decentralized specialized institutions and additional financial resources.
Around 700 highly qualified experts employed in the agencies have started to utilize the approximately 1.85 billion TL resources allocated in the 2008-2011 period to development and competitiveness projects.
Our 2023 Goals in Regional Development
Within the scope of National Strategies for Regional Development, the country's space will be analyzed in a holistic manner and growth and development corridors based on industry, services and agriculture will be identified.
In regions where local initiatives are weak and investment risks are perceived to be high, new investment and enterprise models will be implemented with the guidance and arbitration of the public sector.
Creating employment opportunities in rural areas to prevent migration
Policies to reduce regional disparities, such as diversification of economic activities, will be developed.
Urbanization will be guided at the national and regional level in an integrated manner;
economic and social relations, transportation, communication and housing infrastructures of cities will be handled within regional integrity and factors causing excessive migration will be eliminated.
In this context, investments in educational institutions, especially universities, health and other public services will continue to increase in all cities.
A Branding Strategy will be developed at the urban scale.
Urbanization of underdeveloped regions around designated attraction center cities
and its rapid development will be encouraged.
It will be ensured that the private sector and local initiatives are the main drivers of regional development.
In this context, the regional and sectoral incentive system will be strengthened,
new financial instruments such as the credit guarantee system and venture capital will be extended to the local level,
regional clusters with a focus on SMEs will be supported,
R&D and innovation culture will be spread to the grassroots and locally operating support models will be established for innovative enterprises and entrepreneurs.
The development of transportation-communication and urban infrastructure between small, medium and large-scale cities will be encouraged to be considered as a whole.
High environmental awareness that can integrate with the modern world,
providing income and jobs,
Technology cities where the service sector can easily develop will be planned.
Regional development projects such as GAP, DAP and KOP will be completed, and
new regional development strategies and programs will be implemented throughout the country through development agencies.
In this context, special importance will be given to organized industrial zones and their number will be increased.
Regional projects will be implemented as soon as possible;
for example, organized industrial zones will be given importance and their number will be increased.
At least 4 cities from Turkey will be included in the top 100 cities of the world in international livability rankings.
Urban planning will be integrated with regional development efforts, and
environmental (settlement) layout plans will be made by governorships and municipalities under the coordination of development agencies.
Rural Development
Our Party has implemented the KÖYDES Project to improve rural infrastructure and ensure development.
This project was launched as the biggest rural infrastructure move in the history of the Republic.
Within the scope of KÖYDES and BELDES projects, efforts were made to meet the basic needs of our villages and towns such as drinking water, roads and similar basic needs.
In this context, for the first time in history, KÖYDES Project was put into practice in 2005-2010 and BELDES Project was put into practice in 2007-2008
and water and road problems of all our villages and towns were solved to a great extent by allocating approximately 8 Billion TL resources within the scope of these projects.
Our 2023 Goals in Rural Development
Basic infrastructure such as roads, water, education, health, energy and communication will be completed in villages.
There will be no village without water, roads, asphalt, sewage, education, health, communication, deprivation and poverty.
In order to prevent migration, efforts to reduce regional disparities will be accelerated by creating employment opportunities in rural areas and diversifying economic activities.
It will be ensured that the construction in rural settlements is in accordance with the plan, science, health and environmental conditions.
Innovative economic activities that will increase the economic power and attractiveness of villages will be encouraged,
employment opportunities will be increased
and wealthy villages will be created.
In parallel with urban transformation projects, our towns and villages will be cleared of makeshift houses
and rural infrastructure will be improved.
Agricultural Village housing and similar practices will reduce the attractiveness of rural-urban migration and
at the same time increase the livability of rural settlements.
There will be no village without broadband internet access infrastructure.
The measures to be taken will create economically strong and prosperous villages.
Land consolidation and integration studies will be completed in order to ensure efficiency in public services and economic optimization.
KÖYDES program will be transformed into a comprehensive and holistic rural development program by increasing its resources.
Leading Country
JUNE 12 GENERAL ELECTIONS
Election
Declaration
Our Foreign Policy Approach Relations with the European Union Cyprus United States of America Balkans Middle East Russia and Caucasus Central Asia and Turkic Republics Africa East and Southeast Asia Latin America Foreign Aid Defense
Our Foreign Policy Approach
The AK Party's foreign policy vision is based on a realistic understanding of Turkey's historical background, geo-political position and the new dynamics of the globalizing world.
Turning globalization into an opportunity, our party has struck a balance between national and universal values and made a
paradigm shift to make Turkey one of the leading countries of the 21st century.
This new vision has left behind the confrontational outlook and fears of the Cold War era
and demonstrated that it is possible to address developments in our region and the world with a positive approach.
The AK Party governments' proactive and positive foreign policy vision has won the trust of our people and the
appreciation of our neighbors and allies.
Addressing regional and global problems with vision and self-confidence, AK Party made Turkey the address of peace and stability in a short time.
Turkey is no longer fighting with its neighbors and the world,
has become a country exporting peace and stability to the region.
We are implementing a normalization process in foreign policy as well as in domestic politics.
We are making peace with our own history and geography.
We now see our history and geography, which were previously considered a burden and a problem, as a strategic asset.
Our foreign policy, built on our rich history and geo-strategic position, strengthens Turkey, its neighbors and the region.
In the confrontational foreign policy approach of the Cold War era, some won and some lost.
For some countries to be strong, others had to be weak, poor and unstable.
We rejected this approach
and developed a new vision of foreign policy based on mutual empowerment and mutual gain.
We demonstrated that a win-win situation is possible, thus protecting the national interests of our country and
improving relations with our neighbors.
Turkey cannot be secure and prosperous on its own in a geography where countries are struggling with economic and political problems.
As stable and prosperous as we are, our region should have the same positive qualities.
So we want for our neighbors what we want for ourselves.
We not only want these things, but we also realize them.
Turkey, due to its geo-strategic position and its outlook on regional and world events, cannot remain indifferent to the events unfolding around it.
Because Turkey is no longer a bystander, but a shaping country.
The establishment of an environment of peace, stability and cooperation in our neighborhood is in the interest of both our country and our neighbors.
This regional perspective is also a principle we envision for the global system.
The policy of zero problems with neighbors was put into practice as a result of this perspective and has yielded significant results in a short period of time.
Turkey today is surrounded by enemies,
living in fear,
is not a country that sees its neighbors as threats and dangers.
Turkey can now look at its region with confidence,
is an actor that develops a regional vision and implements the principles it adopts in its foreign policy.
The AK Party took the concept of bilateral relations to a new dimension and introduced the "High Level Strategic Cooperation Council".
The Strategic Cooperation mechanism we have developed with countries such as Syria, Iraq, Lebanon, Greece and Russia is a new concept and practice in bilateral relations between countries.
Thanks to these councils, Turkey is able to maximize its political, economic and cultural relations with neighboring and friendly countries
and this allows for a new synergy in bilateral relations.
This paradigm shift is one of Turkey's most important achievements in recent years.
As a result, the confidence of the citizens of the Republic of Turkey in our foreign policy has increased
and the visionary foreign policy pursued by the AK Party governments has become a source of pride for our citizens.
In the 21st century, it is no longer possible to conduct foreign policy without having a visionary perspective.
Policies without social legitimacy cannot have regional and global legitimacy and effectiveness.
The AK Party government has won the favor of our nation for pursuing a foreign policy based on social legitimacy.
One of the distinguishing features of our foreign policy is to look at regional and global developments in a holistic manner and to develop principled, not reactive, policies.
A holistic foreign policy allows us to see the big picture as a whole and develop visionary, forward-looking and long-term policies.
Thanks to this inclusive and effective perspective, Turkey today is able to consistently address all regional and global problems from the Balkans to the Middle East, from the Caucasus to Asia, from Africa to Latin America, and to lead result-oriented initiatives.
Thanks to this paradigm shift, Turkish foreign policy has become one of the most talked about, debated and agenda-setting issues not only in Turkey but also outside Turkey.
Turkey's policies and initiatives on critical issues are closely monitored by all actors
and appreciated.
By adopting the "win-win" principle, Turkey gains the trust of different and even hostile parties
and demonstrates that problems can be solved through effective negotiation and cooperation, not conflict.
The mediation role we have undertaken in recent years has played a key role in establishing peace and stability in our near geography from Iraq to Iran, from Lebanon to Bosnia,
and a new ray of hope among the peoples of the region.
Thanks to our proactive and preventive diplomacy before the crisis and our crisis management skills after the crisis, we prevented many conflicts in our region from turning into hot conflicts.
As a result, Turkey's constructive and embracing attitude in conflict areas has been appreciated by all parties
and has enabled them to contribute to the resolution process.
Our negotiation and mediation function, which does not discriminate between parties based on religion, ethnicity or sect, plays a unifying role in regional politics.
As a country with no hidden agenda, Turkey will continue to play an active role in solving regional problems.
In this framework, Turkey's soft power capacity is increasing and gaining depth every day.
Thanks to the performance of the AK Party governments, Turkey stands out as the most important soft power center in the region.
Turkey with its economy and business world,
science and technology infrastructure,
higher education institutions,
with the richness of its cultural heritage
and cultural vitality,
organizational capability,
diplomatic successes
and above all, it has become a great center of attraction in its region with its strengthening democracy.
We have taken important steps to demonstrate Turkey's capabilities.
For example, the Yunus Emre Foundation, which was established to promote and teach Turkish language and culture in major centers of the world, is rapidly expanding
and bringing different societies together with the best examples of Turkish culture and language.
New branches of Yunus Emre Foundation will continue to open in important capitals and centers of the world.
Turkey's success story is being closely followed by the people of other countries
and as a source of inspiration.
This is a very important achievement for both our country and our region.
From now on, our foreign policy will be based on justice, economic development
and democratization principles.
We have established a Public Diplomacy Coordinatorship within the Prime Ministry in order to tell Turkey's success story to the widest masses. Aware
of the importance of public diplomacy in the 21st century, our Party will mobilize every opportunity to explain Turkey's theses in the most accurate and effective way.
The new story of the new Turkey deserves to be told and understood.
As AK Party, we have realized this vision in one of the most important regions of the world, at the crossroads of the Balkans, the Middle East and the Caucasus.
Thus, we have made the natural continuity,  historical depth,  cultural transitivity and human geography of our region one of the pillars of our foreign policy.
In the 21st century, we do not find it right for artificial borders to separate and segregate people, societies and cultures.
We believe that the fundamental values that make human beings human are also universal values.
We know that a people-oriented and justice-centered global system that protects the dignity and nobility of human beings, who are equal to creation, and takes into account the need for freedom and security is possible.
That is why, as AK Party, we have taken revolutionary steps to remove the walls that separate peoples from each other.
We have re-established channels of communication and interaction between the peoples of the region.
We maximized the mobility of people, ideas and goods.
With a humane and realistic foreign policy approach, we went beyond borders and adopted the motto "ask for others what you want for yourself" as a principle in foreign policy.
One of the concrete manifestations of this principle is the implementation of mutual visa exemption.
The number of countries where visas have been mutually abolished during the AK Party's rule has reached 90.
The abolition of visas increases the prestige of the Turkish passport every day
and allows Turkish citizens to travel more comfortably and easily.
Turkish Airlines, which has achieved great success in recent years, offers direct flights to about 30 countries that do not require a visa from Turkey.
Thus, our citizens can fly to more than 30 countries without encountering any obstacles and simply by holding their passports in their hands.
In the new period, we will continue our efforts to expand mutual visa exemption.
Our goal is to abolish visas with all our near and distant neighbors.
In this framework, we will continue our initiatives before our European counterparts to include Turkey in the Schengen Visa system.
As the AK Party, our determination on this issue will continue in the new period.
We also look at our foreign policy and world events from a civilizational perspective.
The Alliance of Civilizations Initiative, which we are implementing together with Spain under the auspices of the United Nations, has become a powerful platform for promoting universal humanitarian and moral values against the challenges and conflicts of the 21st century.
The Alliance of Civilizations, supported by more than a hundred countries as partners and friends, is appreciated and supported as a "movement of virtues" that sees differences as a richness and aims to spread the ethics of coexistence and the spirit of convivencia from East to West, from Europe to the Islamic world, from America to the Middle East, Asia and Africa.
With this civilizational perspective, the AK Party has proved that differences in the world are not a cause for conflict and that a world based on virtue, justice and respect is possible.
In the future, this global civilizational perspective will continue to be one of the fundamental principles of our foreign policy.
The AK Party considers all forms of discrimination, racism and xenophobia as a dangerous attitude that disrupts social peace and cohesion.
In this context, we clearly state that Islamophobia is a crime against humanity.
We have fought effectively on international platforms against the rise of Islamophobia, which refers to discrimination against minority Muslim communities, in recent years.
We will continue to maintain this position in the future.
Because global peace is only possible when justice and equality become real and viable values.
Acting with this vision, AK Party governments have always opposed oppression and stood by the oppressed.
Because we know that a system based on oppression and injustice cannot survive.
We see that it is impossible for regimes that do not respond to the demands of their people to survive.
We have made and are making the necessary warnings for the implementation of these universal principles in all neighboring and brotherly countries without interfering in anyone's internal affairs.
Turkey's transformative influence in the region has become even more evident with the recent events in the Arab world.
The principled foreign policy put forward by the AK Party government will continue to bear fruit for our country to become a world leader.
As Turkey, we are taking firm steps towards our goal of becoming a country on a global scale with our deepening soft power, growing economic capacity, increasing and expanding foreign aid and proactive diplomacy.
After the June 12, 2011 elections, we will continue on this path based on the trust and confidence of our people.
Turkey's presence and influence in international platforms such as the United Nations, G-20, NATO, Organization of the Islamic Conference, Black Sea Economic Cooperation, Turkic Council, D-8 and Union for the Mediterranean is increasing every day.
The support for our non-permanent membership of the UN Security Council (UNSC) is an important indicator of how Turkey's global profile has risen.
Our proactive, constructive and solution-oriented performance during our membership reaffirmed that Turkey has already earned this mandate.
In this framework, we will again be a candidate for the non-permanent membership of the UNSC for the 2015-2016 term.
In 2014, our intention to host the Organization of the Islamic Conference summit is supported by all OIC member countries. The
2014 OIC Summit will be hosted by Turkey
and thus the problems of the Islamic world will be discussed at the highest level and in a comprehensive manner under the auspices of our country.
Within this framework, as the AK Party government, we have assumed the secretariat of the Least Developed Countries (LDCs) summit for 10 years. At the
summit to be held in Istanbul between May 9-13, 2011, we will discuss the problems of the least developed countries in detail
and draw up a ten-year economic growth and human development plan.
With this humanitarian attitude, Turkey has once again demonstrated to the global public that it is not indifferent to the problems of the world's poorest countries.
In the coming period, we will continue our efforts to carry out exemplary work in this field and to find solutions to the problems of poor communities.
The AK Party's foreign policy vision will take Turkey to the position it deserves in the centenary year of our Republic
and make it one of the leading countries in the world.
The multifaceted and multidimensional foreign policy we pursue is in full harmony with the historical background, cultural depth and geo-strategic position of our country.
Our goal in the new term is to carry Turkey to a more respected and effective position in the international arena in the light of these principles and values.
The foreign policy performance of the AK Party governments in the last 8.5 years is the greatest guarantee of our new achievements.
Relations with the European Union
The AK Party sees Turkey's full membership of the European Union as a strategic goal.
The steps we have taken towards this goal have ushered in a new era in Turkey's EU accession process.
Despite the unfair and unfounded opposition of some European countries, the AK Party will continue to take the necessary steps towards full EU membership.
As we stated in 2002, we underline the same point today: Turkey's EU membership and the establishment of democratic standards in our country,
development of our trade relations
and is of strategic importance for further strengthening our existing relations with Europe.
Full EU membership will make Turkey a more effective and decisive actor in regional and global issues.
With full membership, our good relations with European countries will gain a new depth
and create a new dynamism between Turkey and European societies.
Full EU membership is also of strategic importance for the future of Europe.
A Europe that says no to Turkey will be a Europe that has fallen behind the 21st century.
Opposing Turkey's EU membership on the grounds of its population, geography or culture indicates a narrowing of horizons and a lack of vision.
Blocking or delaying Turkey's EU negotiation process due to political issues such as Cyprus also indicates a policy based on inconsistency and double standards.
The main issue that we, as the AK Party, insist on is that Europe should not contradict its own principles and give preferential treatment to Turkey.
Deliberately blocking the opening and closing of chapters by raising issues such as the Cyprus problem or privileged partnership means that the European Union is in contradiction with its own principles.
Despite the anti-Turkey attitude in some European countries, we, as AK Party, will continue our determination for full membership to the EU.
We will continue to implement the reforms we have made and will continue to make in the negotiation process because they are in the interest of our country and our citizens.
In addition to the EU negotiation process, our bilateral relations with European countries are getting stronger every day.
Based on mutual interest and respect, we have established a solid foundation in the political, economic and cultural spheres.
Strengthening these relations is also important for our citizens living in Europe.
As AK Party, we have never left our citizens in Europe alone and we will never leave them alone from now on.
The Presidency for Turks Abroad and Related Communities, which we established within this framework, aims to meet the needs and find solutions to the problems of our citizens and related communities living abroad, starting from Europe.
At this point, while we oppose assimilation for our citizens living abroad, we say "yes" to integration.
We support our citizens to integrate into their communities and play an active role in the political, economic and cultural spheres.
But we reject those who want them to forget their language and culture and assimilate.
The warm and sincere bond that AK Party governments have established with Turks living abroad is the most concrete manifestation of this principle.
United States of America
The long-standing "strategic partnership" relationship between Turkey and the United States of America has gained a new dimension as a "model partnership" in the words of US President Barack Obama.
Turkish-American relations, based on mutual interest, respect and trust, go beyond bilateral friendship and are considered as an opportunity to solve regional and global problems.
Adopting this perspective, the AK Party is committed to developing constructive and comprehensive relations between Turkey and the United States.
and will continue to strengthen it in a results-oriented framework.
Political consultation and cooperation with the US will continue in the AK Party's new term in power.
In addition to Iraq and Afghanistan, the developments in the Arab world in recent months, the Middle East Peace Process, stability in the Caucasus and the normalization process in the Balkans are issues that the two friendly countries closely follow.
Our efforts to establish and maintain peace and stability in these regions will continue and
political dialogue and cooperation with our American counterparts will be maintained with the same intensity.
The development of a common perspective and the implementation of common policies to solve regional problems are crucial to turn the challenges ahead into opportunities.
One of the most important goals of the new era will be to strengthen economic relations between Turkey and the United States
and to increase the volume of trade.
The Economic Coordination mechanism established under the title of "Model Partnership" will be used effectively for Turkish companies to gain a larger share of the American market.
We do not see the existing trade volume between the two countries as sufficient.
In order to increase this, our cooperation with our American counterparts will gain greater momentum in the new period.
In addition to the economy, we will continue to work with the United States with a common perspective on energy, security, counter-terrorism, climate change, education, science and technology.
Transforming the friendship and trust between the Turkish and American communities into concrete projects
and the benefits to both countries constitute the basic framework of our relations with the United States, as with other countries.
Cyprus
The two main strategic objectives of Turkey's Cyprus policy are the protection of the interests of the Turkish Cypriot people
and the creation of an environment of stability in the Eastern Mediterranean.
In order to ensure the security and welfare of the Turkish Cypriot people, we will continue our efforts to increase the international prestige and effectiveness of the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus in every field.
During the AK Party rule, the international recognition and prestige of the TRNC has increased incomparably compared to previous years.
In the new period, these efforts will continue with the same determination.
The principled and decisive foreign policy we have pursued for Cyprus to become an island of peace and tranquility will form the main framework of our Cyprus policy in the future.
Middle East
Turkey's deep and historic relations with the Middle East region are a strength for its new foreign policy vision.
Turkey's historical background, geographical location and cultural depth in this region is an important strategic asset for us.
Turkey is not an external or artificial actor neither in the Balkans nor in the Middle East.
It is a 'noble' part of this geography.
At a time when revolutionary changes are taking place in the Middle East, we, as the AK Party, want to preserve peace and stability in the region,
preventing conflicts
and we support and take steps to meet the legitimate demands of the people.
Given the centrality of developments in the Middle East to global politics, every positive step we take in the region has a positive impact on global politics.
As part of our foreign policy vision, we see the Middle East as a center of peace, stability, prosperity, culture and civilization, not of conflicts, wars, backwardness, poverty and bad governance.
We reject Orientalist approaches to the Middle East.
We support the will of the peoples of the Middle East to be actors in their own history.
Negotiation, not conflict, is the solution to the problems in the Middle East,
We believe that diplomacy, not war, should prevail.
The relations we have developed with the countries and peoples of the Middle East in recent years have made significant contributions to regional peace and stability from Iraq to Lebanon, from Syria to Palestine, from Egypt to the Gulf.
Thanks to the trust we have built and the proactive foreign policy we have pursued, we have played a very important role in solving the problems in the region.
We did not impose ourselves in doing so.
On the contrary, Turkey's view of the region, its assessment of world events and its strong political leadership are appreciated by all parties in the region.
Thanks to the AK Party's foreign policy vision, today Turkey's position on any regional issue is closely monitored.
Acting with this sense of responsibility, the AK Party has broken many taboos from the past and pioneered a new era of friendship and brotherhood between Turkey and the peoples of the Middle East.
We will continue this approach in the future and we will remove the artificial borders and false walls between Turkey and the Middle Eastern geography and people.
While pursuing Turkey's interests, we will also strive to ensure that neighboring and friendly countries in the Middle East benefit from this cooperation.
Because we have shown with many examples that a win-win situation is possible in bilateral and multilateral relations.
The winds of change blowing across the Middle East carry with them opportunities for the region to become more democratic and transparent.
Democracy, justice, transparency, good governance, prosperity and fair sharing of wealth and prosperity are the most legitimate demands and the most natural rights of the peoples of the Middle East as well as of other nations.
It is both a humanitarian and political priority for us that this process of great change takes place without bloodshed.
We see the events in the Middle East as a normalization process.
We see it as the fulfillment, albeit belatedly, of the people's deferred demands.
In the same framework, there is a normalization process in our relations with the countries and peoples of the Middle East.
In the second half of the 21st century, we are determined to further develop this normalization process.
This will usher in a new era of brotherhood, friendship and exchange between the peoples of the Middle East.
Our goal is for the citizens of the Republic of Turkey to be able to travel, trade and develop joint projects with their counterparts throughout the Middle East.
Likewise, we will continue to take steps to ensure that the peoples of the Middle East see Turkey as an important center of trade, diplomacy, education and culture.
In this framework, mutual lifting of visas
and we will continue to implement the High-Level Strategic Cooperation Council
and we will ensure full economic integration between Turkey and the countries of the region.
Balkans
One of the most important areas of application of our global perspective is the Balkans, where we have strong historical and cultural ties.
Establishing peace and stability in the Balkans
and preventing ethnic, religious and political tensions  are among the strategic priorities of regional and global politics.
It is not possible to talk about global peace and tranquility without establishing peace and stability in the Balkans and the Middle East.
Therefore, contributing to political stability and social peace in the Balkans has been the first priority of AK Party governments.
We will continue to implement these policies and strengthen our relations with the Balkan peoples and states.
Our effective diplomacy with all parties to heal the pain of the Bosnian war has yielded results and a new process of dialogue and rapprochement has begun in the Balkans.
We will continue our strong relations with Bosnia and Herzegovina in the fields of economy, culture and education.
The new era with Croatia and Serbia has enabled us to further develop our relations with these countries in all areas.
High-level visits have increased,
our trade volume has grown
and areas of mutual cooperation have expanded.
This policy of rapprochement and normalization also contributes significantly to the establishment of peace and stability in the Balkans.
Our efforts to recognize the independence of Kosovo, the youngest state in Southern Europe, have yielded positive results.
We will continue to provide all kinds of support to Kosovo in the process of Kosovo's statehood.
Likewise, our relations with Macedonia and Albania have gained great momentum during the AK Party rule
and have enabled the development of new areas of cooperation.
In the second decade of the 21st century, our contacts with these countries will further strengthen.
We will continue to develop and strengthen our relations with the cognates and related communities living in these countries and the Balkans.
We will contribute to the sustainability of peace, tranquillity and stability in the Balkans by mobilizing public resources and encouraging the private sector and civil society organizations.
Russia and the Caucasus
The AK Party government has paid special attention to Turkey's political and trade relations with Russia.
As a manifestation of our policy of zero problems with neighbors and full economic cooperation, our trade relations with Russia have shown a great leap.
While Russia meets Turkey's natural gas needs, Turkish companies have started to implement major projects in Russia.
The mutual lifting of visas with Russia has given a new impetus to political and economic relations.
Developments in Turkish-Russian relations have allowed for a new ground for cooperation on various regional issues from the Caucasus to Central Asia.
The gradual abolition of visas with Russia is an important step in accelerating bilateral relations.
We will continue to strengthen our relations with Russia in this framework.
The Caucasus is Turkey's third most important region with direct borders and is of particular importance for Turkey.
Achieving and maintaining peace and stability in the Caucasus is a strategic priority for us.
In this framework, improving relations with Caucasian countries and the continuation of the normalization process is one of the main goals of the AK Party government.
The Caucasus Cooperation Platform, which we have established by taking into account the delicate balances in the Caucasus, aims to establish a relationship based on mutual trust and cooperation between Turkey and the Caucasian countries on the one hand and the Caucasian countries on the other.
The steps taken in this regard= have contributed to minimizing tensions and conflicts in the region.
Our special relations with Azerbaijan will remain important in the new era.
Azerbaijan's political stability and economic development is a matter of utmost importance for both our bilateral relations and regional peace and stability.
A just settlement of the Karabakh conflict as soon as possible is among the priorities of our Caucasus policy.
As AK Party, we will continue to fulfill our duty to end the occupation of Azerbaijani lands and to resolve the Karabakh conflict through negotiations.
The normalization process we initiated with Armenia was prevented from reaching the desired point due to the unconstructive approaches of the Armenian side.
Our position on the resolution of the Karabakh conflict and the genocide allegations is clear.
The AK Party will not allow any solution to be imposed on Turkey that is not based on equity and justice.
In the event of mutual and simultaneous steps towards a solution, Turkey will not hesitate to do its part.
We consider our relations with Georgia, another important Caucasian country, within our regional perspective.
In 2008, we will continue to maintain the balanced policy and the steps taken to prevent tensions.
We will continue to consistently and effectively implement our active foreign policy to make the South Caucasus a region of peace, stability and prosperity.
Our goal is to create a strategic environment based on trust and cooperation among all Caucasian countries and to minimize problems.
Central Asia and Turkic Republics
Our relations with the Central Asian region, the Turkic Republics and the wider Turkic geography have gained great momentum under the AK Party rule,
A great deal of progress has been made, incomparable to previous periods.
Bilateral relations, multilateral meetings and summits, TIKA assistance, investments and activities of Turkish businessmen and non-governmental organizations in the region have laid the foundations of a new era between Turkey and the Central Asian Turkic Republics.
During the period of our government, development support was provided to the Turkmens of Northern Iraq, Crimean Tatars, Meskhetian Turks, Gagauz Turks, Afghanistan-Uzbek Turkmens, Georgia, Azerbaijan and Karakalpak Turks, Mongolian Kazakhs, Kosovo and Macedonian Turks, Western Thrace and Bulgarian Turks,
cultural and historical values have been taken under protection.
The AK Party will continue to develop our relations with the cognate peoples of Central Asia, our ancestral homeland,
and will work to create new areas of cooperation.
It is one of our strategic priorities that the Turkic Republics maintain political stability and realize their economic development.
In this framework, to mutually abolish visas with the Turkic Republics,
to increase political dialogue,
to promote trade
and we will continue to support the activities of civil society organizations.
Manas University in Kyrgyzstan and Ahmed Yesevi University in Kazakhstan, which were established with the support and financing of Turkey, are two important educational and cultural projects we have realized in this geography.
We will continue to support these universities and other educational activities in the same spirit of brotherhood and solidarity.
The students studying here will not only be successful in their fields, but will also be
a bridge between Turkey and this geography.
Strengthening relations between Turkey and the Turkic Republics constitutes the most important pillar of our efforts towards the Turkic geography.
Turkey is not indifferent to the problems in this geography and will continue to mobilize all means at its disposal to ensure the peace, tranquility and stability of its cognate and related communities.
We will implement the High Level Strategic Cooperation Council with other Turkic Republics after Kyrgyzstan.
This will usher in a new era of trust, cooperation and solidarity between Turkey and the Central Asian Turkic Republics.
The establishment of the Turkic World Council is one of the most important steps we have taken within this framework.
Thanks to this Council, the main issues of the Turkic world will be discussed at the highest level and will enable the realization of joint projects.
The Turkic World Council will be one of the most tangible manifestations of Turkey's deep ties with the vast Turkic geography.
Africa
Turkey is a country located at the crossroads of Europe, Africa and Asia.
Our historical ties with Africa give us a strategic advantage in today's globalized and increasingly smaller world.
As a natural consequence of the expansion of vision in Turkish foreign policy, we have taken important steps in the last 8.5 years to strengthen our contacts with Africa.
As AK Party, we will continue these steps in the new period.
The new embassies and consulates we have opened and will open in African countries will increase Turkey's presence and influence on the African continent.
The momentum in our bilateral relations with African countries will gain more depth every day in political, diplomatic, commercial and cultural fields.
Turkish businessmen becoming active in the African market constitutes one of the most important pillars of our African expansion.
The steps taken at the level of bilateral relations have paved the way for Turkish companies and civil society organizations in African countries
and paved the way for the emergence of new opportunities and areas of cooperation.
We will continue this policy with the same determination in the new period.
Through reciprocal visits to African countries, summits and other international meetings hosted by Turkey, a new era of relations between Turkey and the African continents has begun.
Looking at the world and foreign policy as a whole, the AK Party will continue to develop and deepen its Africa policy in the coming years and will
enable the development of new opportunities and areas of cooperation.
East and Southeast Asia
Far and Southeast Asia is one of the important regions where the vision of Turkish foreign policy is expanding.
Under AK Party rule, Turkey's political and economic relations with the wider Asian region have gained great momentum
and Turkey has become one of the region's leading trade centers.
In today's world where the share of Asian economies in the global market is increasing, our country has realized new areas of cooperation and opportunities with the countries of the region.
Turkey's friendly relations with Asian countries are of particular importance for our vision for Turkey in 2023.
Turkey, which is rapidly moving towards becoming a leading country in a globalizing world, has the political, diplomatic and economic means to become an effective actor in the vast Asian geography.
Turkey's rising political and economic profile opens up new areas of opportunity in the wider Asian region.
In the AK Party's new term in power, these opportunities will be maximized and Turkey's sphere of influence in Asia will be expanded.
Turkey signed the Treaty of Friendship and Cooperation with ASEAN in 2010, which will increase Turkey's influence in ASEAN and similar regional platforms.
In political dialogue, trade, investment, science and technology cooperation, energy, security and other areas, Turkey will reach its rightful place in the Asian geography as soon as possible.
In this framework, our aim is to ensure that Turkey becomes an ASEAN Dialogue Partner.
At this point, we will continue to closely follow the stability of Afghanistan and Pakistan and be a bridge between these two friendly and brotherly countries.
We will continue our efforts for a broadly representative and sustainable government structure in Afghanistan.
We will continue to contribute to maintain Pakistan's political stability.
We will continue to strengthen our relations with the three economic giants of Asia - China, India and Japan - in the new period.
Our good relations with these countries at the political level will contribute significantly to the Turkish economy.
Meeting the legitimate demands of Uyghur Turks in the new era
and we will continue to do the necessary work to guarantee their fundamental rights and freedoms.
Latin America
The dynamic and global foreign policy perspective put forward by our Party also covers regions that are considered distant and that have long been outside our sphere of interest.
Latin America is one of these regions.
Despite the physical distance, both historical and cultural ties between Turkey and Latin American societies are remarkable.
Despite all efforts to prevent it, these ties have not disappeared and have survived to the present day.
Today, Turkey and Latin American countries enjoy a constructive relationship based on mutual cooperation and respect.
Our ever-strengthening relations with countries such as Mexico, Brazil, Chile and Venezuela are reducing the physical and mental distances between Turkey and Latin America and opening up new areas of opportunity and cooperation.
Thanks to our active foreign policy, our trade with Latin America has increased significantly in the last 8.5 years.
Our goal in the new period is to further increase these figures and to open new investment and business areas for Turkish entrepreneurs.
In addition to economic relations, our political dialogue and diplomatic relations with Latin American countries will continue to strengthen.
Our cooperation with Brazil to resolve the Iran nuclear issue through negotiations and diplomacy has been widely appreciated.
The Tehran Declaration of May 15, 2010, which we put forward together with Brazil, surprised some circles and raised the question "why Brazil?".
However, our global foreign policy vision considers it normal to cooperate with all friendly countries, regardless of the region of the world, within the framework of common goals.
As a reflection of this perspective, Latin American countries' support for Turkey in international institutions and organizations is remarkable.
Thanks to our active, constructive and borderless foreign policy, Turkey has developed exemplary relations with Latin American countries.
We will continue to strengthen these relations in the future.
Foreign Aid
One of the most rapidly developing areas of Turkish foreign policy in recent years is foreign aid.
The AK Party government, which puts the universal and humanitarian values of our society into practice in foreign policy, sees it as a moral responsibility and a historical duty to extend a helping hand to brotherly and neighboring countries, as well as to friendly societies in need.
The principle of "It is not one of us who is full while his neighbor is hungry" is one of the values that shape our history and culture.
The most concrete application of this principle in 21st century foreign policy is foreign aid.
The AK Party government's performance in the field of foreign aid has made Turkey a respected country in its region and in the world.
With foreign aid increasing every year, Turkey has gained the status of a "donor" (donor) country.
Turkey not only achieved this status, but also demonstrated a rapidly rising profile among foreign aid donors.
We are determined to continue this line of success in the new era of the AK Party.
Turkey's foreign aid covers a wide range of areas, from direct technical assistance to infrastructure services, from the restoration of historical monuments to educational activities.
The technical and humanitarian assistance we have provided in the last 8.5 years through our various institutions and organizations, particularly TIKA and the Red Crescent, is extensively discussed in the book "Executive Actions".
This long list of aid and activities clearly demonstrates the broad human and foreign policy vision of the AK Party government.
Today, TIKA, with its 26 coordination offices in 23 countries, coordinates Turkey's technical assistance in the vast Turkish geography and thus builds strong bridges between Turkey and its kin and neighboring communities.
During our period in power, our ancestral monuments in the vast Turkish geography from the Balkans to Central Asia have been restored and brought into today's culture without sparing any sacrifice.
the infrastructure services provided to friendly and brotherly countries in need have further strengthened the bonds of brotherhood between our societies.
Turkey has also made great strides in humanitarian aid and emergency response in recent years.
In line with Turkey's rising profile, our capacity to respond to natural disasters such as earthquakes, floods and fires is increasing every day.
The activities of Turkey's official and non-governmental aid organizations have become a global phenomenon.
This is one of the most striking results of our broad visionary global foreign policy.
In the AK Party's new term in power, foreign aid will continue to increase
and necessary efforts will be made to spread it over a wider geographical area.
Our humanitarian and technical assistance in the wider Turkic geography will continue to serve the related and friendly communities through sustainable projects.
The restoration works carried out in the wider Turkish geography, the Middle East and North Africa will be continued,
infrastructure services will continue
, and our heirloom monuments around the world will be protected
and put into the service of visitors.
Within this framework, a complete inventory of Turkish-Ottoman monuments in different countries of the world will be made
and their meticulous restoration will continue.
Within the framework of the 2023 vision, our goal is to restore and protect all of our ancestral monuments outside Turkey by the centenary year of our Republic.
Defense
We conduct our national defense policy in a way that contributes to regional and global peace and stability, as well as the protection of our state and citizens against all kinds of external dangers and threats.
We actively participate in international policies and initiatives aimed at ensuring peace and prosperity for all humanity in our region and around the world.
Today, when events occurring outside the country directly or indirectly affect our own citizens and national security, we are implementing a defense policy that will allow us to contribute to the solution of regional and global problems.
Our national defense policy is based on a holistic and multi-dimensional systematic approach in the field of defense and security, and a perspective that places the welfare and peace of people at the center of its focus.
Our defense doctrine is based on the premise that security can be achieved not only through military means, but also through political, economic and sociological factors.
We will continue to pursue an effective and comprehensive defense policy with a perspective that encompasses the requirements of the traditional defense and security approach as well as new risk factors such as water, food, environment, population, virtual environment, energy supply security, climate change and transnational crimes.
In addition to ensuring its own security, Turkey strives to contribute to security, peace and stability in its region.
We are pursuing a defense policy that does not cause fear and uneasiness in our region, but gives hope and confidence.
We are clearing the mined lands that have been a problem between our country and Syria for years.
We enacted a law on the employment of professional contract soldiers to serve at critical border points.
Turkey's participation in peacekeeping and peacekeeping support operations in Bosnia-Herzegovina, Afghanistan, Kosovo, Lebanon, Sudan and the Gulf of Aden is the most tangible indicator of Turkey's foreign and defense policy.
In peacekeeping and peacekeeping support operations, a humanitarian aid-oriented approach is adopted, and the
people of the host country are not targeted, but
aid and projects that will make their lives easier are prioritized.
Our country pioneered the formation of the Black Sea Naval Cooperation Task Group and the Southeast Europe Peace Brigade
and actively participated.
It contributes to Operation Black Sea Cohesion and conducts
Operation Mediterranean Shield for maritime security in the Mediterranean.
We consider having rapid operational capability, high technological equipment and well-trained personnel as the basic components of effective and efficient defense capacity, and we
consider the development and enhancement of defense capacity as a necessary element for the maintenance of deterrence and the preservation of peace and security.
We attach importance to professionalization with the awareness that military service requires expertise, knowledge and experience.
When necessary, military capabilities are used in humanitarian aid and evacuation operations and in response to natural disasters.
As a matter of fact, Turkey's recent humanitarian aid and evacuation operations have been admired and appreciated by the international community.
The domestic defense industry is being strengthened at all stages from design to production in order to reduce foreign dependency in the defense industry.
In the development of the defense industry, great importance is attached to domestic R&D projects and technology management.
We support global cooperation in the fight against international terrorism, which threatens peace and security, regardless of the aims, targets and origins of terrorism.
We pursue an effective and decisive policy within the NATO alliance, which is the most important actor of international cooperation in ensuring national defense.
Depending on technological developments, the virtual environment is used intensively in the flow of daily life and the problems experienced here have serious consequences.
Protecting public and private critical facilities from cyber-attacks,
protecting the freedom of communication and communication of our citizens
and we will continue to take the necessary measures to prevent crimes committed online.
Efforts are being made to prevent the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and ballistic missiles
and international cooperation is being established in this regard.
International efforts in the field of arms control and disarmament are actively participated in.
At the global level, we call for concrete and credible steps towards a world free of weapons of mass destruction.
In this context, we support international efforts to rid the Middle East of weapons of mass destruction without discrimination.
As AK Party, with a vision befitting Turkey's historical background, we will continue to pursue a defense policy that gradually increases and deepens its effectiveness to ensure peace and stability in the region and the world.
