REPUBLICAN Nation Party
Program
Ankara 1954 - 15.4
Republican National Party Program
Article - 1
The aim of the REPUBLICAN NATIONAL PARTY is to establish a State order that will make human rights (*) dominant in Turkey and provide them with reliable guarantees.
The Party aims to achieve this goal based on: a) the principles of liberty, security, equality and justice,
b) the principles of national sovereignty and a secular republic,
c) democratic democratic law in the Western model,
d) He is convinced that nationalism can only be achieved through sincere adherence to the creed of nationalism.
Article - 2
The Party considers it necessary to revise the Constitution in accordance with these objectives and principles and to include the following principles of guarantees and some new institutions explicitly in the Constitution.
{*) The "Universal Declaration of Human Rights" has been placed on other pages.
Article - 3
The principles of guarantees that we want to be included in the Constitution: a) The rights and freedoms in the "World Declaration of Human Rights" (*) published by the United Nations should be clearly expressed and guaranteed in our Constitution,
b) The right to sue for the unconstitutionality of laws,
c) Laws contrary to the Constitution cannot be proposed or made,
d) Amendments to the Constitution should be subject to more secure conditions than today,
e) Theindependence of the courts and the independence of judges from all influence and influence should be guaranteed by the Constitution,
f) Theprinciples governing the rights, duties and responsibilities of civil servants should be laid down in the Constitution,
g) Theprinciples of the modern State, such as secularism, freedom of religion and conscience, should be defined and established in the Constitution,
h) Political parties should be recognized by the Constitution and made into regulated institutions.
(*) The "Universal Declaration of Human Rights" has been inserted on other pages,
III Article - 4
Institutions we want to be included in the Constitution: a) In the opinion of the REPUBLICAN NATIONAL PARTY, the establishment of a second parliament in Turkey has become an urgent necessity.
Therefore, the legislative power will be exercised by the current National Assembly and the second assembly to be established.
The election, organization, duties and powers of both Houses shall be set forth in the Constitution.
b) Constitutional Court: A "Constitutional Court" shall be established, the manner of its organization to be determined by the Constitution.
This Court shall rule on the unconstitutionality of laws.
It settles disputes over election certificates, acts as the Supreme Electoral Council and decides on the dissolution of political parties.
Members of the Constitutional Court may not hold office in the legislative assemblies or other state services, nor may they practice law.
Article - 5
Supreme Council of Judges: A "Supreme Council of Judges" shall be established, the composition of which shall be determined by the Constitution and shall have no relation or relationship with the executive and legislative powers.
It is the prerogative of this council to decide on the appointment, promotion, transfer and assignment of judges and all other personal and administrative matters.
IV Article - 6
The Party's views on the President of the Republic and the Government :a) The President of the Republic shall be elected for a term of seven years by secret ballot from among the members of the Parliament by the bicameral Parliament convened in congress.
A person whose term has expired shall not be re-elected before the expiration of one term.
b) The President of the Republic shall not be liable for acts committed within the scope of his/her office, except for the crimes of treason, assassination and rape of the Constitution and the regime of national sovereignty.
c) The President of the Republic shall remain outside party and political movements, personal and group interests.
d) Except for the Prime Minister, other deputies may be removed from the parliament.
e) The government shall have the confidence of the National Assembly at all times.
The second chamber is deemed to have confidence in the government unless it declares no confidence by a two-thirds majority.
V Article - 7
REPUBLICAN NATIONAL PARTY, Health
- Social assistance,
It recognizes that national services, such as national education, belong primarily to the State.
However, it also sees the benefit of private enterprise in creating organizations to assist the State in these areas.
Article - 8
Our party considers the State to be primarily responsible for the construction and economic development of the country.
The construction of roads and ports, the
provision and improvement of communication facilities and means, the
establishment of large irrigation facilities and power plants, and the
preparation of opportunities to develop and revitalize the country's industry are among the duties of the State in the field of national development.
The area outside these activities should belong to private enterprise.
However, the State should provide encouragement and assistance where private initiative is insufficient.
Article - 9
Stopping activities that lead to the exploitation of labor,
to put an end to all forms of legal or de facto monopolization,
abolish privileges in favor of the State in the field of free competition,
Our aim is to make equity prevail in the relations between count and capital and to prioritize the interests of the country.
Article - 10
Our Party, the State's farmer
and to take a closer interest in labor life;
to the village, to the peasant
and wants labor issues to be dealt with in the first place.
For this reason, as in all democratic countries, it is a matter of economic policy,
Social
and rapid progress in cultural fields,
It considers it essential that a (plan-program), which will make it possible to work in a rational and coordinated manner, should be put in place by experts.
VI Article - 11
Protecting the independence and territorial integrity of our country is the foundation of our foreign policy.
We stand for the equality of nations in all fields of law and for international cooperation and solidarity,
Although it is a fact that national existence can only be protected by national power,
Based on collective trust in the United Nations ideal,
We consider the pursuit of a peaceful, open and honest foreign policy to be in the best interests of the country.
. Our wish and reminder regarding foreign relations is to see a happy Turkey in a permanent world peace,
VII Article - 12
Separation of religion and state affairs,
Preparation and implementation of laws in the affairs of the State and Government according to the needs of the nation and the principles of science,
In addition, our party's view of secularism is that the freedom of religion and conscience is considered as sacred as other rights and freedoms and is guaranteed.
Secularism has never been hostile to religion.
Article - 13
The nationalism to which we sincerely adhere is the unity of thought and feeling.
and a belief in a common life and future.
and as a nurturer and consensus-builder in domestic affairs
and a peaceful and humanitarian nationalism in inter-national relations.
Article - 14
We reject a mentality that would take our country back from the level of progress it has reached, and we
are in favor of making the necessary moves for our nation to reach the level of contemporary civilization as soon as possible.
Article - 15
The Party recognizes the rights of women in all fields that men enjoy and demands that this dignity be confirmed by law,
Article 16
We are opposed to the communist doctrine that restricts human rights and freedoms, and we
are convinced that communism must be openly outlawed in our country.
