A Zeni Dönemde "Gülcü mhp" Gülcü Turkey
The Nationalist Movement Party is the guarantee of the welfare and peace of our nation with its half-century of political experience, as well as its accurate determinations and policies regarding Turkey's opportunities and threats.
In the coming period, it will implement its policies in line with the expectations of our citizens in line with the support of our nation within the framework envisaged by the Presidential Government System, and will fulfill its supervisory duties duly.
After the July 15th treacherous coup attempt, our Party is committed to strengthening democracy,
and strong government,
has made significant contributions to the establishment of a balanced system of government based on an effective Parliament.
In an environment where some quarters were talking about a constitution without "Turks", the first four articles of the Constitution, which regulate the basic qualities of the Republic and the founding principles of the state, were under the guarantee of the MHP.
The fundamental qualities of the Republic of Turkey,
guaranteeing human rights
and the foundations of a structure that guarantees the indivisible unity of the Turkish state have been established.
It has contributed to the emergence of the fundamental characteristics of the presidential government system by making important contributions in terms of enabling the legislature to supervise the executive more effectively, limiting the power of the executive with the powers granted to the legislature, and strengthening the checks and balances mechanisms.
In this way, a system has been created that will facilitate the solution of Turkey's political, social and economic problems and ensure the survival of our country and the welfare of our nation.
The executive branch's dual leadership was eliminated, the legislative and executive branches were strictly separated, and the TGNA's function of overseeing the executive branch was activated.
On the one hand, our party's active position in the Turkish Grand National Assembly ensures that the executive is monitored with a sense of justice and fairness,
on the one hand economic
and will enable it to shape social policies.
The June 24 elections, which are an important intersection in the process of our Republic's 100th anniversary, will be an election in which the Presidential government system will be fully realized.
It is our determination, effort and expectation from our beloved nation to be the guarantor of checks and balances, which is one of the most important features of the new government system, and to achieve an effective representation in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey.
It should not be forgotten that if MHP is strong, Turkey will be strong.
If the MHP is strong, Turkey will remain safe.
If the MHP is strong, our nation will find prosperity and peace.
If the MHP is strong, our citizens will have full stomachs and upright heads.
If the MHP is strong, democracy will be guaranteed.
If the MHP is strong, rights, law and justice will be ensured.
If the MHP is strong, the Turkish state and nation will be carried to the future in independence.
If the MHP is strong, our nation will be sure.
If MHP is strong, "Leader Country Turkey" will be built.
Although there are social, political and economic issues and geopolitical risks facing our country, Turkey's governance culture based on the rule of law and experience in democracy, as well as its
cultural heritage, natural and human resources and geopolitical advantages offer important opportunities for the development and progress of our country.
On April 16, 2017, our Party considers the healthy implementation of the Presidential Government System, which was accepted with the appreciation of our nation, as Turkey's primary goal and considers the implementation of this system as an opportunity for the reconstruction of our state in the next phase by getting rid of the shackles on its feet.
We have no doubt that our beloved nation appreciates the Nationalist Movement Party's love for the state and the nation, which is not based on any political considerations, and its foresights, programs, policies and strategies that will grow our country and make it a country to be listened to in the world.
In its 49 years of political life, the MHP has always fought at the forefront for the survival, peace and security of Turkey and the Turkish nation and will continue this blessed struggle in the future.
The Nationalist Movement Party is committed to protecting Turkey's national existence and historical mission.
And it is the name of a sacred mission that will keep all oppressed nations standing upright on their own feet.
It is the endless labor given for the development of our country and to ensure the welfare and peace of our nation.
Innovation,
democratization
and liberation,
Brotherhood
and is the political window to peace.
It is a unique symbol of national stance, respect for the nation, loyalty to the fallen, loyalty to the homeland, the state and the sacred.
The MHP is a well-established party that evaluates regional and global, political and economic developments within a historical and cultural depth, with a strategic understanding and a Turkish perspective.
They dream not only of today but also of the strong Turkey of the future, and calculate beyond the horizon.
Today, when the new world order is taking shape, the ideal of a world in which the Turkish nation and all humanity will live in peace, tranquility and happiness will only be realized through the realization of a new civilization project centered in Turkey.
The basis of this project will be the Turkish-Islamic culture, which finds its source in the understanding of right and justice that the Turks have practiced without compromise in the geographies they have ruled for centuries.
Turkey will be the center of attraction and attraction of the Turkish and Islamic world thanks to its historical, cultural, human and cultural values and resources.
It is a fact that the Turkish nation is not a derivative community, that Turkey is not just the name of a country, but the name of a land that embodies the legacy of a glorious civilization and a rich Turkish-Islamic tradition, and that this land is a symbol for new meetings and reconciliations in the non-Western world.
In our opinion, the lack of a civilization project, the main framework of which has been drawn, the details of which have been thought through, which the state and the nation have jointly adopted as a road map for the future, and the failure to build a governance structure in accordance with its soul root have been the main reasons behind the problems Turkey has been experiencing until today and why it is not at the level it deserves in economic, social and political terms.
Making the spirit and root values represented by the Turkish-Islamic civilization a new starting point will not only take Turkey out of the confusion and vicious circle it is in, but will also
shed light on the oppressed nations to live in freedom and dignity, and will be a beacon of hope for them.
To achieve this, the Turkish nation must turn towards the values that represent its essence.
In the face of the problems we are facing, Turkey needs to put aside the debates that have been going on for almost a century, many of which have no social resonance, and direct its energy towards the building of a prosperous and happy country and the creation of a new civilization equipped with high values.
We have no doubt that the Turkish nation has the possibility and capability to create a great civilization again by adding universal achievements equipped with democratic values to its vast historical experience and cultural depth.
A new civilizational march to be initiated by the Turkish nation will draw its spiritual climate from Turkish-Islamic sources and its cultural foundations from our ancient values.
This march will first and foremost make Turkey self-reliant, standing on its own strength,
head held high, belly full
and to make it an honorable country where free people live.
This march is also about humanizing the increasingly ruthless phenomenon of globalization,
reducing injustices
and to increase solidarity among nations
It will be a people-centered, peaceful march.
Based on such an understanding, the ideal of "Leading Country Turkey" is an expression of an approach that is rooted in the historical and cultural realities of the Turkish nation and embraces the future.
Achieving this depends on the success of the total development mobilization by first determining a common national attitude and directing all national means and resources towards this goal.
The backbone of this common stance is that the founding principles of our state, the fundamental qualities of our Republic, our historical and cultural heritage that makes us a nation, and our national
and making our moral values the common denominator.
We know and believe that Turkey, which was resurrected with the national liberation struggle led by Mustafa Kemal ATATÜRK at the beginning of the century we left behind, will take action with the same spirit, determination and excitement in the new century and will reach the ideal of "Leading Country Turkey" as soon as possible.
The Nationalist Movement Party, which runs to new horizons with such a belief, is based on the idea and action plan that it envisages for the solution of the problems; nationalized for the Turkish nation,
spiritual and
that speaks from a human point of view;
love, justice,
peace
and Turkish Nationalism, which aims for a secure development.
Human rights and freedoms,
Values such as the rule of law and justice are the fundamental references of Turkish Nationalism and the Nationalist Movement Party.
The Nationalist Movement Party, which has left its mark on the last fifty years of the journey from history to the future, draws its strength from the sacred, its beliefs, its principles and the Turkish nation, and stands to the end, even if alone, against every movement that it believes is not for the good of Turkey.
Our Party is determined to build a civilization centered on Turkey and based on Turkish-Islamic culture and to raise the beloved Turkish nation to the level it deserves.
Undoubtedly, the construction of a Turkey that is capable of ruling the world can only be realized through a Turkey that is inspired by Turkish-Islamic culture, with pride and consciousness of Turkishness.
It can only be the work of national forces that combine Islamic morality and virtue in one body.
The relentless fight against those who act against Turkey's national interests and try to disrupt the unity, solidarity and brotherhood of our nation is of vital importance for our Party.
Turkey's realization of this aspiration depends on all social segments being in a common understanding and solidarity on the axis of history, religion, culture and similar common values, having the determination and determination to walk into the future together, and having harmony and unity of understanding among the institutions of the state in this direction.
We believe that the Presidential Government System requires compromise,
strong governance
and parliamentary structure
In the spirit of national unity and solidarity, the Turkish nation will continue its ancient and blessed march on the basis of our root values.
Our country, in the 21st century, will be at the forefront of the development of peace in its region.
It is the strategic goal of the Nationalist Movement Party to prepare all the necessary conditions for the country to become a strong country that guarantees stability and stability and has a voice and reputation in international relations.
In this framework, since the 90s, our Party has determined and implemented programs and policies aimed at making Turkey a "Leader Country" in 2023, the 100th anniversary of the founding of our Republic, by realizing total national development as a goal of its long-term strategy.
The MHP's raison d'être and unwavering goal is to ensure the survival of Turkishness and the State of the Republic of Turkey and to carry the Turkish nation to the point it deserves.
The Nationalist Movement Party, which conducts politics within the framework of the principle of "My Country and My Nation First, My Party Second" and with an understanding of democratic responsibility culture, endeavors to build "Leader Country Turkey" with determination and determination thanks to the support it receives from its nation.
Societies that establish their national unity and integrity, strengthen their cultural values and social structure, and have a strong economy can become decisive actors in the global order and gain a larger share of the world's welfare.
Political stability is ensured,
A Turkey that is economically and socially strong will also play a decisive role in international relations, thus contributing to peace at home and in the world.
and contribute to its prosperity.
Turkey's dignified stance with its material and spiritual values and deep-rooted state experience will ensure that it will always be respected and listened to.
Turkey has a strong economic structure,
modern, deterrent, technologically capable security forces,
governed by justice,
If it strengthens its social fabric, develops a culture of brotherhood and solidarity, and mobilizes its capabilities and capabilities in line with the goal of a great Turkey, it will go beyond being a regional power and become a global power.
The realization of this and the achievement of a new millennium requires the assimilation of the bitter and sweet experiences of the past millennia.
and completing the democratization process, we will continue to build on our great and deep-rooted state tradition.
and reinterpreting its historical accumulations in the conditions of the new century and bringing them together with contemporary developments.
Turkey's geostrategic position, historical obligations, economic, social and political interests reveal the fact that Turkey should not remain indifferent to the developments in its immediate geography.
Turkey should undoubtedly center itself and have a say in the economic, social and political developments in its immediate and distant neighborhood.
Turkey will not ignore the games for the exploitation of oppressed nations that have been going on for centuries, and will not remain unresponsive to the plans of imperialist ambitions in the cultural geography to remove Turkishness from Anatolia as in the historical oriental issue.
In other words, Turkey will not be the implementer of regional and global projects put forward by others, but the scriptwriter, producer, director and leading actor of its own original projects.
The MHP will be the guarantee of the survival of Turkey and the Turkish nation today and tomorrow as it was yesterday.
Just as our Party's presence on the political scene has contributed to raising democratic standards and establishing a culture of consensus in the past, it will be the guarantee of the dignity of the political institution, democratic values and the rule of law in the future.
1)Our Basic Principles
As MHP, we see politics as a way of developing policies aimed at ensuring the peace and welfare of the nation, and
for this purpose, we envisage that state services should be provided in accordance with the expectations of citizens and that its institutions and rules should be shaped according to this understanding.
Democracy, which is the regime in which the nation is best represented in state administration; the rule of law,
as a system in which human rights and freedoms are guaranteed in the broadest sense
and we believe in the vital importance of institutionalizing democracy.
Our Party, which conducts politics with an understanding that prioritizes democratic political culture, consensus and responsibility, will continue to pioneer this understanding to dominate Turkish political life.
We see an understanding of secularism that respects the beliefs of citizens and is based on freedom of religion and conscience as the guarantee of national unity and integrity.
Our understanding of nationalism, which takes shape by drawing inspiration from the history, culture, traditions and belief world of the Turkish nation, means making the existence of the national and spiritual values of the Turkish nation meaningful and continuous in the line extending from tradition to the future.
We consider it unacceptable that the thousand years of strong state structure and cultural accumulation in the lands we live in should be consumed, polluted, discredited and finally abandoned to the orders of separatist elements and interest gangs with a shortsighted and submissive understanding.
The principle of "live and let live", which constitutes the spiritual basis of our understanding of nationalism, means that our values, which have been filtered through history and are the source of life of our nation, give meaning to our lives in a way that encompasses our whole self, and that this treasure of values, which is enriched and institutionalized by living, is passed on to future generations.
The Nationalist Movement Party adopts an ethical approach that aims to establish love, tolerance and justice in human relations.
We advocate the implementation of principles and standards that will prevent the tendency towards corruption in order to make this understanding dominant in all segments of society with all its institutions and rules.
We envisage the realization of total development in peace, tranquility and prosperity through the development of a culture of social solidarity and reconciliation.
The importance of ensuring justice, merit, equity and institutionalization, and that individual talents can only be transformed into production and value in an institutionalized environment
and that this is only possible in a just society.
With an understanding based on the integration of rich common values instead of the separativeness of artificial differences that have no depth on the basis of history, culture and belief,
We consider the mobilization of our economic and social accumulations towards common goals as a guarantee of our national unity and integrity.
It is more than a legality that ensures the rule of law and order within the democratic system,
We see it as recognizing, acknowledging and guaranteeing the supreme dignity and fundamental rights of the human person.
Based on the fact that no person or institution can be above the law, we see the law as the guarantee of the fundamental qualities of the Republic and universal values.
We believe that a healthy democracy can only rise on the ground of a political culture adorned with moral values such as tolerance, honesty, consistency and sincerity, and we see principled, level-headed and clean politics as the guarantee of democracy.
We argue that it is possible to prevent the corruption in politics, which undermines the public's trust in democracy and the state, by making an understanding with national, moral and social sensitivity dominant.
We believe that every human being has inviolable, inalienable and indispensable fundamental rights and freedoms; we believe in the sanctity of the authority and freedom to exercise these rights and in the indispensability of protecting them from all kinds of abuse, guaranteeing them and making them operational.
To realize a fair and balanced distribution of income in order to consolidate social peace and tranquility,
to keep the national sensitivities of society alive,
We envision the development of a culture of solidarity and the glorification of good qualities such as renunciation and sacrifice against selfishness and indifference.
We believe that it is possible to build a mighty state with a strong governance structure in state administration.
The establishment of a management culture based on efficiency and quality in public service,
We consider it necessary that a transparent, participatory, accountable, protective and coordinating approach based on public trust and aiming to gain the trust of the public, and administrative methods for these should prevail.
Free enterprise is essential,
production is encouraged,
advocates a competitive and equitable economic policy,
In order for Turkish entrepreneurs to have a say in the world economy, we attach strategic importance to Turkish companies and brands gaining global competitiveness.
We aim to rapidly build the infrastructure of the information society, implement policies that will enable the production, use and export of artificial intelligence, information and technology, and raise social awareness in this direction.
In foreign policy, we aim to enrich social, economic and political relations on the basis of political equality, in line with the principle of reciprocity and the observance of national interests, with the understanding of an effective and respected state.
The Nationalist Movement Party acts in a heart mobilization approach by embracing every human being as a sacred being and trust and by winning their hearts, love and respect.
Our Party accepts this understanding as a conscientious responsibility that will contribute to peace at home and in the world, and believes that this goal can be achieved more rapidly if the common attitude to be determined for the ideal of carrying Turkey into the future and the desire to realize it find a place in all hearts.
Our Party, which takes its power from the nation; to serve our country and our citizens,
to make peace, tranquility and brotherhood prevail in our region and in the world
and believes that the main way of realizing the ideal of "Leading Country Turkey" within the democratic order is the political institution and conducts politics in line with this understanding.
With the Presidential Government System adopted by the will of our beloved nation, we believe that Turkey will build the infrastructure that will enable it to become a leading country and a global power.
2) Our Basic Views on Democracy and Human Rights
The protection and development of the inviolable, inalienable, inalienable and inalienable fundamental rights and freedoms of human beings, especially the right to life, is one of the primary duties of the state, and the recognition and guarantee of these rights and freedoms is the basis of freedom, justice and peace.
Our Party, which considers democracy not only as a political regime but also as a way of life, as the guarantee of the rule of law, human honor and dignity, and freedom of opinion, enterprise, religion and conscience, believes in the necessity of the operation of democracy with all its institutions and rules in social and political relations.
As MHP, we believe that a healthy democracy can be established,
We consider that it is necessary to remove obstacles to individual rights and freedoms and to ensure that these rights are exercised in the broadest sense.
We advocate that a new national and democratic constitution to be built on the first four articles of the Constitution, which regulate the founding principles of our state, should be based on as broad a consensus as possible, should include general protection provisions rather than general limitation provisions, and should be based on freedoms.
We believe that the sole owner of sovereignty is the nation unconditionally, that the legitimacy of political powers is based on the national will, and that in the Presidential Government System, the national will is manifested in both the Grand National Assembly of Turkey and the Presidential office.
Our Party believes that any external interference in the democratic regime and in the constitutional powers of the parliament is illegitimate and unacceptable, regardless of the reasoning and justification.
The Nationalist Movement Party advocates that all political views should have the freedom to form parties and to express, defend and disseminate these views within the constitutional framework and on democratic platforms, provided that they do not target the indivisible integrity of the state with its country and nation and do not consider terrorism and violence as political aims and tools.
Believing that political parties can only be dissolved by the Turkish nation and through the ballot box, the Nationalist Movement Party opposes the dissolution of political parties, except for parties that consider and support terrorism and violence as political aims and means, and envisages the principle of individual responsibility instead of party dissolution.
We believe that the press, broadcasting and other means of communication should not be restricted, should not be censored and should be free, provided that they are not contrary to the indivisible integrity of the State with its country and nation, the fundamental principles of the Republic, national security and public order.
In order to strengthen a well-functioning civil society structure in our country, the Nationalist Movement Party envisages the participation of citizens in the supervision of public services by civil organizations in which citizens will take part with the responsibility of being individuals.
Our Party attaches importance to the development of civil society organizations and their activities in terms of strengthening the relationship between the individual and the state and increasing civil participation in politics.
A decisive and effective fight against moral pollution and corruption, which threaten the existence of the democratic system and undermine trust in state institutions, is a requirement of our "clean politics-clean governance" approach.
The Nationalist Movement Party considers the fight against corruption as one of the fundamental elements of its political approach.
In this respect, we believe in the urgency of regulations that will actively introduce ethical rules into our daily lives against corruption and corruption in politics and public administration, non-governmental organizations, media and business, sports and arts.
Our Party is strongly opposed to all forms of torture and persecution, inhuman and degrading behaviors and practices and believes that everyone has the right to life, to protect and develop his/her material and spiritual existence and that the personal freedom and security of every individual must be ensured and his/her life must be secured.
Our understanding of freedom of thought and opinion is based on the principle that everyone has the freedom of thought and opinion, the freedom to express their thoughts and opinions and to live as they believe, provided that this freedom does not harm national unity and integrity, public interest and public morality.
The Nationalist Movement Party believes that the privacy of private and family life cannot be touched, considers the right to demand respect for private and family life as a fundamental human right, and adopts as a basic principle that the inviolability of housing is essential and that no one's residence may be entered without a duly obtained judge's decision in cases determined by law.
We argue that freedom of communication is a fundamental human right and cannot be interfered with and its confidentiality cannot be violated.
Everyone has the right to freedom of conscience, religious belief and opinion.
Our understanding of freedom of religion and conscience is based on the principle that freedom of religion and conscience should not be obstructed in public and state life, that people should not be condemned, criticized or despised for their beliefs and worship, and that freedom of religion and conscience should not be restricted on any grounds whatsoever.
Our Party believes that everyone has the right to education and learning and that this right cannot be denied by any means whatsoever, that education and training should be carried out under the supervision and control of the state
and rejects education in a language other than Turkish.
The Nationalist Movement Party believes that it is essential to exercise the right to organize, assemble and demonstrate in accordance with its essence, provided that it is not contrary to the fundamental principles of the Republic, national security and public order.
Our Party stands against all forms of de facto and de jure discrimination against and abuse of women and considers it necessary to protect children against all forms of rights violations and abuse, including those caused by their families.
We believe that everyone has the right to a fair trial before the judicial authorities through the use of legitimate means and remedies and that no action or proceeding may be excluded from judicial review.
In accordance with the principle of equality of all before the law, our Party considers it necessary to abolish the immunities in our Constitution and laws and to ensure that everyone has the freedom to seek their rights.
In various periods of the history of the Republic, artificial polarizations have unfortunately caused social rifts, and the national unity and solidarity to be damaged.
The chaos and conflict scenarios, which are designed within the framework of the imperialist goals of the global playmakers and whose methods, tools and actors change according to the time and conditions, but whose main goal does not change, have cost our state and nation a lot.
Turkey's ability to break out of its shell and bring civilization-building values to oppressed nations requires political, social and economic reconciliation.
As a result of the problems Turkey is facing, the need for a consensus on the founding principles of our state, the fundamental qualities of our Republic and our common national and spiritual values has increased.
By establishing a democratic political environment and making a culture of reconciliation dominant in politics, economy and social relations, vicious debates that harm Turkey will be ended, political and economic operations that weaken Turkey's hand and reduce the peace and prosperity of the Turkish nation will be prevented.
1) Ensuring National Unity
Nationalist Movement Party; By protecting the unity and solidarity of the Turkish nation,
to prevent areas of social unrest from turning into confrontations and
It aims to solve social problems and issues by uniting around the ideal of living together while respecting everyone's beliefs.
In this framework, our national and spiritual values should not be made the subject of social conflict, and problems based on faith, ethnicity and culture should be resolved with an understanding of national unity and integrity.
Instead of highlighting differences, a national perspective that integrates common values should be reflected to the public; in this context, our common values should be explained and processed by clergy, educators, sociologists, opinion leaders and media organizations.
Realization of a development model in which all citizens benefit equitably from the blessings of the modern world,
that the compassion of the state is felt by citizens in the remotest corners of the country, that no one is left hungry or in need,
to rule with justice,
It is a fundamental duty of the state to ensure complete peace and security.
In this context, we find it important to implement the "Eastern and Southeastern Anatolia Region Development Program" that will ensure national unity and integration by ensuring economic growth, social development and social reconciliation in the Eastern and Southeastern Anatolia Region.
2) The Importance of Social Solidarity and Reconciliation
The Republic of Turkey was shaped around the ideal of unification and embrace, and the cadres of the period built the foundations of the new state by agreeing on the existence of a national state, national identity, national language and the Turkish nation.
The founding will of our state is based on Turkish Nationalism, and the spiritual basis of Turkish Nationalism, which is the political mission of our Party, is the principle of "live and let live".
In order for our country to survive in global competition, it needs to realize a mindset transformation that covers the whole society and every field.
In order to build the future together, there is a need for dialog and unity between layers of government, social segments, political actors and citizens in economic, social and political fields.
As long as such a culture of reconciliation cannot be established among these groups, it is not possible for our country to respond in a healthy way to the challenges of the age.
A social consensus on fundamental national and human values, national ideals and goals will make it possible for Turkey to reach a consensus on vital issues and facilitate the cooperative implementation of plans and programs for the future.
The Nationalist Movement Party envisages that Turkey will move towards great goals and mobilize all its means, resources and capabilities in line with the goal of "Leading Country Turkey" with the broadest social consensus and agreement.
3) Social Reconciliation
As stated in our Constitution, everyone who is bound to the Republic of Turkey by the bond of citizenship has equal rights and obligations.
The principle of equality of individuals, which is the foundation of democracy, also stipulates that no ethnic or religious group should be privileged or favored.
Our Party sees all our citizens as one and equal, regardless of their ethnic, sectarian or religious origin, and strongly opposes the fueling of their differences on artificial grounds.
Nationalist Movement Party; The fundamental qualities of the Republic,
Turkish national identity,
democratic regime and
It considers values such as fundamental human rights as indispensable and does not find it right to even discuss them.
Our Party considers these principles and values as the fundamental building blocks of our social peace and prosperity, unity and solidarity.
There is no doubt that a general consensus on an understanding where local and regional differences are seen as complementary colors within the richness of Turkish culture will make a significant contribution to social peace and tranquility.
For us, politics is not a competition focused on getting more votes, but an effort to protect and ennoble social integrity in order to increase the interests of all members of our nation and our state.
Our Party believes that republic and democracy are two complementary concepts, and that the understanding of these two concepts as if they were in opposition to each other damages both of them.
4) Political Consensus
That politics is based on a moral foundation,
where extremes are honed,
where democratic maturity and a culture of consensus prevail,
We consider it necessary to make Turkey's national and spiritual values the common denominator of politics.
Our Party believes that "my country and my nation first, then my party" should prevail in the search for political compromise.
As a necessity, he pioneered the constitutional reform that envisaged a change in the system of government in order to re-establish the power of the state by paving the way for politics that had become clogged and worn out.
Undoubtedly, keeping alive the political consensus and the Yenikapı spirit of national resurrection that emerged in the aftermath of the July 15 coup attempt is of great importance for ensuring our national unity and solidarity.
Ending unconstructive political bickering and avoiding artificial debates that have a negative impact on the welfare of our nation,
the state is strong, effective
It is clear that political considerations must be set aside in order to strengthen state administration and authority by making it transparent.
In order to meet this need, it is a matter of priority for us to reinforce the culture of consensus in politics in accordance with the spirit of the new government system, which was approved by our beloved nation with the 16 April 2017 referendum.
The "People's Alliance", which brings together our Party and the Justice and Development Party, has been the best example of national stance, political compromise, and the compromise that embodies the determination and determination to establish Turkey as a Leader Country by acting together.
5) Economic Reconciliation
In Turkey, in order to solve economic problems, it is imperative that the relevant parties and actors create an environment of consensus.
Taking the views of the public and various social segments through professional organizations in making economic decisions and policy choices will help to find rational solutions to problems within the existing conditions.
Only in such an environment of participation and dialogue can the satisfaction of all social groups and their consent to the programs to be implemented be ensured.
In overcoming economic problems, overcoming the problems of trust between various social segments, political actors, layers of government and the public, eliminating hesitations and transforming doubts into mutual trust,
sharing the blessings and burdens within the framework of equitable measures,
ensuring that no segment is burdened beyond its tolerance, and ensuring that those who participate in production receive a fair share in proportion to their contributions constitute the basis of the culture of "economic reconciliation".
6) Dynamics of Social Consensus: Nationalism and Democracy
Our party; nationalism in preparing the Turkish nation for new breakthroughs and goals in brotherhood
and democracy as inseparable concepts.
We believe that nationalism is the most important intellectual force that will enable a nation to achieve goals such as solidarity, progress and catching up with the age.
Democracy; the rule of law,
where human rights and freedoms are guaranteed in the broadest sense,
We see and embrace a system in which the nation is best represented in state administration.
Believing in the vital importance of the institutionalization of democracy, our Party will continue to lead the way for the democratic political culture to dominate Turkish political life with an understanding that prioritizes the ethics of compromise and responsibility.
The Nationalist Movement Party's view of the issues and its solution proposals are based on the idea of love, which addresses the Turkish nation from national, spiritual and humanitarian perspectives,
justice
freedom,
peace
and an understanding of Turkish nationalism that aims for a secure development.
Our Party is committed to nationalism in preparing the Turkish nation for new breakthroughs and goals in peace, tranquility and brotherhood.
and democracy as two key concepts of the political and cultural framework.
From the very beginning, our understanding of nationalism has been strongly opposed to racism and discrimination, and has been the expression of a compromise consciousness that recognizes cultural and social unity and solidarity as a prerequisite for the ideal of living in peace and prosperity.
Our nationalism has been a constructive, cohesive, reconciliatory and unifying element of national strength, nourished by the perfect national identity and inclusive national culture that has been formed throughout history in the name of the Turkish nation.
In this respect, both the Nationalist Movement Party with its 49 years of political experience and the idea of Turkish Nationalism have never been discriminatory and exclusionary.
Democracy, which stands out as the best form of government discovered by mankind, is an indispensable condition for different opinions within society to live in an understanding based on a fraternal approach and respect for each other.
In this respect, it is of utmost importance that all social segments understand and internalize democracy not only in its political dimension but also in its cultural and social dimensions.
For this reason, the Nationalist Movement Party attaches great importance to the development of a culture of social solidarity and reconciliation.
In this country where we have been living together as brothers and sisters for a thousand years, the Turkish nation, which is too united to be separated for any reason, will protect its common past, culture, destiny and future, and will keep its brotherhood alive forever, and will say "Everyone is Equal Turkey".
As a matter of fact, the Turkish nation, which said "Stop!" to the treacherous July 15th attempt, declared to friends and enemies with the "Yenikapı Spirit" that it wanted to move into a new era in which threats to its survival could not flourish again, and gave it a legal basis with the April 16th Referendum.
1) The Crisis-Producing Structure of the 1982 Constitution
The constitution has been one of the most important issues debated in Turkey for many years.
The 1982 Constitution organized the executive in a way that deviated significantly from the classical parliamentary system, especially in terms of the powers and responsibilities of the president.
Despite many amendments since its entry into force, the "coup spirit" contained in the Constitution has not been eliminated.
The president, who is supposed to have symbolic powers in parliamentary systems, is vested with very broad powers and the executive is envisaged to be carried out by two powerful bodies.
However, while the prime minister and members of the council of ministers, who are the politically responsible party of the two-headed structure, are held criminally responsible and accountable before the Turkish Grand National Assembly, the president is held responsible only for "treason".
This distorted order in the Constitution became more complex over time, and took on a new dimension as a result of the 367 crisis during the Presidential Election in 2007.
The 367 crisis, a legal oddity imposed by the Republican People's Party (CHP) and the centers of tutelage, turned into a system crisis with the Constitutional Court's approval.
In order to prevent the system crisis from turning into a regime crisis, the MHP called for the parliamentary elections to be held earlier.
After the elections held on July 22, 2007, our Party, which entered the TBMM with 71 deputies, participated in the vote in the General Assembly in the presidential election and ensured that the 367 crisis was resolved.
Even though the crisis has been resolved, the need for a new arrangement to permanently purify the system from the problems has become necessary and a constitutional amendment has become mandatory.
In 2007, a constitutional amendment provided for the direct election of the president by the people.
This situation further distanced the parliamentary system from its norms.
In the post-1982 period, the problems of the parliamentary system, which was gradually destroyed, gained a new dimension with the direct election of the president by the people in 2014.
The imbalance of authority-responsibility between the two heads of the executive branch, the president and the prime minister, and the resulting debates on lawlessness have invited a regime crisis, as in the past.
The parliamentary system has lost its function, lost its ability to solve problems, the debates on lawlessness at the top of the state have taken politics captive, the checks and balances between the powers have been undermined, and
Turkey's peace, security and survival have begun to be threatened.
As a matter of fact, the perpetrators of the July 15, 2016 coup attempt cited the unlawfulness at the top of the state as a "so-called justification" in the pirated declaration they announced on TRT screens.
It has become inevitable for the survival of the Turkish state to prevent undemocratic interventions triggered by the bottlenecks in the government system, for Turkey to become a developed, democratic country and to get rid of the shackles on its feet.
In short, amending the Constitution and redesigning the system of government has become a necessity for Turkey.
2) July 15 Betrayal
On July 15, 2016, the Turkish nation faced one of the biggest betrayals in Turkish history.
On the night of July 15, FETO terrorists who infiltrated the Turkish Armed Forces rained bullets on our citizens, bombed the Grand National Assembly of Turkey, the embodiment of the national will, and tried to put shackles on Turkish democracy.
As a result of the coup attempt, unfortunately, 251 sons of our homeland were martyred and 2194 heroes were veterans.
The invasion attempt, which wanted to plunge Turkey into chaos and to divide and disintegrate the country by starting a civil war, was prevented by the Turkish nation's defense of its state, democracy and national will.
The Republic of Turkey has come back from the brink.
This treacherous coup attempt, in which our citizens, who are lovers of democracy and country and who are the epitome of courage, put a stop to the tanks, has been a turning point for Turkey, a new beginning in every respect, and a political milestone.
In this process, it has been better understood that no political considerations are more prioritized and important than the existence of the state.
The political understanding prioritizing national interests consolidated its dominance in Turkish politics and paved the way for the reshaping of the government system.
Upon the attitude and call of our General President Devlet BAHÇELİ to protect democracy at the very beginning of the treacherous coup attempt, Turkish nationalists and countrymen embraced democracy before anyone else, stood by the state and national will and prevented the coup from achieving its goal.
The coup attempt and its aftermath have shown everyone how important and prioritized the survival, unity and solidarity of the state and the nation are.
It was realized after that fateful night that if the homeland is occupied, there will be no space for politics.
With this understanding, the "Spirit of National Resurrection" was created with the Democracy and Martyrs' Rally organized in Yenikapı on August 7, 2016 and supported by millions.
In Yenikapı, a common political attitude was determined to strengthen our democracy and develop our country by making the founding principles of our state, the basic qualities of our Republic, our national and spiritual values the common denominator.
The Nationalist Movement Party has remained loyal to the Yenikapı Spirit to the end and has invited all political parties to embrace this spirit and act in accordance with it.
Political structures lacking national and spiritual sensitivities, especially the CHP, did not respond positively to our call, and attempts to disrupt the fight against FETÖ continued unabated.
It has been determined that FETÖ traitors, who are enemies of Turkey, have insidiously settled in all cells of the state, including education, health, judiciary, police and the Turkish Armed Forces, as well as in non-governmental organizations, professional chambers and all segments of society.
In this process, when it became clear that FETÖ was plotting to design politics in line with its own treacherous ambitions, it was also revealed that the attempts to take over the MHP, which started after the November 1, 2015 elections, and the demands for an extraordinary congress for this purpose were also linked to FETÖ.
A state of emergency (State of Emergency), a legitimate constitutional institution, was declared on July 20, 2016 in order to remedy this situation threatening our national survival and to cleanse the state of FETÖ traitors.
It is clear that it would not be realistic and possible for Turkey to fight against FETÖ, PKK, ISIS and other terrorist organizations with ordinary methods in such an extraordinary situation.
For this reason, the MHP has deemed the declaration of the state of emergency necessary and has taken a stance in favor of the continuation of the state of emergency until a decisive success is achieved in the fight against FETÖ.
While Turkey has been relentlessly fighting against FETÖ, it has also faced attempts by pro-FETÖ circles at home and abroad to corner Turkey economically and politically.
In order to create a terror corridor in the south of Turkey, an illegitimate referendum was first held in the north of Iraq, and a puppet terrorist state extending from Iraq to Syria and the Mediterranean with the cantons created in Syrian territory.
Many countries hostile to Turkey, particularly the United States and European countries, have supported the YPG/PYD terrorist organizations in this region and publicly provided them with heavy weapons and ammunition.
In this period of proxy wars in the Middle East, where terrorist organizations such as ISIS, PKK and its Syrian extension YPG/PYD are used as subcontractors, terrorist acts have also increased at home.
In this process, Turkey had to fight against seven nations.
By using its deterrent power, Turkey first neutralized the illegitimate independence referendum in Iraq and ensured the protection of Iraq's territorial integrity.
Then, with the Euphrates Shield and Olive Branch operations in northern Syria, Turkey continued its just and legitimate struggle to eliminate the terrorist organization threatening Turkey's sovereignty rights, peace and security.
After the 1974 Cyprus Peace Operation, the Euphrates Shield and Olive Branch operations were the biggest military operations Turkey has ever undertaken, and they prevented the terrorist corridor from extending from Iraq to the Mediterranean Sea.
However, the threats to Turkey's survival have not yet been completely eliminated.
The terrorist organization east of the Euphrates River continues.
Under all circumstances, Turkey will continue to fight against the threats to its sovereignty and security rights, regardless of the circumstances, and will take the survival of its state and nation as a basis.
In such a historical period, it has become imperative to make a system change in line with our deep-rooted state traditions, which will save our country from the problems caused by the parliamentary system by eliminating the structural weaknesses in the administration and its structure that prepares the ground for non-democratic pursuits.
3) Constitutional Amendment and Principles of the New Government System
Almost everyone in Turkey, regardless of their political views, has argued that the Constitution should be revised in order to remove the traces of the coup d'état, pave the way for politics and establish a more effective governance structure.
Responding to public demands for a new constitution, political parties have also promised a compromise and more democratic constitution in their election manifestos.
In this context, the discussions in the Constitutional Reconciliation Commission established in the Turkish Grand National Assembly on the content of the new constitution and how the system of government will be shaped have sometimes reached grave points that the Nationalist Movement Party could never accept.
Attempts to change the first four articles of the Constitution and to remove Turkishness from the Constitution have become a threat to the survival of the Turkish state and nation.
On the other hand, the confusion of authority and responsibility caused by the two-headed structure of the executive
and the "lawlessness" debates have become an important factor triggering the survival problem.
The MHP has taken a historic initiative to put an end to these destructive debates by ensuring the eternal survival of the state and the nation and guaranteeing the fundamental qualities of our Republic.
Our party wanted to end the chaos and confusion in the state, to unite and strengthen our nation through reconciliation, to secure our future, and to put an end to the de facto situation and legal dilemmas by putting forward a permanent national consensus.
In this context, the MHP called on all political actors and all segments of society to find a way out in accordance with this understanding for political consensus and cooperation, and suggested that constitutional amendment proposals, if any, be brought to the agenda.
It has been declared that our party will make a constructive contribution to a more democratic constitution worthy of our nation, which will eliminate the problems experienced.
However, only the AK Party has responded to this call, while other parties have refrained from taking responsibility on such an important issue.
The AK Party prepared a draft constitutional amendment and submitted it to the MHP.
The commission established between the two parties conducted negotiations on the draft text, and the constitutional amendment package, which was prepared based on common principles, ideas and sensitivities, and which included significant contributions from the MHP, was submitted to the Turkish Grand National Assembly.
With the compromise reached between the MHP and the AK Party, a new government system was created to solve the problems in the system, and the "Presidential Government System" was built to respond to the risks and threats Turkey is exposed to.
The basic qualities of the Republic, Turkish national identity,
democratic regime
and values such as fundamental human rights have become indispensable to the new system.
The April 16, 2017 constitutional amendments adopted in the April 16, 2017 referendum have made arrangements to ensure the indivisible unity of the Turkish state with its country and nation and to remove it from the field of discussion.
Our Party has made significant contributions to strengthening democracy and establishing an effective and balanced government system, and has fulfilled the demands of our nation with a sense of democratic responsibility.
The constitutional amendment strengthened the separation of powers.
The legislature was able to monitor the executive more effectively and the checks and balances between the powers were strengthened.
It is ensured that the President and ministers can be held accountable and that the power of the executive is limited by the powers granted to the judiciary and the legislature.
With the constitutional amendment, a new system specific to Turkey has been established that will facilitate the solution of Turkey's political, social and economic problems, ensure fast and effective decision-making, and ensure both the survival of our country and the welfare of our nation.
The amendments made within this framework are briefly as follows: The two-headedness in the executive was eliminated and executive powers were given to the president as a whole.
The era of coalitions came to an end, and a fast functioning, quick decision-making government structure focused on solving citizens' problems and growing Turkey was established.
The judiciary, the legislature and the executive are strictly separated from each other, and the separation and relations between the powers have taken their proper form.
A strong system of checks and balances between the legislature and the executive was established and the rule of law was guaranteed.
- The President will be elected for a maximum of two terms and will be subject to both legislative and judicial oversight.
An impeachment mechanism has been created by imposing criminal liability on the President.
Thus, the president will be held accountable not only for the crime of "treason" but for all his actions and transactions.
In addition to facilitating the referral of the President of the Republic to the Supreme Court for any offense, it is stipulated that the proceedings before the Supreme Court must be conclusively completed within six months.
In the event of an investigation against the President, the President's powers are also limited, preventing him from deciding to renew the elections.
Vice Presidents and ministers will be held responsible for all crimes committed in connection with their duties.
The President will only be able to issue decrees limited to "executive matters".
The President will not be authorized to issue decrees on fundamental rights, personal rights and duties, and political rights and duties.
The President of the Republic will not be able to issue decrees on matters exclusively regulated by law in the Constitution and on matters explicitly regulated by law.
Decrees issued by the President will not have the force of law.
If the Presidential Decree and the law have different provisions, the provisions of the law shall apply.
If the Parliament enacts a law on the same subject, the presidential decree will become null and void.
Presidential decrees will be subject to the review of the Constitutional Court.
Presidential decrees issued during the state of emergency will be debated and decided by the Turkish Grand National Assembly within three months, otherwise they will automatically cease to be in force.
The checks and balances mechanism will function when the President exercises his power to "send back the laws".
If Parliament re-adopts the returned law with an absolute majority (301), the president will have to approve it.
Under the current system, the power to renew elections, which is granted to the president only in the event of the failure to form a government, is also granted to the TGNA in the new Constitution.
Thus, a balanced relationship between the legislature and the executive has been established.
When the President or the Parliament exercises this power, both the presidential and parliamentary elections must be renewed together.
In the event of a potential crisis between the legislature and the executive, the abuse of this power will be prevented, since if either party decides to renew the elections, it will cease to exist.
The interdependence of the terms of office of the legislature and the executive will necessitate harmony and compromise between these two bodies.
Parallel to the increase in Turkey's population, the number of members of the TGNA was increased from 550 to 600, increasing its representativeness and inclusiveness.
It was no longer the rule that the party that won the majority in the Parliament would form the government and dominate the executive in an absolute sense, thus freeing the legislature from the inevitable domination of the executive.
The executive will not be able to submit any other bill to Parliament other than the budget bill.
Parliament will have the authority to approve the draft budget law either as is or with amendments.
In the event that the budget cannot be enacted on time, the provisional budget is again subject to the approval of Parliament.
In the event that the provisional budget cannot be enacted, the previous year's budget will be increased by the revaluation rate until the new budget law is adopted.
The legislative power of the TGNA will be open to the review of the Constitutional Court.
In order for the legislature to oversee the president, the mechanisms of "parliamentary inquiry", "general debate", "question" and "parliamentary investigation" have been retained in the Constitution.
MPs' written parliamentary questions were required to be answered within 15 days, increasing the effectiveness of oversight.
The independence as well as impartiality of the judiciary was constitutionally guaranteed, and it became possible for the first time for the majority of the members of the Council of Judges and Prosecutors (HSK) to be elected by the Parliament.
The voting age was lowered to 18, paving the way for young people to be represented in parliament and actively participate in politics.
Martial law, reminiscent of interim regimes, was abolished.
The essence of the constitutional amendment is a change in the system of government.
The constitutional amendment package was approved first by the Turkish Grand National Assembly and then by our beloved nation through the referendum held on April 16, 2017.
With the will of the Turkish nation, the enemies of Turkey suffered a heavy defeat in the referendum in order to secure the existence of the state and the nation and to carry it into the future in independence.
The remaining provisions of the Constitutional amendment, which partially entered into force following the referendum, will enter into force with the upcoming elections on June 24, 2018, and the "Presidential Government System" will be fully operational.
Turkey's path will be paved, its future will be enlightened and the construction of a strong Turkey will become possible.
4) Goals and Objectives of the Presidential Government System
The Presidential Government System is undoubtedly the most important governance reform in the history of the Republic and the most dynamic democratic choice that responds to conditions and developments.
In our multi-party political life, the April 16th referendum was a milestone, even a democratic covenant.
The Presidential Government System, which is the choice and will of the Turkish nation, is a governance structure in which political and social consensus comes to the fore and the national will is directly manifested and centralized.
The goals of a strong state, strong governance and democratic stability are the backbone of the new system.
The pillars of the Presidential Government System are that the legislative, executive and judicial branches of government will become stronger, more independent and more effective in terms of checks and balances.
With the Presidential Government System, our country will have a system of governance that will ensure stability in governance and fairness in representation.
The Presidential Government System minimizes the possibility of polarization.
Considering that the threshold for the presidential election has effectively increased to fifty percent plus one, political parties have no choice but to compromise and form a moral alliance.
Accordingly, amendments to the laws on political parties and elections paved the way for political parties to enter parliamentary elections in alliances, and the electoral system was made more democratic by lifting the prohibitions on this issue.
Instead of informal alliances based on trickery and subterfuge, the ground was laid for legal, public and moral alliances.
The People's Alliance emerged as a manifestation of this political and moral understanding.
As one of the parties forming the People's Alliance, we aim to contribute to the rooting of the Presidential Government System in the coming period.
We believe that the Presidential Government System will pave the way for Turkey to become a regional and global power center and a "Leader Country".
That we have entered a new political process, where democratic maturity and a culture of consensus prevail, where exclusionary and marginalizing discourses and styles are refined,
We find it important that a political understanding in which Turkey's national and spiritual values are accepted as the common denominator should prevail.
The new system of government, "strong government,
established the conditions for an "effective parliament
and paved the way for a stronger response to the threats Turkey faces.
Thanks to the new government system, the state and the nation will be integrated, national consciousness and sovereignty will be the sole determinant of politics, and
a more effective fight against terrorist structures such as FETÖ, PKK and ISIS will become possible.
A strong checks and balances mechanism will be established between the legislative, judicial and executive branches of government; a strict separation of powers will eliminate the domination of the executive over the legislature and enable the Turkish Grand National Assembly to become more effective and powerful.
The effective oversight power of the Parliament will balance the executive branch, the Presidency, and the executive will no longer be able to overstep its authority.
With the new constitutional arrangements, instead of an unlimited authority and an irresponsible president, a presidency that will be supervised by the judiciary and the legislature and accountable to the nation will be established.
The debate on lawlessness at the top of the state will end, never to be reopened again.
All these arrangements will end the disagreements and disputes over constitutional norms that supposedly "justify" coups and create a stable and crisis-free system of government.
The representation of the Nationalist Movement Party with a strong group in the Turkish Grand National Assembly is of great importance in terms of monitoring and supervision of the executive branch of government, the president.
Our Party will ensure the peace and prosperity of our nation through its activities in the Parliament.
and enhancing security
and will take steps to ensure that Turkey becomes a country with a voice in the world.
While all these developments were going on, anti-Turkey lobbies wanted to deepen the vulnerabilities in the Turkish economy and put an economic crisis scenario into action.
Despite the fight against FETÖ, the cryptic veins have always been active, the centers of betrayal have not given up and the danger has not passed.
In this environment, where the need for Turkey to be brought to salvation with unity continues, the most important goal before us has become the establishment and implementation of the Presidential Government System with all its institutions and rules as soon as possible.
The realization of this objective required, first and foremost, that parliamentary and presidential elections be held as soon as possible to ensure the full implementation of the system.
The first step on this path has been taken with the decision to hold early elections.
With the election victory of the "People's Alliance" formed by the MHP and the AK Party, which built the Presidential Government System in a national and historical consensus, the preparation and formation phase of the system will be completed and the implementation period will begin.
1) The Necessity of Early Elections
The April 16, 2017 constitutional amendment stipulated that the Presidential and Parliamentary General Elections will be held together on November 3, 2019.
The same provision stipulates that if the Parliament decides to move the parliamentary elections to an earlier date, the presidential elections will be held together on the same date.
However, foreign powers and their pawns inside the country, who want to prevent the Presidential Government System from being implemented, have accelerated their attempts to create political turmoil.
On the other hand, regional risks and dangers emanating from Syria have become chaotic and complex, which are increasingly difficult to avoid.
Recently, dark scenarios and new attack plans against our national security have started to be implemented one by one.
The political and economic operations against our country have deepened and gained momentum every day.
As the elections approached, a number of developments affecting economic and political dynamics took place, putting Turkey in a situation where it could be exposed to high risks and threats.
At a time when internal and external threats have intensified, there is an urgent need for the immediate implementation of the Presidential Government System and the establishment of a strong executive that takes quick decisions.
All these developments have made it necessary to reconsider the election date.
Based on these reasons, our President Devlet Bahçeli called for early elections at the GNAT Group Meeting on April 17, 2018 and held a meeting with President Recep Tayyip Erdoğan the following day.
During the meeting, in order to complete the transition to the new government system and to eliminate all risks as soon as possible, the two leaders agreed that the elections scheduled for November 3, 2019 will be held earlier.
At the press conference held by the President after the meeting, the two leaders agreed on June 24, 2018 as the date for the parliamentary and presidential elections.
This decision has spoiled the game of Turkey's enemies and led to an extraordinary movement in politics.
The enemies of Turkey and their direct or indirect supporters, FETÖ, PKK, ISIS and other terrorist elements have taken a common stance against the People's Alliance, which has reconciled on Turkey's national unity, and they have been forced to reveal the evil front they have been building in secret since 2015.
Pennsylvania-led internal and external discord nests, which took sides against the People's Alliance, tried to set up new games, and so-called democrats who despaired of democracy attempted immoral bargains.
The importance of holding elections as soon as possible has also been understood in order to eliminate the evil centers that have put in place insidious plans to come to power, even at the cost of causing serious damage to our country, and to cleanse politics from this rotten mentality.
2) Goals and Objectives of the People's Alliance
The July 15th treacherous coup attempt and its aftermath have imposed obligations on the institution of politics that cannot be postponed or delayed.
These obligations necessitated the existence and continuity of a swift, fast, efficient and strong administrative structure in the state administration.
In order for Turkey to overcome the obstacles in front of it and to join forces against its adversaries, it has become imperative for national forces to be united and act with national consensus.
The way to implement the Presidential Government System as soon as possible is to form a political alliance around this unity.
The People's Alliance was born with such an ethic of responsibility; the spirit of national unity symbolized by the Yenikapı Rally has been the fundamental basis of the People's Alliance.
The People's Alliance, which is the work of the Turkish nation, a product of moral and political compromise based on national survival, is the rise of Turkish nationalism, the herald of the Turkish seal to be put on the world, the honor of national independence, the spirit of defending national future and the "National Mind".
The People's Alliance is the will to achieve the goal of "rising above the level of contemporary civilization" set by Gazi Mustafa Kemal ATATÜRK, the founder of our state, and the ideal of keeping the Turkish state and the Turkish nation alive forever.
People's Alliance; Turkey is free,
democratic
and the determination to secure a prosperous future,
It is the name of the national reaction of the Turkish nation against traitors, collaborators and global powers that are Turkey's enemies.
The development of our country, the welfare of our nation
and peace of mind.
People's Alliance; democracy,
human rights
and the rule of law,
is the political window to reconciliation in national unity and brotherhood.
The historical reconciliation of the Turkish nation, the guarantee of our independence and future, is a blessed resurrection and ascension move.
The national spirit resurrected against betrayal and the enemies of Turkey will realize a strong administration that will carry Turkey forward with the election victory of the People's Alliance.
The People's Alliance will defend the survival and unity of the Republic of Turkey with determination, will and loyalty, and will secure the future of our country with the power it receives from the will of the nation.
As the People's Alliance, our goals are to establish and ensure all the legal, administrative and political infrastructure necessary for the full establishment of the Presidential Government System.
To take the necessary political, social, administrative and economic measures to prevent a betrayal similar to July 15th from happening again, and to continue the process of national and democratic solidarity that flourished in Yenikapı on August 7, 2016.
It is to prevent activities aimed at cornering Turkey in foreign policy, politics and the economy, and to eliminate all threats to the survival of the Turkish state and the Turkish nation.
To eradicate terrorist organizations, especially PKK, FETÖ and ISIS, and to
take all social and economic measures to increase the peace and prosperity of our nation.
To make the rule of law and justice prevail in every field, to create a just system that favors the just over the powerful.
Raising democratic standards,
to guarantee fundamental human rights and freedoms.
To strengthen social solidarity and reinforce brotherhood by developing a culture of reconciliation.
To make a strong, just, compassionate and humanitarian state that represents the values of the nation, at the service of the nation.
To ensure that the services provided by the state are accessible to every citizen in all parts of the country and at modern standards.
To establish clean politics, clean governance and a clean society by decisively and effectively combating moral pollution and corruption.
Based on a competitive market economy and free enterprise,
is to create an order in which resources are used rationally.
Technological development, efficiency,
stable growth
and to create a strong "production economy" based on providing employment.
To establish an industrialization policy that directs investments to areas that are based on high technology and produce high value-added goods and services.
To support the dynamism and entrepreneurial power of the private sector.
To implement economic and social policies in a harmonized manner in favor of the low and fixed income earners.
To become self-sufficient in agriculture, to adopt a production structure with high technology utilization capacity and high productivity, and to
increase the income and welfare level of our farmers.
Ensure a fair distribution of income,
unemployment
and to fight poverty.
Social protection programs are designed to ensure that needy, poor and orphaned citizens are not left hungry and exposed.
To improve the working conditions of employees and to provide them with a fair wage system.
Education for all,
To create a social order worthy of human dignity and honor, in which basic needs such as health and social security are fully met.
High employability,
educated
healthy,
qualified, having high morals and character,
To raise a youth who has assimilated Turkish culture and values and has a universal claim.
To prevent cultural and moral degeneration by strengthening national and spiritual values.
To make the environment habitable by continuously improving it.
To conduct a Turkey-centered and multifaceted foreign policy that takes into account Turkey's geostrategic position, has a say in the formulation of political, social and economic policies on a global scale, evaluates developments and problems within the framework of a realistic and national strategy.
To develop regional and global cooperation programs in line with Turkey's history, culture, underground and aboveground riches, human, military and economic capacity and geopolitical advantages.
To implement all the administrative, legal and political reforms that will make Turkey a "mighty state" and to
ensure human rights and freedoms to the greatest extent possible.
In 2023, the 100th anniversary of our Republic, Turkey will become a leader in its region and a great and effective power on a global scale, offering the peace and justice of the Turkish-Islamic civilization to the world and thus becoming a beacon of hope for oppressed nations.
The road to Greater Turkey passes through the People's Alliance.
The unity achieved with the People's Alliance will be maintained after the elections by preserving the same principles.
Because this decision to act together is not just a short-term electoral strategy, it is the name of a national attitude and a noble stance that will dominate a long period.
The coming period, when the Presidential Government System will come into force, will be a period in which the efficiency and quality of legislative activities will come to the fore.
We believe that our beloved nation, with the support it will give with its vast wisdom, will enable our Party to increase its guiding national attitude in politics and its effectiveness in the Turkish Grand National Assembly, and ensure that it has more say.
The path ahead for the People's Alliance is clear and Turkey's future is bright.
The Nationalist Movement Party aims to strengthen the understanding of the "free individual" by ensuring the establishment of individual rights in the broadest sense;
strong industry, strong economy,
with strong democracy
investment, production
and achieving a "prosperous society" by increasing employment;
together with national unity and integrity,
effective foreign policy,
the building of a "strong state" through the establishment of deterrent armed forces;
human rights at the global level,
justice
By emphasizing sustainable development, it envisions the realization of a more humane world.
As MHP, we see politics as a way of developing policies aimed at ensuring the peace and welfare of the nation, and for this purpose, we envisage that state services should be provided in accordance with the expectations of citizens and that its institutions and rules should be shaped according to this understanding.
In this framework, we determine our political, social and economic policies.
While the Presidential Government System requires a strong executive, it
also envisages an effective parliament.
In the new system, the Turkish Grand National Assembly will both oversee the executive's work and operations and use its legislative power to pass the laws that our country will need.
In this new process, as MHP, we will contribute to the governance of the country with the economic and social policies we have prepared for the solution of the problems of our citizens and the development of our country, and with the legislative activities we will carry out in accordance with them.
In this context; State and Governance Reform, which we have previously presented to our nation with our Party Program and election declarations,
Productive Economy Program,
Anti-Poverty Project,
Fight against Terrorism and National Unity Project,
Anti-Corruption, Ethics and Quality Establishment Project,
We will continue our legislative activities in line with our policies, especially our other policies, and we will strive to build a mighty Turkey with an understanding that combines our deep-rooted state tradition with contemporary developments.
In our view, all democratic institutions and rules of the state and social order required by the Presidential Government System, which Turkey needs to become a global power, must be established as soon as possible.
The Nationalist Movement Party, which is aware of how the developments around Turkey, which is at the center of conflicts, chaos and turmoil due to its geopolitical position, threatens the world and Turkey, which is located in the most strategic region of the world; In the past forty-nine years that it has been on the political scene, the Nationalist Movement Party has foreseen the developments that threaten Turkey and humanity in periods when no one could perceive them yet and has demonstrated its determined stance in line with national interests.
Today, MHP sees the fate that the global threat is dragging our country, our region and humanity to and develops national attitudes and policies against it.
The ideal of a world where the Turkish nation and all humanity can live in peace and happiness in a humane manner can only be realized through the realization of a new civilization project centered in Turkey.
If Turkey integrates its opportunities and capabilities with universal values and becomes an effective and powerful country on a global scale, it will be the main axis and center of attraction for the Turkish and Islamic world.
By protecting its national existence and historical mission, Turkey will be able to go beyond being a regional power and become a global playmaker with its riches, deep-rooted state experience and dignified stance.
In order to realize Turkey's goal of becoming a leading country, first of all, it must be ensured that all social segments have the determination and resolve to walk into the future together in a common understanding and solidarity on the axis of common values such as history, religion and culture.
A Turkey that has achieved economic growth, social development and national integration within political stability will become one of the major actors in the community of nations in political, military, economic and social terms.
We believe that the vision of "2023 Leading Country Turkey", which the Nationalist Movement brought to politics in the 1990s and presented to the public in 1999 as a project, and which was included in the Eighth Development Plan in 2000 and turned into a state policy, aiming to make Turkey a leading country in the world on the centenary of the founding of our Republic, will be realized with the Presidential Government System.
With the new system, Turkey will be able to have a voice at the global level and become a decisive political, economic and diplomatic power.
Turkey's armed forces will become one of the three most powerful and deterrent armies in the world;
education,
Health,
justice, law,
gender equality,
children's rights
sustainable development,
healthy environment
and will be at the top of the human development index based on universal norms such as living conditions for the disabled.
Turkey will contribute to science, technology and developments for the benefit of humanity.
High-tech "Made in Turkey" branded products will be present everywhere in the world and will be the most preferred products.
Turkey will effectively utilize the possibilities of space, become a decisive actor in the international energy market, and gain technological competitive advantage in many fields with the values it produces.
With Turkey becoming a leading country, Turkish will become one of the most widely learned and spoken languages in the world.
Undoubtedly, the social consensus that the Turkish nation will achieve on the axis of fundamental national and human values, national ideals and goals will make it possible for Turkey to reach a consensus on fundamental issues and facilitate the implementation of future plans and programs in cooperation.
1) Smart State and Public Administration
MHP attaches great importance to the establishment of a public administration structure that combines Turkey's deep-rooted state tradition with contemporary democratic values.
Adopting a public administration approach based on participation, accountability and transparency, our Party believes that an administration structure and functioning that observes fairness, efficiency, effectiveness and citizen satisfaction within the framework of the principles of democratic rule of law is essential.
We consider the restructuring of our state organization in accordance with the Presidential Government System to be among the priorities.
Within this framework, determining the functions of the state and distributing the duties among central, provincial and local governments,
We consider it necessary to reorganize the organizational structure in line with the services to be carried out by the state and to provide the appropriate human resources.
With the implementation of the Presidential Government System with all its elements, it will be possible to establish a "Smart State" based on a human-centered "servant state" understanding, where an institutional structure based on an effective sharing of duties, powers and responsibilities between state organs, technological and human capacity is established.
Within this framework, our Party aims to strengthen democratic legitimacy in public administration,
It will ensure that trust-breaking practices such as corruption and irregularities are prevented and confidence in the state is increased,
will strengthen the rule of law,
ensure more active participation of citizens and civil society organizations in the governance process
and believes that a comprehensive regulation is needed to enable a citizen-responsive public administration.
The fundamental principles of reform in this area should be based on the rule of law, establishment of justice,
enhancement of institutional capacity, effective human resources management, e-transformation, social innovation,
fight against corruption
and accountability.
We consider it necessary to reorganize the personnel regime to eliminate the confusion of status, wages and titles of public employees; to establish equal pay for work of equal value; and to base recruitment, advancement and promotion on objective criteria.
In our view, the establishment of a public administration in which citizens are satisfied and happy with the services they receive from public institutions, can easily control administrative actions and transactions, and have absolute confidence in the justice of the administration will also guarantee social peace.
2) Justice
For the MHP, justice is the guarantee of fundamental rights and freedoms and the foundation of the state.
Ensuring that our people live in a just and equitable social order and that the principle of the rule of law prevails,
securing fundamental rights and freedoms,
We believe that the rule of law should be superior to all elements of power, that the protection of the rightful, not the powerful, and the establishment of social harmony and peace through law are among the fundamental duties of the state.
The judiciary should be a structure that people can trust without hesitation and where the sense of justice is ingrained in minds and hearts.
The judiciary should be a structure that does not act under the guidance of political powers or certain individuals or groups, that does not let certain affiliations or political preferences override the sense of justice, and that always and under all circumstances defends the right.
The independent and impartial judiciary, which has been strengthened in the Presidential Government System based on strict separation of powers, will supervise the legislature and the executive at every stage and will guarantee the rights and laws of our citizens.
Taking measures to prevent the occurrence of crime, ensuring that the evidence and information regarding the crime is transferred to the courts in a healthy manner after the crime is committed, making arrangements for the courts to make independent, impartial, fast and correct decisions, and
The use of information technologies to make this process effective and the employment of well-trained judges and prosecutors constitute the basis of our justice policy.
The April 16 referendum and the new provisions on the judiciary in the constitutional amendments have led to a more democratic, fair, impartial and independent judiciary.
3) Fighting Corruption
Radical and permanent measures must be taken against corruption, which destroys social life, democratic regime and moral values, reduces public confidence in the state and destroys the social fabric, as well as wasting resources, deteriorating the investment environment and damaging our international reputation.
In addition to taking preventive measures, our anti-corruption policy is based on the understanding of bringing corruption to justice and holding it to account.
On the one hand, deterrent sanctions should be introduced by eliminating the factors that cause corruption, while on the other hand, those who lay their hands on orphans' rights should be brought to justice and punished as they deserve.
Turkish political and bureaucratic life should be characterized by principled, level-headed, transparent and clean governance; the public perception that corruption and irregularities are tantamount to "treason" should be made dominant; and an all-out fight against corruption should be waged by politics, bureaucracy, judiciary and civil society.
A culture of honesty should be established, rules of behavior that encourage honesty should be established, importance should be attached to instilling virtues such as honesty and responsibility in our people at all levels of education, and it should be ensured that the culture of honesty is adopted as a lifestyle.
An independent audit structure should ensure effectiveness in preventing corruption.
The understanding of the superiority of the public interest over personal interests should be adopted as a social value through various means, particularly education.
4) Economy
We envision increasing social welfare with a governance approach that puts people at the center of economic policies and observes the principles of equality, morality and justice.
Preventing monopolistic formations and unfair competition by operating the rules of the market economy and limiting the role of the public sector in the economy to guiding, regulatory and supervisory activities;
private sector dynamism and entrepreneurial power are supported
stable,
environmentally sensitive
and the realization of employment-friendly growth is the essence of our economic policy.
Integrating with the world economy in an open and competitive structure and becoming one of the leading determinants of regional and global developments; supporting the production of information as a requirement of the information age, realizing the most effective use of information by providing fast and easy access to information; technological development, innovation, productivity
and the creation of a production economy based on employment.
An industrial approach should be adopted to replace traditional export products with high value-added, R&D and technology-oriented diversified products, and to promote processed products instead of an approach based on raw material production.
Achieving and maintaining price stability is essential for realizing sustainable growth. To this end, we envisage a monetary and exchange rate policy that will reduce the debt stock and the current account deficit to levels that will not cause vulnerability in the economy.
While we accept the free exchange rate policy, in which exchange rates are determined according to market conditions, we believe that excessive fluctuations and speculative movements in exchange rates should be prevented in the short term.
The main objective of fiscal policy should be to improve the quality of public revenues and expenditures, including the realization of the country's macroeconomic objectives, and to reduce public deficits permanently.
Changing both our revenue and expenditure structure to realize our macroeconomic objectives is important for credibility.
Fairness and efficiency in the distribution of resources in the economy and efficiency in the production of public services must be ensured.
It has a strong technological and human infrastructure with low transaction costs, where all kinds of financial instruments can be issued to meet the needs of the real economy and finance growth,
An innovative, transparent and internationally standardized financial market structure that is effectively supervised, innovative, transparent and well-functioning should be established.
Care should be taken to preserve the national character of financial markets, particularly the banking sector.
In order for the financial system to fulfill its functions, legal arrangements should be made by taking into account the country's conditions and international standards, and effective functioning should be ensured by bringing the supervision and audit systems in line with international standards.
Reducing the foreign trade deficit, which is the main cause of the current account deficit in Turkey, is important both in terms of reducing Turkey's external financing needs and ensuring sustainable high growth.
Reducing the foreign trade deficit will be possible mainly by exporting high value-added goods, as well as domestically producing some of the goods we import heavily.
To achieve all this, a comprehensive strategy must be implemented.
It is important to create a predictable, stable and reliable environment for investment in all respects in legal norms, taxation and bureaucratic procedures, and to establish a fully institutionalized investment environment for domestic and foreign investors.
Overcoming the fundamental problems in the economy, using advanced technology, innovation, efficiency
and employment,
to establish a highly competitive production economy and
In order to strengthen the social fabric by increasing the welfare level of the society, it is a requirement of our economic policy as MHP to implement an independent and national "Producing Economy Program" that takes into account our country's own opportunities and conditions, natural and human resources.
In this framework, the priority objectives in the field of economy are as follows: Employment friendly,
to establish a sustainable growth environment,
Unemployment
and reduce poverty
and to make income distribution more equitable,
Bring inflation down permanently,
Establishing a highly competitive production economy by reducing the dependence of production and exports on imports,
Making the economy resilient to shocks and reducing vulnerability by reducing its dependence on external resources,
Reducing public and private sector debt stock to a sustainable level,
To increase the share of R&D and to popularize Turkish brands and patented products in the world.
To this end, we consider it necessary to take structural reform measures in seven key areas of the economy in order to achieve lasting economic stability and reduce vulnerabilities.
These are reforms to increase production and reduce import dependency,
Domestic savings and
reform of investment promotion,
Tax reform,
Spending reform,
Fair distribution of income and anti-poverty reform,
Agriculture and livestock reform,
Labor market and working life reforms.
Due to the fact that economic policies and practices are formulated and implemented under different ministries and undersecretariats, the economic administration should be restructured in order to solve the problems in decision-making, execution and coordination of operations and to eliminate the disorganization.
The restructuring of existing regulatory and supervisory economic boards or the establishment of new regulatory boards should be evaluated on the basis of the integrity of the administration, the principles of efficiency and independence in line with the regulatory and supervisory function without wasting resources.
5) Industrialization and SMEs
Mobilizing local resources and employing a qualified workforce,
using and producing advanced technology, developing original designs and brands,
that takes into account consumer health and preferences,
production in accordance with environmental norms,
An industry with international competitiveness that envisages technological innovation, adapts to the digital age, and realizes the transformation required for "Industry 4.0", which is becoming increasingly important today, in a healthy way.
In sectors with high growth, employment and export capacities, industrial investments that will reduce import dependency and mobilize domestic capabilities should be supported by focusing on the production of high value-added products.
A culture of R&D and innovation should be fostered, intermediate goods should be produced in Turkey, products and services with high technological value should be preferred, and effective mechanisms should be developed to provide support in the innovation process.
The main priorities in policy implementation for sectors should be to increase R&D support for areas such as aerospace, electronics, pharmaceuticals and medical devices, and to develop comprehensive, strategic and effective support mechanisms.
The competitiveness of domestic producers in traditional sectors should be increased, and
logistics facilities should be improved by taking advantage of our geopolitical position,
thereby increasing our competitive advantage in traditional sectors such as tourism and textiles, as well as in other areas.
The integration of the main and sub-industry should be strengthened, domestic contribution to design and production should be increased, and "brands" should be developed.
Breakthroughs should be made in the defense and aerospace, machinery manufacturing, chemical, electronics and software sectors, and integrated iron and steel plants should be established to overcome external dependency in this area.
The defense industry, which is of great importance for our country both in terms of security and economy, should be transformed into a structure capable of producing technology and integrated with other industries.
Investment banking should be supported to provide cheap and long-term resources for industrial investments that are based on advanced technology, have high export capacity and provide employment.
New qualified industrial zones should be established, existing zones should be utilized effectively and their infrastructure should be completed in a way to attract investors.
In order to determine policies and strategies in the field of industry and trade, Turkey's industry and trade digital map should be prepared by taking into account the existing industrial inventory and decision support systems based on these information systems should be developed.
6) Science, Technology and Communication
The essence of our science and technology policy is to attach importance to science, scientists, scientific thinking, innovation, technology production and the use of technology in production, to achieve industrialization by bringing production methods to a competitive level and to ensure transition to an information society.
The ability and capacity to produce science and technology should be increased, and this should be translated into development and social welfare.
A climate in which scientific thinking can flourish and be respected must be created, the dominance of reason and science in education and training must be ensured, starting from basic education, students and teachers must be given an inquisitive and investigative identity, and the capacity of researcher manpower must be increased.
By establishing a "National Innovation System", scientific and technological research should be transformed into production and social benefit through innovations and patents to be granted accordingly, and solutions for today's social, economic and political issues should be produced by giving importance to social innovation.
An infrastructure with high technological capacity in the field of information and communication technologies should be established.
Emphasis should be given to the training of manpower trained in information technologies, and the "Informatics Valley Project" should be realized and areas with ready infrastructure should be allocated for companies operating in the sector.
A "Center for Artificial Intelligence Studies" should be established in order to catch up with the developments in artificial intelligence technology and to be included in the great competition among developed countries in this field.
7) Energy and Natural Resources
MHP has prepared a long-term energy strategy taking into account that energy has political, diplomatic, environmental and humanitarian dimensions in addition to its economic dimension.
Our Party's national energy policy is to ensure energy supply and security while minimizing foreign dependence, increasing energy efficiency and the share of national resources,
It is based on the principles of ensuring that energy is environmentally and human friendly at both the production and consumption stages.
In this framework, the main objectives of our energy policy are as follows:Maximizing the utilization of coal and renewable energy resources in order to reduce external dependence on energy raw materials
Increasing supply security by ensuring diversity of sources and source countries in energy imports,
Rapid completion of nuclear power plant projects,
Realization of uninterrupted and sufficient energy supply through effective demand management,
Generating energy without harming the environment and human health with an environmentally friendly and sensitive approach based on advanced waste control and disposal, basin and resource planning;
Supporting energy efficiency with strong and diversified financial instruments in all areas from production to consumption;
Achieving the competence to produce new energy technologies;
Ending practices restricting competition in the energy sector.
Along with public energy investments, a favorable environment should be created for domestic and foreign private capital investments in the energy sector.
In addition to conventional oil and natural gas, exploration of bituminous shale, gas hydrate, shallow biogenic gas, coal gas and especially shale gas should be accelerated through bilateral cooperation, and exploration and drilling activities should be carried out in Central Asian Turkic Republics and countries such as Libya, Algeria and Iraq through national oil and gas companies.
Energy diplomacy should be developed, bilateral agreements should be signed with the Turkic republics, especially Azerbaijan and Turkmenistan, which have rich energy resources, bilateral agreements should be signed with the Turkic republics, and leadership should be provided for these countries to reach agreements among themselves, a "Turkic Energy Trade Union" should be established in this context, and this union, which started in the energy field, should be ensured to be a model for other areas of the economy.
Turkey should take an active role in the energy competition in the Eastern Mediterranean Basin and utilize its geopolitical advantage through undersea natural gas pipeline and LNG terminal projects.
The Greek Cypriot Administration of Southern Cyprus and the EU should be prevented from conducting exploration and drilling activities in the region in violation of international law and our national interests, and the TRNC should be ensured to benefit from the resources of the region.
A high level of reserves should be established against extraordinary situations and seasonal fluctuations.
Renewable energy should be expanded and its share in energy production should be increased.
In addition to our known mineral reserves, new reserves should be found and exports of processed minerals should be increased.
Water management policy should be based on the evaluation of international policies in the light of our national interests and social realities and the implementation of a sustainable water policy.
8) Transportation
Our transportation policies are based on the establishment of a transportation system that will support economic and social development, safeguard national interests, meet the demands of the security system, increase the welfare level of citizens and ensure the satisfaction of users.
A widespread, fast, safe and cheap transportation system should be established by improving the transportation infrastructure, and a modern transportation network should be established in line with the needs of both the economy and society.
It should be ensured that the transportation system is fast, safe, uses advanced technology, is environmentally sensitive, establishes competition, integrates with international transportation corridors, is widespread and bearable in cost, and guides the industry.
Turkey, which is located on international transportation and energy corridors, should become a "regional logistics hub" by improving its logistics and transportation infrastructure.
Importance should be given to the complementarity of transportation subsystems, priority should be given to projects that will develop maritime-road and maritime-railway combined transportation, and railroad-road combined transportation systems should be evaluated in cases where maritime transportation is not possible.
In order to eliminate the imbalance between transportation modes, the physical infrastructure of railways and maritime routes should be improved and the railroad and road connections of ports should be strengthened.
The revival of the historic Silk Road with a railroad connection from China to Europe will provide Turkey with political as well as economic advantage.
In this context, the Turkish connections of this project should be realized immediately and cooperation with the relevant countries should be developed.
9) Agriculture, Livestock and Rural Development
The agricultural sector should be restored to a holistic structure with its production, processing and marketing dimensions, and should be brought to a level where it can produce high productivity and quality products, use technology, feed the people of the country and have a high export capacity.
Modern changes and transformations will be realized in the agricultural sector thanks to an organized and highly competitive agricultural structure that considers the balanced use of natural resources and makes a sustainable contribution to growth.
"Agricultural Cities", which are rural attraction units where agriculture-industry integration is ensured to support participatory development, should be established in order to direct investment and technology to rural areas by creating a basic agricultural structuring based on diversification of agricultural products, increasing yield and quality, providing added value and employment by on-site processing, and marketing them as brands.
Supervision in grain, tobacco, meat, sugar and milk markets should be activated, food safety and reliability should be brought to modern norms, and consumer protection and awareness should be ensured.
The misuse of agricultural land should be prevented.
Production of seeds, seedlings and saplings with high yield and quality suitable for the conditions of our country should be supported and foreign dependency should be ended.
Agricultural products and finished products should be analyzed in accredited laboratories to protect consumer health, and importance should be given to the protection and development of genetically intact products, including seed production.
Agricultural producers should be provided with the shortest chain to reach the market, ensuring that producers earn more and consumers consume cheaper food.
Agricultural subsidies should be determined and implemented with an understanding that increases producer welfare, reduces input costs, observes the balance between production cost and product price, and increases productivity in production.
Futures exchanges, which are an important tool in ensuring price stability in agricultural products, should be activated, product exchanges should be developed and the use of licensed warehouses should be expanded.
Special support programs and a price guarantee system should be introduced for products of strategic importance for our country such as wheat, corn, cotton, soybean, sunflower, hazelnut, grape, fig, apricot, olive, peanut and energy crops.
Animal husbandry should be supported, animal breeding, production of quality feed and fodder crops should be increased, animal diseases and pests should be effectively combated, fattening should be developed in order to increase meat products.
Forests should be managed and protected by taking into account multi-purpose utilization, continuity, participation, biodiversity, specialization, effective protection of water and wildlife and ecosystems, and forest villagers should be supported.
In order to increase the welfare level of our people living in rural areas, village development plans should be made within the scope of rural development projects, and our villages with high development tendency should be ensured to become "centers of attraction".
10) Regional Development
The realization of a development model in which all citizens benefit fairly from the blessings of the modern world and the elimination of development disparities between regions by raising the welfare level of our people living in underdeveloped regions constitute the basis of our regional development policy.
By mobilizing the potential of our country and ensuring regional development, the compassion of the state will be felt by citizens in the remotest corners of the country.
Where no one is left hungry or in need,
where justice is administered,
where everyone produces and shares according to their contribution,
peace and security are fully ensured
and national unity is the basis of our regional development policy.
To this end, target sectors should be identified for each province and district.
Especially for small-scale provinces and districts, target sub-sectors should be identified concretely based on the principle of "one province/district one sector" and support should be given to projects to be implemented in cooperation between the state and the nation.
Medium-sized provinces with potential in the fields of industry and services should be identified, and migration from rural areas to big cities should be kept in these centers to provide on-site employment.
Universities in underdeveloped regions should contribute to the economic and social development of the regions where they are located, and effective cooperation between entrepreneurs and universities should be developed.
11) Tradesmen and Artisans
The tradesmen and artisans, which constitute the basis of the economy and social structure, will be strengthened and their activities will be dynamized.
Preventing monopolistic formations by ensuring competition in the economy,
job creation,
redressing income inequalities,
bringing new entrepreneurs into the economy,
preservation of social peace,
eliminating imbalances between regions
and the activities of tradesmen and artisans will be supported in order to mobilize local potential.
To this end, it will also increase employment
credit, tax, premium and similar incentives should be provided.
The opening of branches in the city center by shopping malls and big market chains, which put our artisans and craftsmen in danger of extinction, should be regulated in a way that does not disrupt fair competition conditions.
In addition, municipality management, which creates unfair competition conditions and leaves no business opportunities for small tradesmen, should be reorganized.
In order for tradesmen and artisans to benefit effectively from KOSGEB loans and supports, programs specific to tradesmen and artisans should be implemented.
Tradesmen who drive trucks, buses, minibuses, taxis and shuttle services should be supported by differentiating the tax on the vehicles they buy and the fuel they use, competition should be ensured, and tradesmen should also be given an actual service increase.
12) Fighting Unemployment and Poverty
The basis of the fight against unemployment is the realization of employment-oriented sustainable growth, increasing the level of employability
and the establishment of an entrepreneur-oriented market.
By establishing a stable economic growth and a strong production economy; producing,
creating jobs
and ensuring that all those involved in this process receive a fair share of the value produced, in proportion to their contribution,
A social welfare system should be established that ensures that the needy, who do not take part in the production process, are supported and lifted out of poverty through social protection programs.
The essence of our social welfare policy is to permanently lift poor people out of poverty, to ensure that no citizen is left below the poverty line, and to improve the quality of life of citizens by raising the welfare level of society.
With the implementation of an economic program based on full employment, in which all factors of production that Turkey possesses will be effectively and efficiently included in the production process at the highest level, investment and production will be transformed from a rent economy.
and transition to a production economy that envisages a continuous increase in employment.
Turkish entrepreneurship, which produces goods and services based on brand, quality and technology, creates value-added and operates with high productivity, is the locomotive of the employment-oriented growth strategy.
A favorable investment climate should be created in which private enterprise can make long-term investment decisions, and small and medium-sized enterprises should be supported.
Employment-friendly investments should be emphasized, domestic input use should be supported and import dependency should be reduced.
Foreign capital and domestic investments should be directed to employment-enhancing areas.
A strong link between the education system and the labor market should be established to ensure the training of manpower in the quality and quantity required by enterprises.
Turkey's future employment needs should be evaluated on the basis of quality and quantity, an employment-education relationship should be established, and an education planning should be made in accordance with this need that Turkey can foresee.
Vocational training programs should be expanded to support the participation of disadvantaged groups in the labor market and enable them to find jobs.
13) Social Protection and Social Security
Our Party believes that the way to keep the state alive is to keep people alive, that the value of countries increases with the value they give to their people, and that in order to look to the future with confidence, it is necessary to ensure that retired and elderly people live a dignified life.
Policies for the elderly should also cover their youth and active working years, which prepare them for old age.
No elderly person should be left hungry, destitute and in need, or condemned to loneliness.
Legal, physical and other conditions should be created to ensure that people with disabilities are integrated into society and can live their lives without needing the help of others.
For a barrier-free Turkey, a barrier-free society and a barrier-free future, the sense of responsibility, empathy culture, solidarity and solidarity must be kept alive and active.
We consider it necessary to implement policies and related legal arrangements in which the financial problems of our disabled citizens are solved, barrier-free living conditions are created, they are empowered by benefiting from education and rehabilitation rights, their care and social security rights are guaranteed by the state.
It must be ensured that social compensation payments to veterans and families of martyrs are at a level that allows them to lead a dignified life.
Social policies should be put in place to protect and care for the sick, disabled and poor elderly and to increase their joy of living and protect their quality of life.
In order for citizens to be sure of their future and to live a high standard life, a social insurance system in modern norms that operates on the basis of blessing and burden should be established to cover the entire population and deficiencies in this regard should be eliminated.
14) Working Life
Our policy on labor life is based on the creation of a labor market in which decent work opportunities are offered to all segments of society, the quality of the labor force is raised and used effectively, and occupational health and safety conditions are improved.
Working life should be organized within the framework of policies that take into account the protection of work as well as the balanced protection of the rights of workers and employers.
Trade union rights must be brought in line with modern norms.
The definitions of civil servants, workers and other public servants should be redefined to ensure that employees other than narrowed civil servants are provided with modern union rights.
Registration should be encouraged by eliminating uninsured work and employment and other factors that lead to unregistered employment.
A wage system based on merit and success should be established to eliminate the wage imbalance among public sector employees.
Multiple consultation mechanisms in labor life should be strengthened and effective participation of the parties should be ensured in order to solve problems in labor life and establish labor peace.
In order to ensure occupational health and safety in contemporary norms, all kinds of technical, legal and administrative measures should be taken and inspections should be made more effective.
15) Women, Children and Family
The institution of the family is of great importance in protecting, sustaining and transmitting national and spiritual values to future generations and in strengthening national unity and solidarity.
The family, which is the cornerstone of Turkish society, must be protected against negative developments caused by economic and social developments.
The institution of the family, particularly the position of women in the family, must be strengthened and
policies must be developed to protect the cohesion and integrity of the family.
Factors that weaken the family and its social functions must be eliminated.
Women should have equal opportunities in many areas such as economic rights, justice, health and education.
As MHP, we believe that happy women will be the guarantee of a peaceful Turkey.
Schooling of our girls and their continued education and vocational training;
We consider it necessary to develop effective policies to increase employment opportunities so that they can have a job.
The Nationalist Movement Party envisages the development of effective policies and the necessary legal arrangements to solve problems with a modern approach in which equal opportunities are offered to women and men, respect for women is at the forefront, and equal support is provided to both women and men.
The Nationalist Movement Party aims to establish a national policy in which the best interest of the child is adopted as a fundamental principle and secured by the state in every respect, aiming at the health and well-being of our children and supporting their development and potential.
Children should be protected against all kinds of harmful publications in print, visual and internet media that contain violence, sexuality and abuse, and encourage substance abuse and smoking, and
families should be made aware of media literacy and the correct use of the internet.
16) Training and Human Resources
He has the pride and consciousness of belonging to the Turkish nation;
and internalized our spiritual and cultural values,
developed thinking, perception and problem solving skills;
high sense of responsibility and social sensitivity;
open to new developments, prone to science and technology production, entrepreneurial,
Democrat
Raising cultured, virtuous and faithful generations is the main objective of our education policy.
Our children should be provided with equal opportunities and opportunities in education and training regardless of their religious beliefs, ethnic origin and philosophical thoughts, and it should be essential that all members of society are educated in line with their interests, tendencies and talents.
Education policies should be based on a high civilization perspective.
The life and philosophy of leading figures such as Hoca Ahmet Yesevi, Hacı Bektaş-ı Veli, Mevlana, Hacı Bayram-ı Veli and Yunus Emre, who lived and kept alive the national and spiritual values of Turkishness and Islam, should be taught as elective courses in secondary education.
The knowledge and wisdom fermenting in Anatolia against spiritual and cultural degeneration must be passed on to younger generations.
A religious education that emphasizes Anatolian wisdom should be adopted to protect our children against deviant movements that are marketed under the guise of religion.
Young generations should be taught the Islamic tradition in the light of knowledge and reason, and radical groups should be prevented from directing our youth to terrorist organizations.
Curricula should be focused on teaching thinking and learning, accessing information, analyzing and processing information and transferring it to value processes, and raising individuals who are compatible with teamwork.
It should be essential that curricula at all levels of education are planned and implemented in accordance with national and contemporary requirements.
The education system should be structured in a way to ensure the training of manpower equipped with the knowledge and skills required by the information society, capable of competing internationally, and with an advanced technology culture; educational spaces, educational technologies and manpower opportunities should be raised to the standards required by the information society in terms of quality and quantity.
The age of pre-school education should be brought earlier and made widespread in order to develop a sense of national unity, strengthen moral and spiritual values and ensure socialization.
The level of education should be raised by ensuring that young people benefit from educational opportunities within the framework of equal opportunities.
Young people should be given the opportunity to continue higher education in the department of their choice within the framework of guidance in primary and secondary education and according to their abilities, and they should be prepared for the conditions of the age, economic and social life with the education they receive.
It should be essential to transform universities into educational institutions that train the manpower our country needs, produce science and technology through research, lead social development, find solutions to problems with scientific methods, and compete with world universities.
In addition to the traditional functions of universities such as education, research and development, and informing the society, it should be ensured that they have a structure that industrializes and commercializes knowledge.
Basic issues such as the curriculum and examination system should be stabilized at all levels of education.
17) Youth and Sports
Investing in youth is the most important investment for Turkey's future.
Our approach to youth problems is holistic in terms of economic, social, cultural and psychological aspects.
Sociologists, psychologists and social workers, as well as various other professionals, should be utilized in the diagnosis and solution of youth problems at the research, planning and implementation stages.
"Youth Centers" should be transformed into places where young people can spend their free time, discover their personal talents, benefit from various social and cultural opportunities and guidance services carried out with a scientific understanding.
A national sports policy should be implemented to improve the physical and mental health of youth.
Emphasizing virtues such as love, morality, discipline, perseverance and effort as well as success in sports and contribution to social cohesion,
Establishing the necessary physical, technological and manpower infrastructure to train athletes in every field and directing our children to sports as early as possible constitute the basis of our national sports policy.
18) Culture and Art
The correct and beautiful use of Turkish, which we see as an indispensable element of our national identity, should be essential.
Language is one of the basic elements that make a nation a nation.
Efforts should be made to use Turkish as a language of science, art, commerce and telecommunication at the international level.
Relations with Turkic states and communities should be based on "unity in language, thought and work".
In the face of different cultures, especially in order to prevent new generations from suffering from culture shock and identity crisis, studies should be carried out to ensure the introduction and adoption of national cultural values to the nation in order to produce quality and responsive works.
In order to prevent children from being influenced by foreign cultures through computer games, a "national computer games software industry" and a "national cartoon industry" should be promoted.
The development of visual, auditory, dramatic, practical and all branches of art and the expansion of their fields of activity should be ensured, and for this purpose, art and artists should be supported.
Traditional Turkish arts and folklore will be protected, developed and promoted.
The maintenance, repair and preservation of heirloom monuments, the protection and development of Turkish architecture, music, theater, cinema, literature and cuisine should be made a state policy.
19) Health
A health system that improves the quality of life and the joy of living, prolongs human life, is based on the satisfaction of citizens and service providers, and makes life meaningful and valuable must be established.
Health, which is an innate human right, should be guaranteed by the state without any discrimination between people.
All decision-making and enforcement mechanisms in health should be based on the participation, contribution and satisfaction of all relevant parties with an understanding that prioritizes preventive and preventive medicine.
Preventive health services and primary health care services should be provided free of charge by the state in accordance with the principles of equality and equity, in a manner that is easily accessible, usable and respectful of patient rights.
In order to ensure continuity and accessibility in health services, an employment and wage policy that will ensure a balanced distribution of health manpower throughout the country should be implemented.
Preventive health programs should be put in place to reduce the risk factors that cause the development of non-communicable diseases such as cardiovascular diseases, cancer, diabetes, chronic respiratory diseases, which are among the leading causes of death.
The technological infrastructure and manpower capabilities of hospitals should be improved and management capacity should be enhanced.
In order to make better use of patient beds, equipment and manpower capacity in hospitals, to meet patient demands on time and to minimize the waiting time for service, "full day-full capacity work" should be ensured and the personal rights of the personnel serving in this context should be improved.
Preventive health services should be expanded.
The fight against substance addiction should be activated and a separate unit should be opened in all psychiatry clinics for the treatment of substance addiction.
Better quality education, training and health services should be provided in medical faculties.
Our country should be turned into a center of attraction in terms of health tourism.
A holistic pharmaceutical and medical device strategy that prioritizes domestic production of pharmaceuticals, vaccines, serums and medical devices, creates a suitable R&D climate for this purpose, and supports production processes through public procurement policies and production incentives should be developed.
20) Urbanization and Housing
Our urbanization policy is to make settlements susceptible to disasters,
protecting and preserving natural, historical and cultural assets and contributing to the creation of an urban culture,
protection of water resources and the environment,
Building livable cities with planned, modern infrastructure,
ensuring local development,
facilitating access to services
and to improve the quality of life of citizens living in the city.
Education,
health, social work,
culture,
Provision of transportation and urban infrastructure services in a fast, safe, timely, cheap and accessible manner is a requirement of healthy urbanization along with other policies.
With a study that will cover the whole of Turkey, areas that are not suitable for development, such as fault lines, stream beds, coastlines, agricultural areas and natural structures, should be identified and closed to settlement, and the infrastructure for orderly urbanization should be created by eliminating the confusion in site selection through the completion of upper-scale plans.
In order to create livable cities, industrial, technological and industrial zones, financial and commercial centers with the necessary infrastructure, as well as modern equipped residential areas with completed transportation infrastructure, should be established.
It should be ensured that the damages of natural disasters can be minimized by taking precautions in all legal, physical and humanitarian fields before the disaster.
21) Environment
Our environmental policy is based on ensuring everyone's right to live in a clean and healthy environment.
In this direction, instead of the development-environmental protection dilemma, environmental problems should be overcome with a sustainable development model that envisages rational protection, use and development, and policies that will ensure the transfer of a clean, natural and cultural values preserved, livable environment to future generations should be implemented.
In order to prevent pollution, destruction and extinction of natural, historical and cultural values, environmental issues should be approached from a perspective based on science and reason and not in conflict with our history, culture, beliefs and national interests; human health, ecological balance, cultural, historical and aesthetic values should be protected by ensuring harmony between economic and social policies and environmental policy.
Environmental sensitivity should be given importance in the location selection of investment projects and environmentally friendly technology should be used in investments.
22) Tourism
A tourism framework law, including amendments to the Tourism Incentive Law, Labor Law, Coastal-Border Law and other laws related to the sector, should be enacted urgently in order to eliminate the rambling in the tourism sector and solve structural problems.
A new Tourism Strategy Document and Tourism Action Plan should be prepared and implemented in cooperation with the public and private sectors.
Incentives and support for investors who will develop alternative tourism products should be increased in our country, sub-regulatory legislation should be rapidly implemented in this context, and Turkish tourism should gain momentum and make a leap compared to its peers.
The natural, historical, cultural and other riches of our country should be utilized in a way to create high added value with an understanding that is sensitive to the environment, respectful to history, preserves its authenticity and ensures its sustainability, and the development of cultural tourism should be ensured by emphasizing the promotion of historical and cultural assets, which are the most important feature that distinguishes our country from other countries.
In order to properly utilize the rich tourism potential of our country, promotion and marketing should be made more effective and the potential should be utilized in all seasons.
23) Foreign Policy
a) Our Basic Principles and Principles
The essence of our foreign policy is to ensure and maintain peace and stability in our region and the world, and
to promote and develop international cooperation, mutual respect and friendship.
Our Party adopts the independence, territorial integrity and non-interference in the internal affairs of other states as a fundamental principle in international relations and expects an attitude in line with this principle from other states.
To protect and enhance Turkey's national security and national interests;
to create a belt of peace, tranquility, stability and security around us;
The essence of our foreign policy is to establish long-term friendly relations based on mutual respect and interest with all countries, especially our neighbors, and to find fair and lasting solutions to existing problems within the framework of international law by protecting Turkey's rights and interests.
We consider it necessary to pursue a deterrent, multifaceted and multidimensional foreign policy focused on international cooperation.
In foreign policy, we must act with the seriousness, style and understanding of a state and pursue a policy that will ensure that Turkey becomes a strong, respected, respected, listened to country in world politics and international relations, a country whose friendship is sought and whose friendship is trusted.
Establishing and advancing friendly relations with all countries, especially our neighbors, and encouraging all forms of regional cooperation of an international nature,
promote the peaceful settlement of disputes as an effective member of multilateral international organizations,
Contributing to peace, stability, security and common prosperity at the regional and global level is among the priorities of our cooperation-oriented foreign policy.
Given the changing and complex nature of international relations, the United Nations system needs to be reformed in order to find lasting and comprehensive solutions to global problems such as terrorism, illegal migration, smuggling and climate change.
In this context, our Party advocates that Turkey should become a permanent member of the UN Security Council and assume a greater role in the name of international security and peace.
In order to become an international actor with global influence and prestige, an effective and active foreign policy that takes into account the geographical, strategic and geopolitical position of our country, including contributions to regional and international peace, should be pursued.
One of the most important elements of the Nationalist Movement's "Leader Country Turkey" ideal is Turkey's ability to pursue an independent, effective and result-oriented foreign policy.
In this context, deterrent policies should be implemented against countries that carry their historical enmity against Turkey into the present and target Turkey's national interests, within the framework of international law and legitimacy.
All political, economic and, if necessary, military means should be used without hesitation to deter foreign policy. Turkey's hard and soft power resources should be utilized together to prevent hostile attempts against Turkey.
b) Multilateral and Multidimensional Foreign Policy
The common history and cultural values that Turkey shares with countries in a vast geography stretching from the Balkans to the Caucasus, from the Middle East to Central Asia, and the
democratic values that form the basis of our relations with the Western world, which has a long history, constitute a very important strategic accumulation for our country.
Based on this fact, Turkey's national power resources should be mobilized, a rational, decisive, consistent, realistic, dynamic and multifaceted foreign policy should be pursued, and our traditional diplomatic relations should be diversified and strengthened through public diplomacy and parliamentary diplomacy.
Our relations with the United States should be based on equality and reciprocity, with economic, political and security dimensions that serve the mutual interests of both sides.
It should be ensured that the United States, as a NATO ally, pursues policies in line with Turkey's interests and in accordance with the fact that Turkey-US relations are not only bilateral but also critical for the peace and stability of the Euro-Atlantic region and even the world.
Turkey, which is at the center of Eurasian geopolitics, the strategic focus of the 21st century, should pursue multifaceted and long-term policies to develop relations and joint economic projects with the Black Sea and Caspian basin countries, especially Russia and Iran, aiming at peace, stability and regional cooperation.
We should participate more in the activities of regional organizations such as the Organization of the Black Sea Economic Cooperation and the Shanghai Cooperation Organization, and Turkey's weight and influence should be raised to the level we deserve.
Our Party does not see relations with the European Union as a "question of identity and destiny" for Turkey.
It argues that Turkey is not obliged, condemned and needy to be dragged into the orbit of the European Union at any cost.
On the contrary, he believes that the EU, which is bleeding after the Brexit vote, is increasingly in need of Turkey's support in the face of global competitors such as Russia, China and the US, and transnational challenges such as international terrorism, smuggling and migration.
The respect that the countries of the European Union and the EU as a whole will show to our national interests, expectations, sensitivities and needs will be the fundamental criteria that will shape the future of our relations with these countries and the EU.
Our party believes that the European Union is a threat to Turkey's national unity and integrity;
terror and separatism;
Cyprus,
Greece
and Armenia
Turkey supports the continuation of the accession negotiations, provided that its approach to these issues is not detrimental to Turkey's interests.
However, the continuation of negotiations should in no way be a basis for the EU to exert political or economic pressure on Turkey.
The creation of relations with the countries of Africa, the Far East and South East Asia is of particular importance.
Turkey should play a more active role in the Silk Road project from China to Europe, and Turkey's geopolitical and geoeconomic importance in the Eurasian region should be reinforced.
In accordance with its geographical location and historical past, Turkey should be at the center of the energy, trade and transportation route between East and West.
The Middle East region, the cradle of civilizations, is looking for the peaceful and prosperous days that the Ottoman Empire, the pinnacle of Turkish-Islamic civilization, provided for centuries.
The region, where blood and tears do not stop, has turned into a geography where global actors fight each other by proxy.
Our party believes that regional problems, particularly in the Middle East, cannot be solved without Turkey's contribution and initiative.
Our Iraq policy is based on preserving the territorial integrity of Iraq, protecting the rights of the Turkmen presence in Iraq and ensuring that Iraqi territory does not pose a security threat to Turkey.
In the face of actual terrorist threats and attacks against our country from outside our borders, Turkey's rights arising from international law should continue to be used decisively to eliminate the terrorist elements nesting here, and all necessary measures should be taken for our national security.
Following the civil war in Syria, the country's peace and stability, social and economic development, ensuring security on our southern borders, and preventing the reconstruction of terrorist structures in the region
Guaranteeing the rights and freedoms of the Turkish presence in Syria is considered a matter of national survival for our Party.
As a matter of fact, our party strongly supported the Euphrates Shield and Olive Branch operations, which resulted in a historic victory.
c) Turkic World
The Turkic world is the priority and privileged area of interest of our foreign policy.
In addition to our citizens living outside Turkey, the development and deepening of relations with Cyprus, the Caucasus, the Balkans, the Middle East and Central Asia, where our compatriots live, in all fields, especially economic, social, political and cultural, should be one of the fundamental elements of our foreign policy.
Within the framework of international law and the principles guiding inter-state relations, the cognates and kin communities outside Turkey should be dealt with closely and the necessary institutional cooperation structures should be established first.
Turkey will make use of the opportunities offered by being at the center of Eurasian geopolitics with a strategic vision and will be able to implement political, economic and cultural cooperation projects to ensure and maintain peace and stability in the countries of the region.
Turkey's contributions to the Turkic Council and related organizations should be increased by strengthening relations with them.
Cyprus is Turkey's most important national cause.
Turkey has indispensable and non-negotiable treaty rights and obligations on Cyprus arising from the founding treaties.
Under no circumstances should Turkey's effective and de facto guarantee be diluted or negatively affected.
Our Party believes that the only realistic, viable and viable solution in Cyprus must be based on a bi-zonal, bi-national and bi-state partnership.
In order to establish such a structure, diplomatic negotiations with the Greek Cypriot administration under UN auspices should be supported, provided that the rights of Turkey and the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus are protected and our national interests are not harmed.
Attempts by the Greek Cypriot side to block the solution in Cyprus should not be allowed and no opportunity should be given to the Greek Cypriot side to use non-solution as a weapon against the TRNC and Turkey.
24) Security and Defense
a) Establishment of Public Order
An environment of social peace and trust must be ensured throughout our country.
The state must use its legal authority in a protective and compassionate manner to protect its citizens and create an environment in which they feel safe and secure.
The establishment of authority outside the state authority in any area of our country must not be tolerated or allowed.
Factors that pave the way for disorder should be eliminated and intelligence services should be activated to prevent crime before it turns into an attempt.
Security problems arising from unhealthy structures and urbanization caused by migration must be eliminated.
In addition to the high economic cost of having a significant number of asylum seekers in Turkey, Turkey also faces significant social problems such as theft, robbery, rioting, begging, spread of epidemics, drug use, prostitution, child marriage, illegal labor, etc.
On the one hand, this situation has resulted in asylum-seekers, especially women and children, having to live in unhealthy conditions, and on the other hand, it has negatively affected the economic, social and psychological lives of the Turkish people.
Policies should be put in place both to alleviate the hardships suffered by asylum seekers and to rapidly repair this socially destructive structure.
b) Fight against Terrorism
We see the understanding that adopts terrorism and violence as a method and considers them legitimate to achieve its goals as a serious threat to the survival of the Republic of Turkey, the peace and security of our nation and humanity.
Recognizing terrorism as the greatest threat to the security of life and property of our people, our national unity, our democracy and our economic development, our Party considers the fight against terrorism as a national policy that must not be neglected under any circumstances.
In this context, effective, result-oriented and multidimensional policies must be pursued without compromise to rid our country of the scourge of terrorism.
A long-term and stable national and effective counter-terrorism policy, free from daily political concerns, should be developed and implemented.
The fight against terrorism should be treated as a "total fight".
In the fight against terrorism, the unjust must be distinguished from the just, the innocent from the guilty, and the fight must be carried out decisively with the methods of the rule of law.
In addition to the struggle carried out by the security services, it should be based on the elimination of economic, social, psychological, administrative, demographic and cultural factors that are exploited and therefore feed terrorism.
To this end, a comprehensive economic and social development program should be implemented with the necessary financial support and resources.
All individuals, institutions, organizations, groups, communities, congregations and similar elements that harbor, patronize, support, back, condone, openly or secretly cooperate with, provide all kinds of resources to, and sympathize with terrorism and terrorists must be brought to justice.
Effective measures should be taken against the international support of terrorism in terms of political, logistical and financial dimensions, and drug, fuel and human trafficking, which provide financial support to terrorism, should be effectively combated.
All means must be used to ensure effective deterrence against those elements that use the terror card as a means of threat against Turkey and provocations targeting our national unity.
The fight against terrorism on an international scale must be carried out within the framework of the rights provided by international law and the terrorism that threatens our country must be eliminated without leaving it to the initiative of any country.
Priority should be given to the completion of the establishment of a physical and technological border security system, particularly along the Iraqi and Syrian borders.
In the fight against terrorism, public information and enlightenment, psychological and sociocultural measures should be prioritized.
c) Defense Policy
Turkey's geostrategic position, its obligations arising from its historical and cultural heritage, and its role in the establishment of regional and world peace require the establishment and sustainability of a strong and deterrent defense system.
In order to ensure that the Turkish Armed Forces can successfully fulfill its mission in accordance with the conditions of the age, increase its mobility and enhance its deterrence, a military modernization program should be initiated to ensure that it becomes one of the most powerful armies in the world in terms of weapons, equipment and the ability to use advanced technology.
The Turkish Armed Forces' mobility should be increased by expanding the employment of personnel specialized in the use of advanced technology.
In military defense, a "new strategic security" approach should be adopted to protect our national interests beyond our borders with a preemptive approach that takes into account asymmetric, political and economic security approaches.
Instead of relying on international security partnerships and allied relations, a national defense structure based on our country's own dynamics and values should be taken as a basis.
Necessary incentives should be provided for the development of an independent and domestic war industry with a high export capacity by reducing the foreign dependence of the Turkish Armed Forces in terms of weapons and equipment, and for domestic entrepreneurs to invest more in the production of weapons and military equipment.
R&D studies and production of defense industry technologies such as material technologies, electronic warfare, aviation, space and satellite technologies, network-centric warfare, unmanned aerial vehicles, guidance and control technologies should be supported.
A "national software" system should be developed and implemented to ensure information security in the defense industry.
It should be ensured that defense expenditures are made primarily within the national procurement system and importance should be attached to the coordinated decision-making of the relevant units in determining the procurement needs.
The prestige of the Turkish army should not be allowed to be eroded in domestic and foreign public opinion through daily debates.
The combat structure of the Turkish Armed Forces should be restructured and modernized by further strengthening its manpower, technology and organization, and its regional and global deterrence capability should be increased.
In addition to specialization in the areas of training, organization and equipping in accordance with the mission definition, changes should be made with a focus on asymmetric threats.
A system based on professional military service should be adopted for missions requiring specific expertise and for missions against asymmetric threats, while other missions should be based on conscription.
In order to benefit from the possibilities of space in the field of defense and security, emphasis should be placed on aviation and space technologies, and an "Aviation and Space Authority" should be established.
In addition to the long-range missile system, efforts should be made to develop an anti-missile system.
1) Our Commitments Realized in the 26th Legislative Period
The issues that the Nationalist Movement Party committed to our nation in the November 1, 2015 elections were expressed by our MPs in every environment and at every opportunity during the 26th Legislative Period and brought to the agenda of the Grand National Assembly of Turkey.
Many of these commitments have been partially or fully realized.
In this context, our commitment to protect the first four articles of the constitution was fully realized in the constitutional amendments adopted by the April 16 referendum.
In the constitutional amendment, the first four articles of the constitution and the unitary national structure of our state at the center of these articles, as well as the provisions on "Turkishness", "Turkish", "Atatürk" and "Republic" have been strengthened and preserved in our constitution.
It is one of our most important commitments to our nation as a Party to rid our nation of the scourge of terrorism.
For this reason, MHP has openly and unequivocally supported the relentless fight against terrorist organizations such as PKK, PYD and ISIS, especially after July 20, 2015.
Thus, our commitment that separatist terrorism will be eradicated with all its elements and our citizens will be freed from the grip of the terrorist organization has found the opportunity to be implemented with our strong support to the government.
In addition, other promises of our Party regarding the fight against terrorism, such as utilizing technological means in the fight against terrorism, separating citizens from terrorists, and supporting the fight against terrorism with economic and social projects, have been fulfilled and started to be implemented.
Our clear stance in the fight against terrorism and our support to the government in this regard will continue, and Turkey will become a peaceful and safe country by completely eliminating terrorism.
As a matter of fact, many positive developments such as the appointment of trustees to municipalities patronizing the terrorist organization, the destruction of ditches set up in preparation for civil war, the reconstruction of settlements destroyed by terrorism, and a significant decrease in the number of terrorist acts and victims are the successes achieved by our state in the process of our support.
On July 15, 2016, we were confronted with one of the biggest betrayals in Turkish history.
FETO terrorists infiltrated into the Turkish Armed Forces rained bullets and bombs on our nation.
This invasion attempt by those who wanted to divide and fragment Turkey was prevented by our nation's defense of its state, democracy and national will.
With the realization of the treacherous coup attempt, MHP defended democracy and national will before anyone else and publicly declared that it stands by the state and the elected government.
The cleansing of FETÖ traitors, who have infiltrated the Turkish Armed Forces, the judiciary, education and health institutions, and all cells of the state, from state institutions has become Turkey's top priority.
The MHP supported the government's declaration of a state of emergency.
This is because it was assessed that it would be possible to combat the extraordinary situation encountered through the implementation of the "State of Emergency", which is a constitutional institution.
MHP has supported the fight against FETÖ at every stage, which has strengthened the fight against FETÖ and facilitated the achievement of effective results.
While Turkey is struggling against terrorist organizations, especially PKK and FETÖ, a terrorist state was wanted to be created on our southern borders, threatening Turkey's sovereignty and security.
The MHP has warned against the illegitimate structuring attempt in the north of Iraq and the canton organizations in Syria, and declared that it will provide the strongest support to the state in the fight against them.
Turkey first neutralized the illegitimate referendum in Iraq, and with the Euphrates Shield and Olive Branch Operations, this game was disrupted and the terrorist organization threatening Turkey's sovereignty rights, peace and security was eliminated.
During this period when Turkey had to fight against seven powers, MHP stood by the state and the government in foreign policy, especially in the fight against terrorism, and in the face of the attempts of Turkey's enemies to blockade Turkey economically.
There have also been realizations of our commitments in other areas.
From our commitments on economic and social issues; deductions that increase the prices of inputs used by the industry will be removed, transaction taxes such as fees and stamp taxes on companies will be reduced,
VAT will not be charged on machinery-equipment and equipment investments of SMEs, and BITT will not be charged on loans for machinery-equipment purchases,
Taxpayers who pay their taxes regularly will be rewarded,
Incentives and support for investments will be increased,
Tax and premium advantages will be provided to tradesmen who open new workplaces,
Social security support premium will not be deducted from the pensions of tradesmen and artisans,
No tax will be levied on commercial vehicles that drivers will buy for renewal,
Taxes on fertilizer and feed will be abolished,
Land disputes with the Treasury will be resolved and the 2/B problem will be solved in a fair and equitable manner,
Elimination of the problems arising from the application of the Ecrimisil,
The net minimum wage will be increased,
Subcontracted workers, 4/C workers, and temporary workers will be recruited,
Pensioners will receive a "Pensioner Support Allowance" twice a year,
Ensure that retirees can receive bank promotions,
65 years old pension will be increased,
Payments to military families will be increased,
Measures will be taken to prevent violence against women and child abuse and penalties will be aggravated,
Many of our commitments, such as the provision of personal weapons to specialist sergeants, were partially or fully realized during the 26th legislative term.
2) Our Main Commitments in the 27th Legislative Period
The Nationalist Movement Party will be strongly represented in the Turkish Grand National Assembly as a result of the June 24, 2018 Parliamentary General Elections.
All our work will be planned and implemented according to the principles and principles of the Presidential Government System and the People's Alliance.
During the five years following the June 24, 2018 elections, the support we have given, the responsibility we have assumed and the open attitude we have shown for the Presidential Government System to settle and take root with its institutions and rules will maintain its sincerity and continuity.
Our party protects the first four articles of the constitution, which regulate the basic qualities of the republic and the founding principles of the state, forever; that the constitution should include general protection provisions rather than general limitation provisions,
It envisages that it should be based on freedoms and be in the nature of a social contract.
The Nationalist Movement Party will fulfill its part in Turkey's systemic restructuring within democratic limits.
One of the most fundamental issues before us should be the fight against FETÖ.
Because the crypto vein of the FETÖ terrorist organization has not been cut.
This scourge must be removed from the agenda with a well-organized state mind and an effectively planned combat strategy.
Undoubtedly, in the struggle, the rule of law and the principles of justice must be respected and the guilty must be distinguished from the innocent.
In a period when trade wars have emerged and economic operations are triggered by exchange rates, interest rates and hot money, economic security must also be prioritized.
Turkey must encourage a production consciousness in every field, bearing in mind that dependency will lead to captivity.
At a time when global and regional alliances are fracturing and countries we consider allies are even cooperating with terrorist groups, it is a patriotic duty for all of us to ensure and advance national unity and solidarity at home.
We see the understanding that adopts terrorism and violence as a method and legitimizes them to achieve its goals as a serious threat to the survival of the Republic of Turkey, the peace and security of our nation and humanity.
Recognizing terrorism as the greatest threat to the security of life and property of our people, our national unity, our democracy and our economic development, our Party will continue to treat the fight against terrorism as a national policy that must not be neglected under any circumstances.
In this context, our support for the liberation of our country from the scourge of terrorism and the eradication of separatist terrorism with all its elements will continue without compromise.
As the Nationalist Movement Party, we see the fight against corruption as one of the fundamental elements of politics.
In this respect, we believe in the urgency of the necessary legal regulations that will actively introduce ethical rules into our daily lives against corruption and corruption in politics and public administration, non-governmental organizations, media and business world, sports and arts.
Thanks to the strong governance that the Presidential Government System will provide, welfare and development will accelerate, national income will increase, the
imbalance between income groups will decrease,
new factories that will increase employment will be opened with region and sector-based incentives, the
increase in exports will continue to accelerate, our dependence on foreign energy will decrease significantly, and the
localization rate in high-tech products will increase.
Turkey will take its place on the world stage as a global power in line with its goal of rising above the level of contemporary civilization.
In 2023, the centenary of the Republic, with an administrative system consisting of a hundred provinces and a thousand districts including metropolitan cities, a local and national resurgence in the economy, and a spirit of unity and solidarity in politics, Turkey will be elevated to the level of a superpower in its region and a country that is listened to globally.
In the 27th Legislative Period, with regard to the demands and expectations of various segments of society that can be met through legal regulations; - Rapid realization of structural reforms in areas that the economy needs,
- Freeing our citizens from the trap of poverty caused by the spiral of debt and high interest from consumer loans and credit cards,
- Tradesmen and
easing the tax and premium burden of farmers,
- Giving artisans and craftsmen the right to borrow for their past services,
- Reorganization of the shopping mall law in a way to protect the tradesmen, taking measures against shopping malls and chain markets that destroy the tradesmen, and reorganization of the municipality management that negatively affects the competitiveness of the tradesmen,
Counting internship and apprenticeship periods to pension service,
Providing tax-free fuel to our tradesmen engaged in freight and passenger transportation,
Giving the right of attrition share to driver tradesmen,
Elimination of taxes on diesel fuel used by farmers,
No VAT on electricity used in irrigation and agricultural enterprises; lower tax burden on inputs such as seeds, seedlings and pesticides,
No tax on the minimum wage, excluding wage earners' income equal to the minimum wage from taxation,
Improving the personal rights and working conditions of police employees, raising the additional indicator of our university graduates to 3600, paying overtime for their work over 40 hours a week,
Recruitment of all specialist sergeants and improvement of their financial and social rights,
Staffing of subcontracted workers, 4/B, deputy, contracted, honorary and temporary employees who cannot get staff in the public sector,
Reflecting all additional payments of public employees to their pensions,
Improving the personal rights of engineers,
Giving health workers the right to a share of attrition,
Transfer of those working in the auxiliary services to general administrative services,
Providing bachelor's degree completion opportunity for associate degree graduates,
Abolition of the university entrance exam
Increasing the pension for the disabled and relatives of the disabled and basing the payment of disability pension on their own income instead of family income,
Those who were disabled at birth or before entering the workforce will be eligible for disability benefits,
Improving the personal rights of army and police duty invalids,
Making a regulation to eliminate the grievances of veterans who are not considered disabled,
The honor pension paid to combat veterans should be paid in the same amount to all combat veterans, regardless of income,
Employment rights for all orphans of martyrs,
Increasing the salary of martyrs' mothers and fathers,
Providing second employment opportunities for our veterans and providing vehicles without SCT,
Increasing the additional indicator of teachers to 3600 and improving their working conditions,
Staffing to ensure the gradual appointment of all unassigned teachers,
A family support allowance of half the minimum wage for one unemployed person in each family,
Providing health insurance for the families of our unemployed youth,
Counting the period of military service to pension service without making contributions,
Eliminating inequalities in pensions and increasing the welfare share,
Eliminating the victimization of those in retirement age,
Giving women the right to birth borrowing for births before insurance,
Expanding the employment of allied health personnel in the public and private sectors to improve the quality of health services,
Efforts will be made to enact the necessary laws to prevent violence against women and child abuse, to aggravate penalties for crimes against women and children, to provide legal aid support, to abolish the statute of limitations for filing lawsuits.
With the exception of PKK members, FETÖ members and other terrorists, child abusers, rapists and murderers of women,
initiatives will be continued to grant amnesty to the victims of fate who dream of freedom behind bars, count the days in the dungeon, long for their loved ones and loved ones in the dama.
Solving mass migration to our country at its source and ensuring that those admitted to our country reside in areas bordering their country of origin,
ensuring that the distribution of asylum-seekers within the country is registered and carried out in designated locations, and that their food, drink, shelter and clothing are provided under healthy conditions,
We will continue our policy of rapidly reuniting asylum seekers with their homeland.
In our view, Turkey's ability to overcome the problems it faces and to stand up to global challenges will only be possible by strengthening the spirit of national unity and by turning towards the core values of our nation.
BUILDING A MIGHTY TURKEY
In Turkish political life, the strategic goal of the Nationalist Movement Party, which conducts politics within the framework of the principle of "My country and my nation first, then my party" and with an understanding of democratic responsibility culture, is the construction of "Leader Country Turkey".
The Nationalist Movement will continue to be the guarantee of the survival of Turkey and the Turkish nation in the future, as it has been since the day it appeared on the Turkish political scene.
Our Party, with its presence on the political scene, has helped to raise democratic standards in the past.
and contributed to the establishment of a culture of reconciliation,
will be the guarantor of the dignity of the political institution, democratic values and the rule of law in the future.
Our goal is to perceive and interpret the era in Turkish with a vision that is aware of the dynamics of Turkey and the world, and to build the "Global Power Turkey" of the future with the ideal of glorifying the nation and making the state eternal.
The realization of this ideal will be possible through the establishment of national unity and solidarity, and this can be ensured through a "nation" understanding built on common values and the past, and a common march towards the future.
The Turkish nation is the name of a nation that lives and carries the legacy of the Turkish-Islamic tradition and a glorious civilization from generation to generation and brings them together in the crucible of history and culture; Turkey is the name of the land that hosts this legacy.
The ability of the Turkish nation to move towards a common future will be directly proportional to highlighting the rich common values among the members of the nation.
Today, what Turkey needs most is the unification of the nation and the establishment of the law of brotherhood and sisterhood, and the national consensus and national excitement that will ensure a common march for the construction of a strong Turkey.
In our view, the fundamental dynamics of reconciliation between all segments and actors of society in Turkey are nationalism.
and democracy.
National and spiritual values,
contemporary democratic principles, the rule of law
and human rights-based rules, institutions and "style of governance" will be the unifying features of the new system of government.
With the 16 April 2017 referendum, the Presidential Government System, which was accepted by our beloved nation, has a compromise-oriented character and will make it possible to walk together into the future by ensuring social reconciliation upon its entry into force.
We consider the new government system as an opportunity for Turkey to rebuild in a new phase with its institutions and rules and to become a global power and a mighty state.
We believe that the Turkish nation has the historical experience and cultural depth,
It has the possibility and potential to create a great synthesis again by adding democratic universal gains.
Thanks to the Presidential Government System, a strong Turkey that is at peace with its national and historical values, capable of solving problems, developed, has established an effective state order and has a respected position in the community of states will have a say in world politics and economic life in the 21st century.
In such a Turkey, no development in its immediate or distant neighborhood will be able to threaten Turkey's security and peace of mind or ignore Turkey's rights.
Since the establishment of regional peace and security will be directly related to Turkey's national interests, no global or regional actor will be able to threaten peace and security despite Turkey.
Turkey-centered civilization project; raising democratic standards in the world,
increasing prosperity,
guaranteeing human rights and freedoms,
that justice prevails,
the establishment of peace and tranquility, the elimination of conflicts and tensions,
It will ensure that poverty is eradicated and that all humanity enjoys the virtues of a humane life.
The civilizational march to be initiated by the Turkish nation will find its spiritual roots in Turkish-Islamic sources, build its cultural foundations on our ancient values, and draw the energy it needs from the Turkish nation's ideals of growth, progress, leaping over the ages and carrying justice to the world.
Bu yürüyüş, öncelikle Türkiye’yi kendisine güvenen, kendi gücüyle ayakta duran, başı dik, karnı tok ve özgür bireylerin yaşadığı onurlu bir ülke hâline getirme yürüyüşü aynı zamanda küreselleşme olgusunun insani bir nitelik kazanmasını ve adaletli hale gelmesini hedefleyen insan merkezli bir yürüyüştür.
In a Turkey that has achieved these goals, political, social and economic stability will have been achieved, chronic problems will have been solved,
The political, social and cultural foundations of national unity will be strengthened, a national consciousness will be formed in the integrative nature of rich common values, and the millennia-old brotherhood law will be glorified.
Our long-term strategic goal is for Turkey to become a "Global Power and Leader Country" by 2053.
In order to achieve this goal, Turkey's natural and human resources as well as its economic, social and technological capabilities and opportunities must be mobilized and commitment must be demonstrated in the strongest way possible.
Turkey will become a decisive political, economic and diplomatic power with a global voice, and
its armed forces will become one of the three most powerful and deterrent armies in the world.
Education,
Health,
justice, law,
gender equality,
children's rights
sustainable development,
healthy environment
and universal norms such as living conditions for people with disabilities
will be at the top of the human development index.
It will contribute to science, technology and developments for the benefit of humanity.
High-tech "Made in Turkey" branded products will be available all over the world and will be the most preferred products.
In 2053, Turkey will effectively utilize the capabilities of space, become a decisive actor in the international energy market, and gain technological competitive advantage in many fields with the values it produces.
With Turkey becoming a leading country, Turkish will become one of the most widely learned and spoken languages in the world.
Turkey's population will exceed 100 million, employment will reach 50 million,
exports in nominal prices will reach 3.2 trillion dollars, Gross Domestic Product will reach 10 trillion dollars, and national income per capita will reach 100 thousand dollars.
Turkey will use its developed democratic structure, cultural heritage and ancient values to make globalization more humane.
Nowhere in the world do children die of hunger and disease, and no one is subjected to cruel behavior,
that fundamental human rights, in particular the right to life, are guaranteed,
based on the establishment of universal justice,
A new civilization centered on Turkey will be built.
Centuries of exploitation of oppressed nations,
democracy,
human rights
and the end of the tyranny perpetuated in the name of justice
will open a new era 600 years after the conquest of Istanbul with the civilization-building it will provide.
The future is the Turkish century, the power of the future is Turkey.
The future will witness the Turkish-Islamic societies tearing off their moldy shackles.
The Turkish-Islamic ideal will be the flagbearer of Turkey and neighboring geographies, and will put the seal of I'lâ-yı Kelimetullah on the world.
That is when the Red Red Crescent will find its answer, that is when it will achieve its goal.
