2018 ELECTION MANIFESTO
IT MUST CHANGE. IT WILL CHANGE. LET'S CHANGE...
Turkey today is in a deep crisis of democracy.
The crisis of democracy is the work of the 'Erdogan regime' that wants to melt the peoples of Turkey into a single mold and monopolize everything.
This is not the fate of WE.
Who imprisoned the whole country with the State of Emergency in order to stand up,
that has rendered parliament dysfunctional and set out to dismantle democratic politics,
This government, which has appointed trustees to almost a third of the country, has lost its democratic legitimacy.
It must change.
Those who think that they will continue on their way with a freak such as a 'partisan presidency' based on the results of the illegitimate referendum will hit a wall on June 24th.
We will give our answer to those who are dragging the country into the abyss at the ballot box on June 24th.
June 24, for the peoples,
women,
oppressing laborers,
It is time to change this power that plunders nature.
June 24 is the time to break the threshold with the HDP and carry hope into the future in order to establish the separation of powers, judicial independence, checks and balances, and a functional, pluralistic and democratic parliament in Turkey.
On June 24, those who seek to usurp the will and future of the peoples will go.
If we believe, it changes...
The June 24 elections were won by the forces of labor-democracy,
peoples,
women, young people,
farmers,
we will turn it into a victory for the tradesmen.
We will be much stronger in the parliament.
HDP is a party of Turkey.
Turkey will exist in parliament with the HDP.
The HDP will be able to transform the current crisis in the country in favor of the working people and the oppressed.
and the only party that can pave the way for Turkey's democratization.
HDP, with its laborers and oppressed,
women and youth,
It is the only party that will encompass the multi-identity, multi-cultural, multi-faith, multi-religious and multi-lingual structure of Turkey with its different religions and beliefs; the only party that can offer the peoples of the country a humane and dignified "new life".
HDP is the hope of all victimized segments of society with its determined struggle for democracy and peace.
HDP is "great humanity".
HDP derives its strength and legitimacy from the people of Turkey.
On June 24 - as they did on June 7 and November 1, 2015 - the peoples of Turkey will once again foil the plots of those who want to push the HDP out of parliament, and shame those who acquiesce and condone this effort.
As HDP, to our peoples,
to the laborers and the oppressed,
all peace
democracy
and the forces of freedom with great faith: Let's grow the struggle together.
Let's create a democratic alternative of the peoples.
Let's change this trend.
Be the voice of freedom.
Be the voice of peace.
Be the voice of all Turkey.
Let's change it!
BUILDING A NEW LIFE IS IN OUR HANDS
The AKP's "one-man regime" has undermined the separation of powers and democracy,
the quest for rights and freedom,
is an authoritarian regime that ignores women's freedom and equality.
HDP is clearly against "one man" authoritarianism.
It is also against the authoritarian understanding of the parliamentary system, expressed in the tutelary understanding of the past, which does not see peoples, identities and beliefs on an equal footing.
On June 24, either the 'one-man authoritarian regime' will be institutionalized or "great humanity" will win.
Libertarian secularism,
pluralism,
centered on the separation of powers
based on multilingual, multifaith, equal citizenship
democratic
The constitution will be drafted with the participation of all social groups in the country.
Freedom of thought, expression and association, freedom of religion and conscience, freedom of the press, gender freedom, the right to peace, the right to truth,
the right to form trade unions, the right to strike and collective bargaining,
right to social security, right to basic income, right to housing, right to disability,
the right to clean water and adequate food,
the right to conscientious objection,
the right to cultural identity, the right to use one's mother tongue,
the right to education and training,
right to information,
the right to a fair trial,
children's rights, elderly rights,
animal rights
The democratic Constitution will guarantee all freedoms and rights.
Democratic constitution,
the local against the domination of the center,
society against the domination of the state,
women against the domination of the male-dominated mentality,
labor against the domination of capital
and nature-based
will be based on local democracy.
Local democracy, the democratic decentralization model, does not contradict the unitary state structure and the democratic parliamentary system; on the contrary, it strengthens this system.
Local democracy will not only prevent local domination by the center, but
also ensure political stability and the democratic development of public life.
With the assurance given by the democratic constitution, local democratic administrations will be the guarantee of a democratic administrative structure throughout Turkey.
A Democratic Republic based on local democracy guaranteed by a democratic constitution, pluralism not monism, democracy not authoritarianism,
It will be the roof of coexistence, not segregation.
WE WILL SOLVE THE CURD PROBLEM AND BUILD A DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC
The only way for the peoples of Turkey to achieve peace, security and prosperity is to achieve lasting peace on the Kurdish issue.
The solution to the Kurdish question is the solution to the question of democracy.
Peace is not only the absence of conflict, death and suffering, but also the biggest step towards virtue, goodness and coexistence.
The struggle for peace is a struggle for democracy, a struggle for freedom.
For a free country, for a
democratic republic, for a
by local democracy, the
parliamentary system strengthened
strongest step to be taken to get rid of the monist understanding will be peace.
June 24 is the hope for a lasting and honorable peace.
In spite of those who try to maintain their power with war policies, the trustee mentality, those who displace people with blockades and demolitions, those who say peace will win.
June 24 is the beginning of the period in which we will govern ourselves, our city and our country in a Turkey where we can live together with our differences on the basis of equal citizenship.
where we exist with our mother tongues, our own identities and cultures, where plurality prevails over unity.
It is a new door to a 'Democratic Turkey'
The solution to the Kurdish question lies in the will of the ancient peoples to live together.
We will live together in our common homeland.
Democratic Republic
and we will create lasting peace together.
The most beautiful country is the country where there is justice.
COURTS WILL BE IMPARTIAL AND INDEPENDENT
The "one man regime" has turned Turkey into a country in search of justice.
After the July 20 State of Emergency civilian coup, the judiciary was completely politicized, the HSK and the courts came under the command of the government.
ECtHR judgments are no longer implemented by Turkey.
All opposition figures, including our MPs and co-mayors, are being held in prison under unfair judicial decisions.
Judges who rule against the political demands of the government are either dismissed or demoted.
We will remove all obstacles to freedom of thought, expression and organization.
We will lift the state of emergency.
All public workers unjustly and unlawfully dismissed by emergency decrees will return to their jobs.
Co-mayors who were appointed trustees under the State of Emergency will be reinstated.
All opposition media and civil society organizations shut down by emergency decrees will be reopened.
All appointments and exams involving favoritism and irregularities during the AKP era will be identified and justice will be done.
The July 15 coup attempt's political pillars will be exposed and legal action will be taken.
The structure of the HSK will be reorganized and transformed into an autonomous institution.
The Minister of Justice will be removed from the HSK structure.
Necessary legal arrangements will be made to ensure the independence, impartiality and democratization of the judiciary.
The prosecution and defense will be made equal in the judicial system.
The prosecutor's and prosecutors' offices will be located in a separate public building outside the courthouse.
A judicial law enforcement organization will be established under the prosecutor's office.
The judicial law enforcement agency will also provide services to lawyers during investigations.
Arbitrary practices in house, workplace and body searches, detentions and arrests will end.
Judicial conditions in which everyone can receive services in their mother tongue will be created, and the practice of paying for interpreters in courts will be ended.
Illegal wiretaps that violate the right to privacy will be prevented and will not be accepted as evidence in courts.
WE WILL CHANGE THE LAWS ON POLITICAL PARTIES AND ELECTIONS!
The AKP wants to abolish political parties with its "one man" regime and move to a one-party state model.
The Political Parties Law will be amended to allow the grassroots, voters and members to participate directly in decisions.
The election threshold will be abolished.
In order to ensure fairness in representation, all parties will be represented in the Parliament in proportion to their vote share.
Equal representation and participation of women will be guaranteed.
The co-chairmanship system will be legalized at all levels of political parties
Parliamentary immunity will be limited to the immunity of the rostrum and freedom of expression.
Public workers will be granted the right to become members of political parties and engage in political activities.
The most beautiful country is one where human rights are respected.
HUMAN RIGHTS WILL BE GUARANTEED
AKP, which came to power in 2002 with an emphasis on human rights, has left a wreckage in all constitutional rights and freedoms, from the right to life to torture, from freedom of expression to freedom of assembly.
Using the July 15 coup attempt as an excuse, it suspended international conventions to which it is a party (such as the European Convention on Human Rights).
The AKP's militarist, masculine and hateful language encouraged those who violate human rights.
Impunity has been systematized.
Citizens and academics calling for peace were prosecuted and arrested.
We will start implementing the human rights conventions that were suspended by the AKP during the State of Emergency and not implemented in practice.
We will put an end to torture and ill-treatment.
We will remove legal and administrative obstacles to the prosecution of public officials who violate rights.
We will abolish the statute of limitations for crimes against humanity.
The maximum detention period will be 1 day for all charges.
We will not allow a trial without concrete evidence.
WE WILL CHANGE IT FOR HUMAN DIGNITY
As of March 2018, there are approximately 225,000 prisoners in prisons in Turkey.
Due to overcrowding in prisons, conditions contrary to human dignity are exposed.
While citizens demand justice, the AKP offers new prisons to our peoples as a good news of investment.
Political prisoners are dying one after another as a result of the environment and treatment in prisons that violate human dignity.
Thousands of political prisoners in prisons are treated as "hostages".
The harassment, rape and ill-treatment of children in prisons has reached horrific levels.
Sick prisoners are not provided with the necessary health support.
We will ensure the immediate release of sick prisoners.
Reports from full-fledged state hospitals will be deemed sufficient for prisoners to be treated outside.
The nearly 70 thousand students in prison, journalists, women and politicians who are unjustly imprisoned will be freed with fair amendments to the Turkish Penal Code.
We will put an end to isolation practices in prisons and abolish the authority given to prison administrations to "burn executions".
"Political crimes" will be decriminalized.
With the exception of hate crimes and crimes against humanity,
no one will be criminalized for their political views or actions.
F Type Prison will end.
We will bring general amnesty for political prisoners.
We will abolish the Anti-Terror Law, the Internal Security Law, the Law on Meetings and Demonstrations and the Law on the Duties and Powers of the Police, and make the necessary democratic amendments to the Penal Code.
Juvenile prisons will be closed.
Prisons will be opened to civilian control.
EQUALITY FOR PEOPLES, FREEDOM FOR RELIGIONS
There has never been a period in Turkey in which peoples have been divided, beliefs have been oppressed and freedoms have been taken away as much as during the AKP period.
The AKP's attitude of using faith as a tool for politics and its discriminatory approach among beliefs prevents freedom of belief and leads to social and religious degeneration.
We will persistently defend a libertarian understanding of secularism.
We will put an end to the monopolization of beliefs by the state.
We will constitutionally guarantee freedom of belief and conscience on the basis of equal citizenship.
We will defend the right of all peoples and beliefs to express themselves freely, regardless of religion, sect or philosophical view.
With a democratic constitution, we will reorganize all legal and institutional relations regulating religion and state relations and establish the Supreme Council of Religious Services.
This board will include a representative from each faith.
We will recognize all Alevi places of worship, especially Cemevis, as "places of worship" and put them under public guarantee.
Every student will have the freedom to take classes related to their faith.
Foundation properties and immovables confiscated by the state will be returned, similar practices will be put an end to, and material damages arising from the state's disposal will be compensated.
No interference in the way of life and dress of citizens will be allowed.
There will be no more constructions that threaten the sacred values and spaces of different beliefs and peoples and destroy their cultural habitats.
CONFRONTING THE PAST AND THE TRUTH
Societies that do not confront their past cannot understand their present and build their future.
One of the conditions for living in peace is confrontation with the past and the search for truth.
In the face of the genocide and massacres committed against different peoples and beliefs in history, we will work for a state apology to these peoples.
We will establish "Truth Commissions" to investigate genocides, deportations, massacres, executions, disappearances and similar practices and to reveal the truth.
FORCED DISPLACEMENT AND FORCED MIGRATION
Forced displacement and forced migration is one of the greatest harms to a society.
The impact of this damage, which has social, political and economic dimensions, lasts for hundreds of years.
We, with our understanding of local democracy, will produce compensation and solutions by confronting the memory of forced migration in order to establish life in place.
All properties occupied by the state or residents due to forced displacement to date will be returned to their owners.
Starting in 2015, all damages incurred by those displaced during blockades under curfews will be compensated.
The clearance of mines and wastes of war in accordance with the Ottawa Convention,
We will ensure that mined lands are made available for agricultural production.
We will put an end to new forced migration policies caused by border dams, hydroelectric power plants and urban transformation.
We will encourage the return from the city to the village.
We will provide financial support for returnees to participate in production.
VILLAGE GUARD SYSTEM TO BE ABOLISHED
The village guard system will be abolished and those involved in crimes will be prosecuted.
These groups will be compensated for the damage they have caused through the return of confiscated property.
Guards who are not involved in crime will be employed within the scope of community benefit programs.
THE RIGHT TO CONSCIENTIOUS OBJECTION WILL COME
The international conventions to which Turkey is a signatory, the judgments of the ECtHR, as well as the Turkish Constitution, which includes the right to freedom of belief and conscience, require the legalization of the right to conscientious objection.
We will guarantee the right of young people who do not want to take up arms and who oppose militarism not to do compulsory military service.
HATE CRIMES WILL NOT GO UNPUNISHED
Hate speech is based on prejudices, racism, xenophobia, all forms of discrimination, sexism and homophobia.
We will stand against stigmatizing people with hate speech, creating the perception of crime and hostility, and work for the punishment of hate crimes.
EQUAL AND FREE LIFE FOR ASYLUM SEEKERS AND REFUGEES
There are 4.3 million migrants living in Turkey under different statuses.
AKP defines refugees as "guests".
It fails to fulfill its national/international responsibilities and denies the rights of refugees.
The Temporary Protection Regime does not comply with international norms.
As a result of the AKP's refugee policies, hate speech against refugees in Turkey is on the rise and lynch attempts are taking place.
The AKP's negotiations with the EU over the lives of refugees have already taken their place in the black pages of world history.
We will build a free and equal society for refugees under equal citizenship law.
We will build relations with refugees and asylum seekers not on the basis of "aid campaigns" but on the basis of "rights concept".
We will always keep refugee camps open for inspection by national and international institutions and organizations.
We will legislate on racist and nationalist attacks and hate speech against refugees.
We will remove the 1951 Geneva Convention's reservations and make arrangements to ensure that refugee status is included in the scope of migration and asylum for those coming from outside Europe.
We will ensure the safety of refugees.
We will solve the problems of migrant workers regarding housing, health, informality, inequality, job security and the right to organize unions.
We will urgently solve all the persecution that refugee women face in business and social life.
We will make all necessary preparations for refugee children to receive education in their mother tongue.
The best country is a country where there is justice in the economy.
Turkey's economy is sick, almost suffocating!
Workers, farmers, pensioners, civil servants, youth, women, in short, almost the entire society is being crushed under the cost of living.
Shopkeepers are closing their shutters.
Families have serious concerns about the future of their children because they cannot receive "quality" and free education.
Due to the high level of additional payments, a quality health service has almost become a dream.
Minimum wage earners cannot even make ends meet with their salaries below the hunger line.
At the end of its 16-year rule, the AKP has enriched only a handful of cronies with its economic policies.
The palace has created 20 dollar billionaires and more than 40 world-class construction companies.
Exchange rate, interest rate, inflation and external deficit figures are alarming.
We are facing a panic election because of the economic crisis, but we are not without alternatives.
TURKEY WILL BREATHE WITH HDP
The goal of HDP's 'Peaceful and Participatory Economy of Trust' is to increase the control of producers over economic relations with an economic perspective that is solidaristic, where decisions are taken by the will of the people, and oriented towards meeting social needs.
Our perspective; economy in harmony with nature
and to create decent employment and increase income for low-income earners.
Funding for this program will be provided by preventing public wastage.
and a fair tax policy.
Thus, we will create both a just life and a just economy with the income we will transfer to approximately 60 million citizens living below the poverty line.
The red line of HDP's economic policies is the rights of laborers.
The purple line is women's rights and the
green line is the ecological rights of all living beings.
As HDP, we support labor
and environmentally friendly,
an efficient, equitable economic program;
tradesmen with a labor and nature-friendly growth model,
the farmer,
the civil servant, the worker,
We will increase the bread and table of pensioners.
Minimum Wage Earners
We will raise the minimum wage to 3,000 liras net.
No public servant, including MPs and the President, will be paid more than 3 times this minimum wage.
We will end poverty with the SOCIAL RIGHTS PROGRAM, which we will implement in all households with incomes below the poverty line by doubling the resources allocated to social rights from the budget.
The poor
In HDP government, we will implement a SOCIAL RIGHTS PROGRAM until we eradicate poverty.
In this context, we will gradually raise the income of households with a monthly household income below 6,000 liras above the poverty line with the social policies we will implement.
We will give a 1,000 TL raise to public employees with incomes below the poverty line.
We will pay 1,000 liras per month to all disabled people with a disability rate of 40 percent or more, 1,000 liras per month to 1 million elderly people who do not have a pension, at least 1,000 liras per month to all unemployed people, and 1,000 liras to all women who have to live in shelters until they are provided with suitable work and living opportunities.
Retirement income will be at least 3,000 liras.
Small and Medium Enterprises...
Incentives such as the 135 billion lira incentive program that the AKP gave to 19 pro-favored companies alone will be canceled.
We will establish a transparent incentive system for SMEs that focuses on employment and investment.
We will provide employment incentives on condition that they create additional employment.
Thus, we will significantly reduce unemployment.
We will support SMEs, not big capital, by preventing monopolization that eliminates competition among firms.
We will pass an anti-monopoly law.
We will create 5 million decent new jobs in SMEs, at least half of which will be women.
We will support women-intensive SMEs under a special program.
Tradesmen and Small Artisans...
With our Fair Distribution Program, we will increase the income of our low-income citizens, so that shopping will increase and tradesmen will breathe.
We will not give new licenses to shopping malls, which have mushroomed during the AKP era, increasing dependence on imports and increasing traffic congestion in the places where they are established.
We will ban chain markets in areas where they endanger the existence of shopkeepers.
We will reduce the tax burden of tradesmen.
We will establish artisan solidarity chests.
Diesel fuel support for the tradesmen in cooperation with local governments and cooperatives,
We will provide fishing support to fishermen tradesmen.
We will erase the interest of all bank debts up to a total of 50 thousand liras for all our citizens below the poverty line who are workers, farmers, tradesmen, civil servants and retired people.
We will restructure their principal debts with zero interest and long term.
We will stop the execution proceedings.
Farmers Will Breathe
Support to farmers for diesel, fertilizer, pesticides and seeds will be increased.
Farmers will be guaranteed product purchase.
The law on "support for farmers at a rate of at least 1 percent of national income (36 billion Lira)", which the AKP has not implemented, will be implemented immediately.
Agricultural Protected Areas will be established to prevent housing and industrialization of agricultural lands.
R&D areas on the main problems in the field of agriculture and animal husbandry will be established rapidly.
Foreign dependency on irrigation, seed and animal husbandry technologies will be reduced.
Opportunities for cooperatives in line with these objectives will be increased.
Highland bans will be lifted immediately, conditions for returning to villages will be created, and livestock and land support will be provided to farmers.
SOLUTION EQUITABLE DISTRIBUTION PROGRAM (HDP)
In HDP government, we will establish a fair and effective tax system and create resources for the FAIR DISTRIBUTION PROGRAM (HDP).
With a progressive system based on income and wealth, we will tax high earners more and low earners less.
These taxes reduce poverty,
job creation,
quality public education,
to provide free health care and transportation.
We will reduce the share of taxes such as SCT and VAT in revenues.
We will not tax the minimum wage.
We will reform income tax.
We will reduce the tax burden on citizens with incomes below the poverty line.
We will start the lowest tax bracket at 5 percent.
We will ensure the introduction of a minimum subsistence allowance for wage earners.
Since capital income earners were not taxed fairly during the AKP period, 60 percent of the total wealth was concentrated in the hands of 1 percent of the population.
We will eliminate this injustice with wealth-sensitive taxation.
We will hold to account those who earn in Turkey but smuggle their money to tax havens abroad.
We will identify and tax their assets in tax havens abroad.
We will introduce heavy prison sentences for politicians and their first-degree relatives who are found guilty of this through judicial review.
We will make corporate tax progressive according to scale, starting at 15 percent for small corporations.
To encourage production and employment, we will increase the investment allowance exemption up to 100 percent and shorten the depreciation period.
Social Growth Model
We will implement a new economic and social development model for projects that prioritize public services as a right.
With the public-private partnership model, we will end the investment and funding model that is at least 40 percent above the normal cost.
We will mobilize the mechanisms of direct democracy to replace these projects and financing models of the AKP, which tries to run Turkey like a joint stock company outside public law.
In the HDP government, we will implement a new organizational model that prioritizes the real needs of the people of the region in every region of Turkey.
We will implement an economic model in favor of worker-farmer-consumer cooperatives and the commons.
The founding components of the Regional Investment Banks to be established under the HDP government will be the Treasury, local governments/municipalities, labor unions, worker, farmer and consumer cooperatives, people's assemblies and democratic mass organizations.
Public financing will be based on taxation.
Taxes, mainly from upper income groups and taxation of non-productive capital, will be used primarily to finance these projects.
Within the scope of Central Bank financing, investment banks will issue debt securities such as long-term bills/bonds for these projects as a complement to public financing, and the Central Bank will primarily purchase these securities at very low interest rates.
The People's Bank and Ziraat Bank, which were allegedly established to support artisans and farmers, provide loans to favored companies and individuals.
In the HDP government, public banks will be at the service of the people.
Cities and Homeless Citizens
We will build human and nature-friendly cities against the plundering of cities for rent.
Instead of "crazy projects", we will realize reasonable projects for the benefit of people, society and nature and
provide decent housing for everyone.
We will reduce the tax on low-value housing for the poor to one percent.
We will tax urban rents progressively.
We will collect the taxes collected in this context in the Reconstruction Fund we will establish.
We will use this fund for urban infrastructure and on-site urban renewal in line with social needs.
Quality Free Public Service for All
We will provide education in quality public schools under public supervision.
We will end the marketization and privatization practices in the health sector that threaten public health.
We will make all public employees permanent.
We will end the practice of subcontractor/temporary employment in public sector.
Public transportation will be free for students, disabled, retired, young people and citizens below the poverty line.
Water and electricity will be free of charge up to the minimum required amount.
Thus, by not exceeding these amounts, energy savings will be achieved and waste of resources will be prevented.
Those with consumption exceeding these amounts will be subject to progressive pricing.
Democratic Budget
The right to budget is a fundamental right.
We will ensure Parliament's right to make and oversee the budget.
Local government budgets will be formulated in local assemblies.
In recent years, the AKP government has been allocating increasing resources to security policies.
These policies threaten social peace at home and regional peace abroad.
In the HDP government, we will save a great deal of these expenditures with the peaceful policies we will implement in Turkey and in our region.
Non-transparent tender procedures such as the invitation procedure, which is clearly favored by cronies in public tenders, will be abolished.
Democratic Economy
We will realize solidarity economies.
We will support social benefit-oriented structures, not profit-oriented ones.
We will support the community economy and cooperatives.
We will build people's farms.
Agriculture-centered, nature-friendly, energy-efficient farms
hunger, poverty and
We will find permanent solutions to unemployment.
There will be producers in the decision-making mechanisms in the production process, we will produce together, we will manage together.
RESOURCES WILL COME FROM AKP'S WASTE
Public waste in Turkey is enormous.
In the HDP government, we will transfer the resources to social rights and low-income people without increasing the tax burden on the poor and by preventing wasteful spending.
In 2018, we will reduce the presidential budget, which is expected to exceed 2 billion liras, by 90 percent.
In the HDP government, we will reduce our interest expenditures by lowering interest rates not by order but by trust.
We will put an end to pomp in all public institutions.
We will stop the payments under the state guarantee in city hospitals, bridge-highway projects within the scope of public-private partnership.
We will put an end to this project approach that is against the public interest.
We will increase the number of sanctions against tax evasion, corruption and bid rigging.
We will end tax exemptions, exceptions, discounts and tax amnesties for big capital.
We will end budget overspending or slush funds.
The only privatization that will take place in the HDP government will be office vehicles, office helicopters and office planes.
Presidential planes will be sold under privatization.
All public officials, including the President, will use scheduled flights and public transportation.
We will cancel privatizations, especially sugar factories.
Politics is about making choices.
In economic policies, we prefer the poor,
from labor
peace
the woman, the youth, the child,
in favor of nature.
The most beautiful country is the one where the laborer gets his due.
LABOR EXPLOITATION WILL END
A capital accumulation regime based on the plunder of labor has been a priority policy of the AKP governments and has marked the process.
Flexibility, precariousness and subcontracting have come to the fore as the main employment policies in the production process.
Practices in which an average of 6 workers a day lose their lives in occupational homicides have become 'ordinary cases'.
Unemployment grew like an avalanche during the AKP period.
The state of emergency regime, where academics who call for peace are dismissed from their jobs and dragged through court gates,
where strikes are banned and free collective bargaining is blocked,
It has been the name of an 'enemy of labor' period in which public laborers were dismissed with emergency decrees and were wanted to be forced to starve.
Occupational health and safety is an inalienable right.
We will take the necessary measures, make structural adjustments and apply international standards without exception.
We will ensure the establishment of the 'National Council for Occupational Health and Safety', which will operate under the management of relevant institutions with a focus on labor.
We will make regulations that will take the responsibility of the main company and the top employer as a basis in occupational homicides.
We will implement a wage policy worthy of human dignity.
We will exempt the minimum wage from tax.
We will make the necessary arrangements to determine the minimum wage through collective bargaining based on equal representation, including the right to strike.
We will pave the way for freedom of association in all areas of work (unemployed, pensioners, students, farmers).
We will secure the right to strike and collective bargaining as a fundamental means of seeking, protecting and developing rights for all workers, and we will abolish the government's authority to postpone strikes.
We will reduce official weekly working hours to 35 hours without loss of pay.
We will eliminate unregistered work.
We will provide the necessary resources for the social security system through formal employment.
We will ban mass layoffs under the pretext of the crisis.
We will remove all obstacles to pensioners' freedom of union organization.
We will lower the retirement age and put an end to retirement at the grave.
We will ease retirement conditions for part-time workers.
We will make a legal arrangement to prioritize the payment of workers' receivables in bankrupt or insolvent workplaces over state and bank receivables.
Safe work and a secure future is the right of every laborer.
We will put an end to the practice of hired labor, close private employment agencies and carry out employment intermediation services by the public sector.
We will end subcontracting in all public or private workplaces and abolish the subcontracting system.
We will make the necessary arrangements to restore all retroactive rights of subcontracted workers.
We will apply equal pay for equal work and
provide job security to everyone without discrimination.
We will not allow severance pay to be usurped.
We will secure the receivables of workers who cannot receive severance pay from the Treasury.
We will include domestic work under the Labor Law.
Organizing domestic workers,
social security
We will regulate rights such as workers' health by law.
Arrangements for women to work part-time will be supported by institutional care services.
The conditions for part-time working women to benefit from unemployment benefits and pension rights will be expanded.
We will give legal status to seasonal agricultural workers and pave the way for freedom of association.
Seasonal workers; transportation, housing, nutrition, clean water, toilets, wages, working hours, job security,
health, social security,
We will allow rights such as children's education to be determined by contracts between employers and workers.
We will put an end to privatization, subcontracting and royalty practices in mines, and we will operate the mines by the state.
We will sign and fully implement international conventions on occupational health and safety in mines.
We will reinstate public workers who have been unjustly and unlawfully victimized, especially those dismissed by emergency decrees, and compensate their losses.
We will abolish emergency decrees with all their consequences and implement an employment policy based on merit, not loyalty.
Construction workmanship in the construction and infrastructure sector will be brought up to standards.
Workers will be provided with decent housing conditions until the subcontracting system ceases to exist.
The most beautiful country is a country of social equality.
SOCIAL EQUALITY IS THE FUTURE
The state is obliged to ensure social equality.
The most important obstacles to social equality in Turkey are income inequality and nepotism.
The share of the richest 20 percent in total income has become 7.7 times higher than the share of the poorest 20 percent.
Our social policies will support the fair distribution of resources and aim for both economic and vital transformation.
We will not leave any citizen unemployed, disabled, elderly, sick, sick, child, widowed or divorced, orphaned, poor or hungry.
We will take as a basis the understanding of free and social citizenship that will make it possible for the individual to be free from dependence on the family or the state.
The basic needs of citizens, such as water, electricity, transportation and housing, will be removed from the sphere of profit.
In line with the right to housing, we will solve the housing problem of all citizens.
We will establish and/or support production and consumption cooperatives so that people can live cheaper and have jobs.
We will provide free service to those who consume up to a certain amount of water, electricity and natural gas and to those covered by the Social Assistance and Solidarity Incentive Law.
We will provide 10 cubic meters of free water consumption.
We will provide 200 kwh/month of electricity free of charge for a family of four.
We will abolish all tax deductions from water, natural gas and electricity bills.
Public transportation will be free for students, disabled, retired, young people and citizens below the poverty line.
The Social Security Institution and the Social Assistance and Solidarity Institutions will be managed in an open, democratic and accountable manner together with the government, employees, employers and NGOs.
We will end the practice of mandatory individual contributions to private insurance and reflect the deductions in salaries.
WE WILL SUPPORT SOCIAL ASSISTANCE WITH SOCIAL WORK
Having failed to develop a qualified employment policy, the AKP is introducing social assistance as a substitute for work.
Citizens are trying to make ends meet with social assistance.
Education and
Underinvestment in health does not prevent the intergenerational legacy of poverty.
Citizens are being tied to the state at the navel.
We will implement a transparent and poverty-reducing Social Rights Program.
We will transform social assistance from being a favor of the government and pursue a social policy based on citizens' rights.
We will ensure that the poor benefit from this service without offending them.
We will continue the state's current social assistance programs and eliminate the grievances of the beneficiaries arising from these programs.
We will develop priority employment programs for beneficiaries of the social benefits program.
We will support social assistance with institutional services, rather than limiting it to cash support.
We will provide social support packages for women according to the principle of social justice and equality and in a gender-equal manner.
We will ensure that divorced women also benefit from the support offered to women whose spouses have passed away.
We will improve public services for older people to receive care support during certain hours without the need to leave their families.
We will provide cleaning services to the homes of people in need of care.
We will ensure that the health needs of people in need of care are regularly met in the place where they live.
We will establish a Ministry of Removing Barriers for disabled citizens We
will provide public services for disabled people, taking into account the differences of disability groups.
We will no longer require income for disabled and elderly citizens to receive care pensions and we will increase home care support.
We will ensure that caregivers are insured, with all premiums covered by the state.
We will establish care homes in every district for disabled people who need care but want to live independently.
We will make all public transportation vehicles suitable for the disabled and free of charge for the disabled.
We will establish disabled vehicle charging stations so that citizens who have to use disabled vehicles (electric wheelchairs) can use urban transportation comfortably and freely.
We will work to make all workplaces and social spaces suitable for disabled people.
We will apply tax exemptions with the aim of increasing the number of disabled-friendly venues (restaurants, cafes, movie theaters, etc.).
We will ensure that all disabled citizens are provided with social security.
We will fight against discourse that devalues the labor of disabled people.
We will develop incentives for disabled employment.
We will fill employment quotas for people with disabilities in the private and public sector.
In the first year of the HDP government, we will employ 50 thousand disabled people in the public sector.
We will provide facilities for children with disabilities in all public nurseries and kindergartens.
The most beautiful country is the one where everyone can live in good health.
FREE, EQUAL, ACCESSIBLE HEALTH SYSTEM
Under AKP rule, health has ceased to be a public service area, individual and public health has been disregarded, and rent has been provided to cronies through health.
Preventive and preventive health services have been completely abandoned and the health sector has been left to the interests of national and international capital under the name of public-private partnership.
The last stage of what has been done in 16 years under the name of the Health Transformation Program is the 'City Hospitals Project', which brings the corporate order in health.
City hospitals cause human rights violations.
City hospitals, which constitute a significant obstacle to good medical practice and quality health care, are generally located far from city centers and hinder access to the right to health.
Health services, from production to the distribution of health workers, will be carried out with an understanding that builds accessible health institutions and organizations that are free, equal, accessible, in the mother tongue, gender-equal and ecological, based on the participation of every individual.
A democratic health system in which the public and health workers will participate in the planning, implementation, evaluation and supervision of health services will be established.
Health services will be based on preventive and health promotion services.
For this purpose, "public health units" will be established.
Public health units will be involved in health socialization activities.
Public hospitals will adopt the principle of working on the basis of social benefit.
Profit-oriented practices such as performance-based remuneration will be ended.
Additional wages, premiums, contributions and all kinds of out-of-pocket payments will be abolished.
The city hospitals model, which is the new form of privatization in health, will be abolished and the city hospitals will be transferred to the public as soon as possible to put an end to this plunder.
Hospitals in the city will be protected.
A hospital system that is based on meeting the health needs of the society by using public resources, where health services can be easily accessed and treatment services can be provided effectively and in a holistic manner will be implemented.
Mechanisms to prevent violence against health workers will be developed.
The most beautiful country is the one where everyone can receive quality education.
FREE AND EQUAL EDUCATION POSSIBLE
The AKP government targeted public, free, scientific, secular and democratic education.
He implemented politically motivated education policies based on the abuse of faith.
He rapidly increased the number of private schools and imam hatip schools.
By privileging these schools, the AKP started the process of liquidating other public schools and deepened inequalities between schools.
It has implemented education policies that continuously segregate children and youth according to their class, gender, language, beliefs and ethnicity.
It ignored the right to education in one's mother tongue.
With all these actions, he reduced the quality of education.
The AKP has exerted enormous pressure on education workers, ignoring their financial, personal and trade union rights.
He accelerated policies to eliminate their job security.
It abolished the academic, financial and administrative autonomy of universities and increased the powers of YÖK, a tutelage institution, many times over.
Under the pretext of the state of emergency, thousands of democratic and oppositional education workers and academics were dismissed.
The AKP, which divides and fragments universities as it pleases and criminalizes professors and students who demand peace, has tried to silence every democratic demand rising from universities with repression.
But all this is not fate, a different education is possible.
Education is a right, the school is a public space of discourse and communal living.
That is why we will finance education through taxes.
We will never demand money from parents under any name whatsoever.
We will eliminate the differences between schools.
We will create opportunities for all schools to provide the same level of education in terms of physical facilities, teacher quality and curricula.
We will end the 4+4+4 practice that segregates schools for ideological reasons.
We will restructure the education system from the very beginning on the basis of universal children's rights.
We will abolish the monist, sexist, sectarian and racist education curriculum and implement a new education curriculum based on scientific, secular, democratic, libertarian, pluralist and mother tongue education.
We will make religion classes non-compulsory.
We will add gender equality to the curriculum.
We will give positive discrimination to children who are excluded from educational environments, denied adequate educational opportunities or condemned to failure because of their differences or disabilities.
We will create a safe, equitable and accessible structure for all students with disabilities.
We will restructure the education system based on an ecological perspective integrated with society and nature.
We will make the link between education and employment healthy.
We will implement support policies that empower girls and ensure that they fully enjoy their right to education.
We will prevent women and LGBTI+ persons from being subjected to all forms of oppression, violence, exclusion and ignorance in educational institutions.
We will end the assimilation policies in schools.
We will constitutionally guarantee the right of every child and young person to education in their mother tongue.
We will abolish all central exams such as OKS, SBS, TEOG, LYS and YGS, whose name, content and format are changed every year.
Instead of an exam-oriented system, we will establish a system that will ensure the joint development of teachers and students.
Schools will not be the only place of learning for students and adults.
We will provide public libraries, libraries and cultural centers spread across the city's districts, as well as learning environments spread over a wide period of time.
In dormitories, which should be seen as a part of the right to education, we will implement policies such as housing students in single or double rooms, providing food and beverage facilities, hot and cold water and internet access.
We will appoint 200 thousand teachers.
We will abolish the practice of contracted and paid teaching and ensure permanent and secure employment for all teachers.
We will rebuild universities as democratic, autonomous and multicultural institutions that conduct research for the benefit of society and nature.
We will not allow our universities to be divided and taken out of the city.
We will abolish the Council of Higher Education (YÖK) and replace it with a coordination board that will ensure relations and information flow between universities.
By ensuring that university rectors and deans are elected by university constituents, we will ensure that student assemblies/councils have a voice in university boards at all levels.
We will make legal arrangements for thousands of students in prisons for political reasons to regain their freedom.
We will ensure the return of academics, teachers and students who were unjustly and unlawfully dismissed from universities by emergency decrees for exercising their right to freedom of thought and expression by saying "We will not be a party to this crime".
We will ensure that new chairs are opened in universities in languages that have been assimilated such as Kurdish, Laz and Syriac.
The most beautiful country is the one where the rights of nature are protected.
From the day it took power until today, the AKP has wreaked unprecedented destruction on nature and cities.
It has turned all living spaces of living creatures into rent-seeking areas.
WE will change this order that is hostile to human beings, nature and all life.
We will enshrine in the Constitution the understanding that "the rights of nature are superior to human interests".
Protecting the ecosystem against capitalism's commodification and exploitation of nature, cultural and natural assets and life is a fundamental principle of WE.
HDP does not consider the struggle to protect life and living spaces as separate from the labor and class struggle.
HDP recognizes that ecological principles are the priority in all economic sectors, from industry to construction, from food to textiles.
Together, WE will realize the demands of those who struggle to defend and protect the rights to nature and life in rural and urban areas.
As HDP, we will put an end to projects such as dams, hydroelectric power plants, thermal power plants, nuclear power plants, etc. for the benefit of capital, mining operations that lead to ecological destruction, and practices that lead to the destruction of living spaces as a result of industrial waste and pollution.
We will ensure that local people decide on all kinds of projects in their living spaces and democratize processes such as EIA etc.
We will stop urban transformation projects that plunder cities and destroy the people's right to shelter; we will stop those who usurp historical and cultural assets and common living spaces.
We will prevent the privatization and marketization of environmental services such as water and solid waste.
The squares, parks, groves and coasts of cities are our common spaces to be protected.
We will not allow any project or practice that will disrupt or destroy the public, natural quality and cultural fabric of these areas.
All projects such as Canal Istanbul will be halted, even if they have already started.
We will not allow capital projects to destroy historical sites, forests and natural areas that form the identity of the city and cause ecological destruction.
We will stop projects of this nature that have already started.
We will use all means to eliminate damages to natural areas.
We will be based on the protection of water as an asset, which is indispensable for life on earth.
We will end the commodification of water.
We will uphold the right of every living being to clean water.
We will prevent wastage of water and destruction of underground water resources.
We will cancel prepaid meters installed in houses and fields.
We will provide the water needed for subsistence farming free of charge.
We will not allow agricultural land, forests and pastures to be used for capital projects.
We will not open the forest areas destroyed for these projects to construction.
We will protect and preserve agricultural areas.
We will support subsistence/small farming, animal husbandry, beekeeping.
We will support projects that will ensure that energy is produced on-site for the needs of local people.
We will prioritize the on-site production of the energy needed for public needs from wind and solar sources.
We will put an end to the privatization of energy transport and distribution.
We will not allow the structuring of production and recycling based on nuclear power and radioactivity, and we will not allow agricultural areas, pastures, forests and coasts to become nuclear waste sites.
Mersin Akkuyu and Sinop nuclear power plant projects will be canceled.
We will cancel water use right agreements.
Animals Have Rights
We will enact an Animal Rights Law based on the right to life of all living beings.
We will increase the penalties for crimes such as torture, ill-treatment, sexual assault and killing of animals as a deterrent.
WE will prevent the use of animals in commercial experiments.
We will put an end to the use of animals in circuses, street performances, etc.
We will abolish regulations and laws that ensure that animals are culled and their fur and assets are made part of capital accumulation.
We will abolish animal shelters that have turned into concentration camps.
The most beautiful country is the one that lives in peace with its neighbors.
AT PEACE WITH OUR NEIGHBORS AND THE WORLD
The current government, which maintains its entire power through war and tensions at home and abroad, constantly generates enmity and social polarization, seriously threatening social peace between peoples in the country and on a global scale.
We will change this order of war imposed on our geography as destiny!
One of the main tasks is to put an end to the current government's policy of fighting with the whole world and to end wars and conflicts in line with the ideal of a world at peace.
We will struggle for the peoples of the Middle East and the whole world to freely determine their own political future and to develop and implement a democratic, egalitarian and libertarian understanding of governance in which the peoples will govern themselves.
We will immediately put an end to the anti-Kurdish policy carried out by the current government in the Middle East.
We will strive for an end to the civil war in Syria, for the emergence of a democratic solution based on the brotherhood and equality of peoples, and we will fight for the recognition of the will of the people of Rojava for democratic governance and for the democratic Syrian government to come to life.
It will stand against the Israeli government's occupation policies based on ethnic cleansing.
We will support an end to the occupation of Palestine and the recognition of the right of the Palestinian people to an independent state that will allow them to determine their own political future.
We will not be bound by the artificial borders drawn by the imperialists in the Middle East, we will work to strengthen the economic, social and cultural ties between the peoples and to eliminate the bureaucratic obstacles that obscure the relations.
We will continue to support the proposals and efforts of the Turkish and Greek Cypriot peoples to end the division of the island and achieve a political settlement.
We will lift the economic embargo on Armenia, develop the necessary economic, political and diplomatic relations, and unconditionally open the Turkish-Armenian border, which was closed unilaterally by Turkey.
We will support efforts for a peaceful settlement of the Karabakh conflict between Armenia and Azerbaijan.
Respect for human rights in the European Union,
local democracy,
We will continue to defend the principles he has put at the forefront, such as the separation of powers and the rule of law.
We will support the EU's stance against the neo-liberal policies of the EU, which have become especially evident in the Greek crisis and the massacres of migrants, and its common struggle with the oppressed of Europe, and we will address negotiations and full membership with the EU within the framework of our principles.
We will continue to oppose imperialist interventions, the occupation of other countries' territories, and policies such as military or civil war-provoking interventions in neighboring countries.
We will cooperate to develop solutions to the problems of racism, anti-Semitism, human trafficking (exploitation of women, children, labor), immigration problems, international drug trafficking, displacement, xenophobia, Islamophobia and similar problems that concern human values in Europe and around the world.
the most beautiful country is the one where art can be practiced freely.
WE WILL PROTECT AND PRESERVE OUR CULTURAL RIGHTS
The AKP sees our lives, cultural values and differences as a threat to its existence.
He is trying to melt them all into a single pot and establish the absolute hegemony of his own power.
With its special war media, militarist TV series and commercials, trigger-happy television programs and, most importantly, the news, it puts our lives in a tight grip.
Historical monuments, symbolic sites and monuments are being demolished, theaters are being closed, plays are being censored, films are being banned, exhibitions are being raided.
In Turkey, publishing houses are raided and books are banned.
As can be seen in cases such as AKM, cultural venues that are integrated with the urban memory are being demolished by the AKP.
Ensuring cultural democracy in its broadest scope, from the right to education in one's mother tongue to respect for ecological existence, from our historical richness to freedom of expression, is the most important milestone on the road to democratic life and lasting peace and is our most essential duty.
Acquisition, preservation and protection of our cultural rights are among our most fundamental priorities.
We will continue to organize, produce, share and explain the culture of New Life among the peoples.
We will create all the conditions for art and artists to produce in a free environment.
We will continue to stand in solidarity with people, institutions and representatives of culture and arts.
We will end state suppression of culture and arts.
All obstacles to the organization and development of art from local to global level will be removed.
We will adopt a multi-lingual, multi-voiced, multi-colored art and culture policy, and we will encourage creative art by transforming support programs for the arts from being a rent-seeker's market.
We will create all conditions for the unearthing, production and development of works of art and culture in the languages that live in our country and those that have been lost.
We will repeal all laws that lead to censorship.
The work of art and the labor of the artist will be secured.
The organization of artists will be supported.
We will protect our heritage sites such as Hasankeyf, Sumela, Ephesus, Zeugma and Göbeklitepe, and stop rent-seeking projects in these areas.
We will put an end to exploitation and inhumane working conditions, especially in the film and television industry.
We will support all rights and organizational rights of artists.
We will abolish the practice of awarding the title of State Artist in the field of culture and arts.
the best country is a democratic sporting environment.
VIOLENCE IN SPORTS WILL END
With the AKP, the Federation and club administrations have been left to the monopoly of crony capital.
Sport has been transformed into a propaganda tool for the masses, and has become a field of chauvinism and hooliganism, not of friendly competition and tolerance.
We will fight against an understanding that infects sports with match-fixing and match-fixing, privileges certain clubs, and turns the sports field into a mafia-like bribery and money laundering area.
We will create sports centers, fields and areas easily accessible to the public.
We will reorganize sports with an understanding that prioritizes the general health of the people, rather than the ideological field of the state.
We will democratize the federations and transfer the initiative to the locals.
We will transform sports from a source of social tension to a place of social gathering and shared enthusiasm.
The sports organization will convey values such as respecting the opponent and his/her labor, competing under fair conditions, caring more about being part of the competition and event than winning.
We will spend the resources allocated to sports not for giant capital structures, but for the opportunity of every citizen to do sports.
We will end the Passolig application.
Amateur sports will be supported and sports centers will be established in neighborhoods and villages.
Sports will no longer be a hunting ground for militarism, sexism and nationalism.
We will increase the number of licensed active athletes.
The distribution of licensed athletes according to sports branches will be balanced and the dominance of football, which marginalizes all other sports branches, will be reduced.
The most beautiful country is the one whose journalists are free.
PRESS AND INTERNET WILL BE FREE
The media in Turkey has become monophonic and the government has used the media as a tool for the design of society.
During the State of Emergency, trustees were appointed to newspapers and 213 opposition media outlets were shut down by emergency decrees.
Publications that criticize and question the policies of the government have become impossible.
223 opposition journalists are in prison.
Turkey has fallen to 155th place out of 180 countries in the world press freedom ranking.
Visual, audio and print broadcasting has been suppressed by the government, and an institution such as TRT, which is supposed to be a public broadcaster and financed by the taxes of all citizens, has served as the most important media organ of the government.
We will prevent the restriction of the public's freedom to receive accurate information due to political and commercial relations and the exploitation of citizens through the media.
We will not allow owners of media organizations to operate in other sectors.
We will abolish all regulations that hinder freedom of the press.
There will be no more imprisoned journalists in prisons.
We will guarantee the freedom to report and write the truth.
We will put an end to media monopolization.
It will be the people's media instead of the monist ruling media.
We will guarantee pluralist, polyphonic and mother-tongue broadcasting.
All media outlets shut down by emergency decrees issued under the State of Emergency (SoE) will be reopened and their confiscated assets will be returned.
We will organize a Press Ethics Law to support the principles of professional, ethical and free journalism in all print, visual and digital media.
We will prevent all kinds of provocative, targeting, sexist and hateful language in the media.
Gender equality in broadcasting and protection of children will be fully guaranteed.
Democratic control mechanisms will be put in place for publications that encourage violence, harassment, abuse and hate speech.
We will put an end to all interventions, censorship and self-censorship aimed at restricting freedom of communication.
We will support local radio, television, newspapers and internet broadcasting organizations to adhere to the principles of professional, ethical and free journalism and to protect their independence.
RTÜK will be restructured with a democratic and libertarian approach, and we will remove it from a prohibitive position.
We will ensure that new media technologies are used for the public good, not to promote consumption.
We will put an end to all forms of censorship on the internet.
We will remove arbitrary internet bans and barriers to freedom of expression on social media.
We will end the bans on social media platforms such as Wikipedia, Twitter and Facebook.
We will promote open source free software.
We will implement a broadcasting policy based on public broadcasting that will neutralize the TRT institution, which has turned into the voice of the government by going beyond this purpose, although it should be a public broadcaster as required by the Constitution and the law.
We will ensure equal opportunity in TRT broadcasts.
the most beautiful country is the country where children have rights.
CHILDREN'S RIGHTS WILL BE PROTECTED
Children are unprotected because the AKP has not produced comprehensive policies for children in the last 16 years.
While abuse against children has increased by 700 percent, problem areas such as child labor, early marriage, suicide, drug addiction and missing children have reached frightening dimensions.
The harassment, sexual abuse and assaults that children experience in prisons stand before us as a shame of this country/government.
Everyone under 18 is a child.
We will ensure that all children live in happiness, dignity and peace.
We will establish a Ministry of Children for a supra-political child policy.
We will close juvenile prisons.
We will implement restorative justice mechanisms by applying alternative models.
We will reopen all children's rights institutions that were closed down with the emergency decrees issued under the State of Emergency.
We will provide public funding to civil society organizations working for children's rights.
We will not allow violence against children in all public and private spaces.
We will create effective solution mechanisms to prevent abuse and neglect.
We will eliminate impunity.
We will protect abused children in safe conditions.
We will expand childcare services.
We will implement an understanding of education that is appropriate for the development of all children, in their mother tongue, scientific and based on human rights.
We will open and support day-care centers for all working and non-working women and men with local and public funding.
We will enact laws for child-friendly municipalism.
We will establish Child Rights Monitoring and Evaluation Commissions affiliated to local municipalities and allocate sufficient resources to child-based areas.
We will review the laws on children and the articles affecting children in all laws and ensure that they are harmonized with children's rights.
We will develop policies to prevent child poverty.
We will establish a Food Bank in every neighborhood to protect the right to food for all children.
We will provide every child with a food package containing basic food items free of charge.
There will be no child living on the streets and forced to work.
We will eliminate child labor.
We will implement preventive and protective policies to end substance abuse in children.
We will employ enough specialized personnel in every institution providing services to children.
We will implement supervision mechanisms to prevent violence and abuse in dormitories and other institutions where children stay.
We will establish effective mechanisms to involve children in all areas of life.
the most beautiful country is the one that gives hope to its youth.
A FREE YOUTH
Those who think they are solving the problems of young people by lowering the voting and election age to 18 are trying to eliminate the political space for young people.
Young people are excluded from politics and social life.
Young people are the target of security-based violence policies.
The unlawful treatment of Boğaziçi University students is only a part of the political violence against 70,000 young people.
There are 70 thousand young people in prisons and millions more unemployed.
Fighting youth unemployment, which leaves Turkey without a future, is a priority.
We will prevent the exclusion of unemployed youth from social life, and develop solidarity networks and socialization opportunities in neighborhoods and districts.
We will wage the most effective fight against drugs and substance abuse.
We will be a breath of fresh air for the hundreds of thousands of unemployed and hopeless young people with diplomas created by the understanding that says "a university in every city" in a completely unqualified way.
Education,
health, nutrition, housing, transportation,
It is a youth right to have their needs for sports, social and cultural development met in a qualified and free of charge manner.
We will make this right come to life.
The Youth Assemblies model will be an absolute part of decision-making mechanisms.
We will remove all constitutional obstacles to the right of every 18-year-old citizen to have a say, authority, decision and participation in the streets, universities, high schools and political life.
We will put an end to favoritism and nepotism in recruitment and introduce merit-based, scientific criteria.
We will abolish the interview requirement that causes favoritism in civil servant recruitment.
We will eliminate the inequality caused by the hierarchy of age and experience in business life.
We will take measures to prevent new slavery conditions camouflaged as internships and apprenticeships.
We will develop measures against psychological pressure, threats, harassment, drudgery and wage inequality.
We will ensure that unemployed young people are included in the social security system and benefit from unemployment insurance.
With the understanding that internet access is a right for young people, we will provide uncensored, free and free internet access.
At the same time, we will develop socialization policies to prevent the use of the right from turning into an addiction that detaches young people from life.
Visa and passport procedures for all young people will be carried out free of charge.
We will distribute a YOUTH CARD to all young people, whether they are employed, unemployed or students, which will be loaded with 500 TL every month.
We will quickly solve the dormitory and housing problems of university youth and prevent their future from being handed over to sects.
We will provide free dormitories and housing for all university students.
We will provide 500 lira rent assistance to approximately 1 million university students who cannot afford dormitories and accommodation.
We will make KYK scholarships free of charge.
We will increase scholarships to at least 750 TL for each student and gradually increase this amount for master's and doctorate students.
Until 2010, we will erase past KYK debts and repay the debts paid since 2010 with legal interest.
We will make university and dormitory cafeterias free of charge.
We will make our fertile land such that young people will not seek their future in other countries.
The most beautiful country is one where women are equal and free.
GENDER EQUALITY AND WOMEN'S LIBERATION
Women change!
Women are faced with a political power that eliminates their social, political and intellectual existence, pushes women into invisible areas, destroys their talents and knowledge, and denies women the right to exist in social life.
With the rise of fascism, male domination has systematically increased its oppression of women.
Femicides, rapes, usurpation of women's gains, civil and social rights, interference in lifestyles, holding women's will hostage, deepening violence against women at home and on the streets are the result of the government's women's policies.
They want to establish a regime where women do not take part, where their voices are not reflected.
But we, women, do not leave the streets even under the state of emergency and do not let the rulers pass.
Our greatest strength is the women's alliance.
We are aware of our strength and we continue to walk side by side.
The attitude and behavior of women at this stage of history will directly affect the future.
We challenge the male-dominated power and change it in order to rebuild an equal and free country together for equal sharing of life, politics and rights.
With the June 24 elections, not only a president and MPs will be elected, but also a regime will be changed.
For 16 years, women will change this monist, sexist, militarist regime that has been implemented step by step and has turned into open fascism.
Women will be in the squares and at the polling stations to claim their lives.
On June 24, everything will change with women.
The June 24 elections will be a turning point for women.
For 16 years, against a monist and male-dominated government that has been increasing its pressure on women, women will bring their will, their words and their dreams to the government.
In this period when all forms of opposition are targeted, women will spread women's solidarity all over the country.
On March 8, on November 25, on women's strikes, we have once again seen how strong we are.
We are aware of our power.
On June 25th, Women will be in Power
We will bring the system of equal representation and co-presidency, which we won through struggle at home, on the street, in the social and political spheres, to the Presidency.
We will strengthen the Co-Presidency system with a pluralist governance mechanism that aims for shared governance of the people.
We will make women's initiative effective and visible in the establishment of social peace.
We will grow solidarity among women across borders.
We will continue to govern our cities with the co-presidency model that is the envy of the whole world.
We will reopen all women's support centers closed by the trustees and continue to build women-friendly cities.
Together, we will reopen all women's associations and foundations that were shut down under the pretext of the State of Emergency and that play a vital role in women's lives.
where women's voices can be heard, women's journalism will be practiced "without worrying about what men will say".
We will build a strong tradition of a free press based on gender equality,
We will solve the problems migrant women face due to being women and migrants.
With the gains we have achieved together throughout history, we will be a barrier to the regime that ignores women by bringing "headship" into politics and "Erdoğan model" masculinity into households.
We will decide what to wear, how to live, where to go.
We will live with confidence, joy, enthusiasm and hope.
No man or power will touch our bodies, labor and identity.
We will establish the Ministry of Women, where women and women's organizations directly develop solutions to women's issues.
We will not allow them to divide us on the basis of marriage, clothing and war politics, and to divide us into acceptable and unacceptable.
With our differences,
with our freedom and
we will meet with the peace we will build.
Against the government that instrumentalizes religious beliefs to legitimize its own male-dominated interests; we will defend freedom of belief that respects women's rights.
We will decide our own headscarves and skirt lengths.
We will build a life without barriers together with disabled women.
We will declare March 8, the international celebration of women's unity, a public holiday for women.
Against the pressure to have three or five children, if we don't want to have children, we won't, we will have as many children as we want.
We will encourage men to take on parental responsibilities and share domestic labor.
We will introduce non-transferable paternity leave.
We will open accessible, free, high-quality neighborhood and workplace kindergartens.
We will produce policies for the commonization of domestic labor as well as child, elderly and sick care in common living spaces.
We will open nursing homes for the sick and elderly so that paid or unpaid care is no longer women's work.
We will make homes, workplaces, streets and nights safe for women.
We will be able to move freely in the areas where we live without fear of violence and harassment.
Prisons will not house dissidents, elected MPs and mayors, but those whose names are associated with violence, rape, corruption and abuse;
we will establish a sufficient number of shelters and rape crisis centers in accordance with the Istanbul Convention.
We Will Bring Real Justice Instead of Male Justice!
We will ensure that perpetrators receive deterrent and fair sentences against "good behavior" and "provocation" discounts, which have become discounts for masculinity in femicide cases.
Justice will no longer be delayed and impunity, a wound on the public conscience, will be eliminated.
There are millions of women in Turkey who want to work but are unemployed.
No woman is free from poverty,
will not have to struggle with unemployment.
We will not work flexibly, precariously, part-time; we will work in secure, humane jobs with equal pay for equivalent work.
All decree decrees will be canceled; tens of thousands of women who have been dismissed from their jobs will return to their hard-earned professions.
We will bring early retirement for women who work at home and at work, who work double shifts.
We will provide women with health insurance coverage independent of fathers and husbands, unemployment benefits and a citizenship income.
We will provide job opportunities for all seasonal and temporary workers where they are located.
We will put an end to seasonal women workers being subjected to all kinds of exploitation and discrimination in the places they go, and being torn away from their lives in the tractor and truck bodies.
We will introduce quotas for women in jobs and management positions that are considered men's jobs.
We will end discrimination and sexism in education; we will choose the schools we attend and the jobs we work in.
We will protect the rights of forests, streams, air, water, stone, soil, trees, wolves, birds, insects and all life, and defend the knowledge of life.
We will take steps to eliminate all kinds of inequality and discrimination, especially hate crimes, against LGBTI+s in the social, cultural and political spheres and create the conditions for them to lead an equal, free and dignified life.
We will foster a culture of respect for gender identity.
We will increase employment options for LGBTI+ persons.
We will aim to eliminate not only the consequences of violence against women, but violence itself.
With our preventive policies, we will fight male domination, which is the root cause of violence.
