For the free man...
The Republican People's Party is a modern social democratic party committed to the founding principles and values of the Republic.
CHP is the party of change.
CHP is the party of great transformations.
All three major transformations that Turkey has undergone on the road to liberation and democratization have the signature of the CHP.
The CHP established the Republic and gave sovereignty to the people.
The CHP ensured the transition to multi-party life and the democratic transfer of power.
The CHP brought the discussions on social democracy to Turkey's agenda
and initiated efforts to create a social state that would be a concrete supporter of freedoms.
As the inheritor of this revolutionary history, the CHP will now realize Turkey's fourth great transformation.
Under CHP rule, liberal democracy will be established in Turkey.
ATATURK'S REVOLUTIONS AND THE SIX ARROW PRINCIPLE
Our passion for independence,
The will of the people,
citizen's freedom
and our claim to be a modern society based on modernization,
They are the sources of our determination to protect and develop the ideals of Republic-Laicism-Democracy.
CHP IS LIBERTARIAN According to the CHP's understanding, freedom is the fundamental condition for the development of human personality and thought, human talents and creativity.
The self-realization of the human being in society,
to become a citizen.
CHP IS EGALITARIAN: To ensure social justice between different social strata in our country,
pursue justice in the distribution of wealth,
inequalities in income distribution,
Reducing imbalances in regional development are the primary goals of the CHP.
CHP IS SOLIDARIST: In the social democratic understanding of society and people, responsibility is shared and
solidarity is a requirement of this understanding of responsibility.
The CHP's understanding of solidarity is balanced and equitable income distribution,
social security for all,
protecting all the strays,
support for all those in need of protection are priority targets.
CHP IS PLURALIST: Deepening democracy in our country, where different social classes, beliefs, cultures and ethnic identities live, is a prerequisite for internal peace and development.
Libertarian Democracy
A new social contract for the establishment of liberal democracy in Turkey,
to expand the freedoms of everyone living in this country to the fullest extent
and a new constitution that protects them from the oppressive policies of governments.
The new constitution should be based on the principles of freedom, equality, social justice, democracy and secularism.
The Constitution should clearly state that respect for human rights is the foundation of the legitimacy of the state, social order and social peace.
The Constitution should recognize all human rights - civil, political, social, economic, economic and cultural - as integral
and protect them equally.
The process of drafting the new constitution is of great importance.
A democratic constitution is a constitution made through democratic means.
A democratic constitution is one that embraces all colors of society both in its content and in the process of its making.
Therefore, the new constitution should be drafted by a parliament whose legitimacy has not been damaged by the democratic shame of a ten percent electoral threshold.
The CHP believes that even in the short time remaining before the elections, changes can be made to lower the threshold.
One of the most important building blocks of a liberal democracy in Turkey is the strengthening of the parliamentary system.
The September 12 regime placed the executive in an overly powerful position vis-à-vis the legislature and the judiciary.
The legislature and the judiciary are unable to fulfill their necessary checks and balances.
Proposals such as the 'presidential system' will take this design of September 12 one step further
and open the door to one-man rule.
Further increasing the powers of the executive and neutralizing the legislature
and such practices, which strengthen the possibility of conflict between the legislature and the executive, will not bring stability,
On the contrary, it will set the stage for new crises.
Under the CHP government, the representativeness and powers of the Parliament will be increased and the
excessive powers of the executive will be limited.
Another indispensable condition of a liberal democracy is the establishment of the rule of law.
In order to guarantee the rule of law, the independence and impartiality of the judiciary must be ensured.
It has become impossible to talk about the independence of the judiciary with a High Council of Judges and Prosecutors (HSYK) chaired by the Minister of Justice, with the Undersecretary of the Ministry as a member and the majority of its members determined by lists prepared at the Ministry.
Members of the judiciary are directly or indirectly under pressure from the executive.
This picture makes all judicial decisions controversial
and damages social peace.
Under the CHP government, this situation will be changed by making the necessary reforms both in the composition of the HSYK and in the material and legal infrastructure of the security of judgeship
and the independence of the judiciary will be guaranteed.
The CHP has never accepted and will never accept the de facto limitation of the powers of the parliament and the government elected by the votes of the people by any power other than the democratic rules and institutions stipulated by law.
In this context, the CHP opposes the involvement of the armed forces in politics.
The armed forces should be under the control of civilian authority.
To this end, the CHP is embarking on a comprehensive civilianization program for Turkey.
Under CHP rule, Article 35 of the Turkish Armed Forces Internal Service Law will be amended.
The Military High Administrative Court will be abolished.
Professionalism in the military will be emphasized
and compulsory military service will be reduced to six months for all in the medium term.
Civilianization will dominate both politics and society.
In a libertarian democracy, individual rights and freedoms must be respected under all circumstances.
The rights to liberty and security of the person and respect for the private life of individuals are at the heart of this order.
Turkey's current situation in terms of these rights is dismal.
As the European Court of Human Rights (ECtHR) has recognized, detention orders in Turkey systematically violate human rights.
Arrest warrants are far from being based on legally valid grounds.
Turkish practice shows that the fact that these decisions are taken by judges does not necessarily mean that they are in accordance with the law.
Similarly, another frequently violated right is the right to respect for private life.
Illegal wiretapping and wiretapping has become the norm.
Law enforcement agencies do not address these violations
and in some cases suspicion is even focused on law enforcement agencies.
Some judges have issued mass wiretapping orders in contravention of clear provisions of the law.
Under the CHP government, these harsh practices of law enforcement and a certain section of the judiciary will be put an end to, and
citizens of the Republic of Turkey will no longer have to live in fear of 'will I be arrested if I dissent' or 'will my phones be tapped'.
Another indispensable element of libertarian democracies is freedom of thought, expression and dissemination of ideas.
There are 57 journalists imprisoned in Turkey, putting
Turkey ahead of even China and Iran.
Nearly a thousand lawsuits against journalists seeking prison sentences are still ongoing.
Media outlets that try to remain independent are intimidated with arbitrary tax fines.
Even unpublished books are subject to censorship and prosecution.
Under CHP rule, freedom of thought, expression, dissemination of expression, access to information
and all obstacles to freedom of the press will be removed.
Journalists will no longer have to fear that 'something will happen to me' while writing their articles.
No liberal democracy, no matter how well-organized its constitution, rules and institutions, can survive without the support of an organized society.
The ability of citizens to organize themselves through political parties, trade unions, professional associations and other civil society organizations, to
express their opinions freely
and to contribute effectively to the formation of political decisions are the requirements of a libertarian democracy.
There are still many obstacles to organizing in Turkey.
Both politics and civil society will be democratized under CHP rule.
Necessary amendments will be made to the Law on Political Parties and other laws to ensure that libertarian democracy prevails in these institutions as well.
The participation of all civil society organizations in decision-making processes will be recognized as a political right and a constitutional principle.
Another fundamental principle of libertarian democracy is pluralism.
Political pluralism ensures the recognition of the right to organize and represent all political groups, regardless of their voting share.
Moreover, it prepares the appropriate political ground to ensure fair competition for all political groups.
However, it requires the implementation of institutions and rules that prevent those who hold the majority from monopolizing the political sphere.
Many regulations in Turkey undermine political pluralism, such as the ten percent electoral threshold, broadly defined party bans, state subsidies that favor large parties, and obstacles that make independent candidacy difficult.
Political pluralism will be fully realized under CHP rule.
The electoral threshold will be set at a maximum of five percent.
In libertarian democracies, the principle of pluralism also applies to society.
Social differences must be recognized and protected by the legal order.
No member of a democratic society should be discriminated against on grounds such as gender, ethnicity, religion or sect.
In this sense, women are among the groups that need to be supported the most in Turkey.
Women face many problems such as violence, exclusion from education and labor force, and underrepresentation in politics.
CHP will work for the realization of equality between women and men in all areas of society.
To this end, CHP supports positive discrimination policies, including quotas, for women in all areas of social life.
The main goal of the CHP will be to solve the problems of segments of society that complain about the obstacles to social and political pluralism within the framework of full democracy.
In short, CHP will bring more freedom to Turkey, to every citizen of the Republic of Turkey.
promises more democracy.
Hand in hand with our citizens, the CHP will realize Turkey's fourth great change.
A NEW AND LIBERAL CONSTITUTION
We will implement a new and libertarian Constitution that expands and secures rights and freedoms.
In line with contemporary examples, we will draft the new Constitution with the participation and consensus of all segments of society.
To this end, we will work for the new Constitution to be drafted by a Parliament that is not scarred by the 10 percent electoral threshold.
To ensure that debates on the new Constitution take place in a free environment, we will bring the articles in criminal and political parties legislation that restrict freedom of expression in line with universal human rights law.
The new constitution will ensure the rule of law, the independence of the judiciary and the separation of powers,
guaranteeing fundamental rights and freedoms and the social state,
It will be a new 'social contract' that bases the legitimacy of the state on the protection and promotion of human rights.
We will make the principle of equal, pluralist and constitutional citizenship dominant so that all our citizens can effectively exercise their democratic rights.
Basic principles of the new Constitution; Libertarianism and pluralism,
-Equality and social justice,
-Participation,
-Priority of human dignity and universal human rights,
-Protection of human rights as the principle and limitation as the exception
, -Strengthened parliamentary system
, -Democratic rule of law based on the separation of powers, -Checks
and balances to prevent the exercise of power in violation of law and democracy, -
Full control of the armed forces by the civilian government,
- Prohibition of all forms of discrimination,
- Respect for international law,
- Equality between men and women.
FULL PROTECTION OF RIGHTS AND FREEDOMS
We will fully implement all international human rights conventions and contemporary principles and rules on fundamental rights and freedoms.
We will consider civil and political rights and economic, social and cultural rights in their entirety
and ensure equal respect for all of them.
To oversee compliance with all these rights, we will establish a National Human Rights Supervisory Authority in line with United Nations standards, led by civil society organizations working in the field of human rights.
We will resolutely oppose all forms of violence, persecution and torture against the right to life, bodily integrity, material and spiritual existence of the human being, and the violation of their dignity.
Immediate prosecution of public officials accused of torture
and we will ensure that those found guilty receive serious penalties.
We will guarantee all individual rights and freedoms, especially the right to freedom of thought, expression, information, association and respect for private life.
We will guarantee children's rights within the framework of universal principles.
We will make all social rights, especially the right to work, trade union rights, the right to education, the right to housing, the right to the environment and the right to the city, rights that the state is obliged to implement.
END OPPRESSION AND FEAR
Aimed at creating an atmosphere of fear and intimidation in society at large, and especially among the opposition, and condoned by the government,
Illegal wiretapping that violates the right to privacy,
Investigations aimed at silencing dissent,
All practices that restrict citizens' individual choices and freedoms,
All kinds of pressure on investigative journalists, such as censorship, imprisonment and defamation lawsuits,
Illegal searches and seizures,
All forms of pressure, including financial, on the media and the private sector,
We will put an end to all unlawful and oppressive practices against civil society organizations and trade unions.
Destruction of unpublished books,
the criminalization of thought,
We will pave the way for the exercise of the right to seek justice at all levels within the framework of the law.
We will recognize all democratic and peaceful reactions and actions as legitimate rights.
We will put an end to excessive violence against workers, students and others who seek their rights.
We will prevent arbitrary practices in searches, detentions and arrests.
We will end the use of detention as a means of punishment and
bring detention practices in line with universal norms.
We will ensure that the necessary criminal procedural measures are taken to protect the presumption of innocence.
FREE MEDIA AND INTERNET
All obstacles to freedom of the press
and we will remove all forms of pressure on the media.
Through a strong, independent, impartial and pluralistic media, we will enable the public to enjoy the right to information to the fullest extent.
We will put an end to arbitrary punitive measures against the media.
We will prevent monopolization in the media.
We will reorganize the media-commerce-politics relations that undermine press freedom within the framework of ethical rules and
ensure that they are free from ties of interest.
We will prevent the creation of partisan media with state resources.
We will abolish the prime minister's power to stop radio and television broadcasts, which constitutes a significant obstacle to press freedom.
We will remove the obstacles to the organization of media workers arising from laws and employer practices.
We will make TRT an administratively and financially autonomous institution independent from political powers.
We will strengthen the financial and institutional structures of local media, which are important actors of democracy.
We will remove excessive regulations on the internet, which should be an area of freedom,
and change the prohibitive mentality.
JUDICIAL REFORM
We will fully realize the rule of law and
unconditionally ensure the independence of the judiciary and the security of judges.
We will abolish the administrative subordination of judges and prosecutors to the Ministry of Justice.
We will end the civil servantization of the judiciary.
The September 12 government's distorted understanding of the law,
We will eliminate all antidemocratic institutions and practices.
We will create a fair, fast and efficient judicial system and infrastructure.
We will establish judicial police.
We will raise the quality of legal education
and improve the opportunities for practical courses.
We will introduce objective, not political, criteria for entry to the professions of judges and prosecutors.
We will remove the influence of the executive branch in exams.
We will reorganize the structure and powers of the Constitutional Court within the framework of the principle of separation of powers.
We will make it compulsory for members of the Constitutional Court appointed by the Parliament to be elected by a qualified majority.
We will narrow the jurisdiction of the military judiciary.
We will abolish the Special Authorized High Criminal Courts, which replaced the State Security Courts.
We will abolish the High Council of Judges and Prosecutors and replace it with the High Council of Judges.
That there should be no Minister of Justice and Undersecretary of Justice in the new structure
and we will ensure the secure representation of judges and prosecutors on the Council.
We will free the Forensic Medicine Institution from political influence,
restructure it and make it autonomous, fast, efficient and qualified.
We will support organizing in the judiciary.
We will put an end to practices that render judicial decisions ineffective and dysfunctional.
Increase resources for the judiciary,
We will use physical conditions and manpower efficiently and effectively.
We will establish a penal system based on human dignity.
DEMOCRATIC ELECTORAL SYSTEM AND POLITICAL PLURALISM
We will democratize the Political Parties Law.
We will ensure that the will of the people is reflected in parliament by abolishing the 10% electoral threshold that undermines the principle of justice in representation.
We will change the electoral laws so that the people, not the leaders, can elect their own MPs.
We will ensure the implementation of internal democracy and participation in the functioning and organizational structures of political parties.
In accordance with the jurisprudence of the European Court of Human Rights and the Venice Criteria, we will allow the closure of political parties in very exceptional cases.
We will remove the barrier of high application fees for independent candidates.
We will lift the propaganda bans in the Law on Political Parties and the Law on Basic Provisions of Elections and Voter Registers.
We will ensure that all political parties receive state aid according to fair and objective criteria.
By making the financing of political parties transparent, we will prevent unfair competition between parties.
We will remove the obstacles to women's direct and more active participation in political parties and politics, and
to this end, we will legalize the women's quota.
Our goal will be to ensure representation above the quota.
We will lower the voting age to 21 to ensure the participation of young people in all decision-making processes.
ORGANIZED SOCIETY
We will remove all obstacles to the right to organize and
strengthen organized civil society.
In our approach to civil society and civil society organizations: Community-centered, not state-driven;
Supportive, not restrictive;
Empowering, not hindering;
-Encouragement, not punishment;
We will be inclusive, not exclusive.
We will recognize as a constitutional right the participation of civil society in decision-making mechanisms at all levels, from the municipality to the Parliament.
We will revise the Law on Associations with an egalitarian and libertarian perspective and
eliminate all bureaucratic obstacles that restrict and complicate freedom of association.
We will add civil society education to the curriculum to strengthen the culture of organizing and
ensure that students take part in social responsibility projects.
We will increase the support provided from the public administration budget in order to provide non-governmental organizations working in the public interest with a strong and autonomous financial structure.
We will provide shared spaces, office infrastructure facilities and secretariat support to civil society organizations with limited resources or newly established civil society organizations in Civil Society Centers to be established in local governments.
Increasing women's participation in CSOs
and we will take incentive measures to ensure that they play an active role in the management of these organizations.
We will implement support processes for CSOs to make the widest possible use of national and international resources.
RESPECT FOR DIFFERENCES AND PLURALISM
We will embrace social differences with the principle of equal, pluralist and constitutional citizenship
and prevent discrimination.
We will embrace our ethnic and religious differences without discrimination and
build a Turkey of development, tolerance and peace.
We will secure the cultural rights of our citizens within the framework of pluralism
and ensure that different identities live freely.
We will promote social peace and
eliminate prejudices.
We will strengthen feelings of social solidarity and brotherhood.
It will ensure that everyone, regardless of language, religion, ethnic origin, belief, sect, gender, sexual orientation and gender identity, age and political opinion, can fully exercise all the rights that stem from being equal citizens,
we will end all forms of discrimination.
We will rapidly transpose the EU acquis on discrimination on grounds of racial or ethnic origin, religion or belief, disability, age and sexual orientation.
We will adopt an approach of social integration while respecting cultural rights.
We will ensure intercultural interaction and sharing, which is the guarantee of social peace and harmony.
EQUALITY BETWEEN WOMEN AND MEN IN EVERY FIELD
We will take all necessary legal and political steps to realize the equality of women and men in all areas of social life.
In the new Constitution, in line with Article 5 of the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women, the state will be tasked with "changing cultural stereotypes of the superiority or inferiority of one sex or the other".
We will expand positive discrimination practices to ensure equality between women and men at senior management levels in the public and private sectors.
We will make the necessary legal arrangements to ensure strong representation of women in politics, public offices, the judiciary and civil society.
We will fight discrimination against women in education, labor, politics and civil society.
We will adopt the fight against violence against women as a public policy
and address our social policies accordingly.
Violence against women to be criminalized as a serious crime
and we will punish them severely.
We will establish not a "Commission for Equal Opportunities for Women and Men" but a "Commission for Equality between Women and Men".
FULL DEMOCRACY IN THE EAST AND SOUTHEAST
It will end repression in the East and Southeast,
we will achieve social peace.
We will overcome the obstacles preventing our Kurdish citizens from living their identities by establishing a pluralist and libertarian democracy.
Through the commissions we will establish with the law, in line with international standards, we will shed light on unsolved murders
and find the missing.
By punishing those responsible, we will relieve the suffering of our people
and ensure justice.
We will offer mother tongue education to citizens who demand it.
We will open the Dersim archives.
We will remove names that remind us of the pain and trauma of the past from state institutions and barracks.
We will turn Diyarbakır Prison into a museum for social peace.
SECULARISM AND FREEDOM OF RELIGION
We will protect the principles, values and institutions of our secular and democratic Republic under all circumstances.
We will pay attention to the separation of religious affairs from politics and
put an end to the use of religion as a tool for political exploitation.
We will guarantee freedom of belief and worship for citizens of every religion, sect or belief group.
We will prevent discrimination among our citizens in terms of religious beliefs and sects.
We will realize our Alevi citizens' demand for equal citizenship in every field.
The Presidency of Religious Affairs should be sensitive to the demands of all faiths and denominations, observing religious pluralism
and we will make the necessary arrangements to ensure that it is approached with an understanding of equality.
We will remove religious culture and ethics classes from being compulsory and make
them optional in basic education and high school.
We will ensure that religious education is carried out within the framework of secularism and the principle of unity of teaching.
We will remove the obstacles preventing all religions and beliefs from opening places of worship in accordance with universal human rights principles.
We will resolutely combat discrimination, hate speech and hate crimes against our citizens of minority religions based on religion and belief.
CLEAN AND CREDIBLE POLITICS
We will see the prevention of corruption, which undermines the reputation of politics, and therefore democracy, and strikes a blow to the social legitimacy of politicians, as an important task for the protection of democracy.
We will end the use of immunity as a protective shield against ordinary crimes.
We will limit parliamentary immunity to the immunity of the rostrum.
We will ensure that all existing parliamentary immunity files are immediately transferred to the judiciary.
We will make the financing of politics transparent.
We will put an end to mercantile politics.
We will enact a Political Ethics Law.
We will make the property declarations of elected MPs and executives available to the public on the internet.
We will require the prime minister and ministers to transfer the portfolio management of their assets to a trustee for the duration of their mandate.
We will bring the scope of restrictions on accepting goods and services as gifts to the standards of Western countries.
We will make a legal arrangement so that MPs who directly or indirectly benefit directly or indirectly in the transition from one political party to another political party will lose their membership in the TBMM.
We will ensure that data on party income and expenditures are fully and accurately disclosed to the public.
We will limit and control the election expenditures of political parties and parliamentary candidates according to the norms of Western democracies.
For sustainable development...
Producing, growing, sharing, environmentally friendly economy
Turkey entered the 2010s with serious problems after suffering significant blood losses following two major crises in 2001 and 2009.
In 2009, the year of the crisis, the economy contracted by nearly 5%.
Among 150 developing and emerging economies, Turkey ranked 51st in terms of average growth performance in the 1980-2002 period, but dropped to 71st in the 2003-2010 period when the AKP was in power.
According to purchasing power parity, Turkey, which was the world's 14th largest economy in 1987 and the world's 16th largest economy in 1999 when it became a member of the G-20, remained in 16th place during the eight years of AKP rule.
The average growth rate in Turkey is low and the volatility of the growth rate is high.
Domestic savings are insufficient.
Financing growth is dependent on external resource inflows.
The contribution of employment and total factor productivity to growth is weak.
The driving force of growth is consumption financed by short-term external resources;
a significant portion of consumption is financed directly or indirectly by imports.
Unemployment in the Turkish economy is high and the level of employment is very low.
The level of education of the labor force and the quality of jobs created are poor.
Informal employment is high.
Economic and social development is not equally distributed across regions;
regional income and welfare disparities are reinforced.
Income distribution is deteriorating and
poverty is deepening.
Industry is losing ground and the
share of industry in national income is declining.
Resources in the industrial sector are rapidly shifting to sectors with low productivity potential.
In rural areas, where a quarter of our population lives and where agricultural production is carried out, hunger and poverty are increasing more rapidly than in urban areas.
During the AKP's nine years in power, growth remained below historical averages,
the competitiveness of the economy rapidly eroded,
its dependence on foreign resources increased, and
unemployment and poverty continued to be a major problem.
The growth generated by the current economic policy and strategy in Turkey is not qualified, inclusive and sustainable.
The CHP government aims for high, stable, all-sectoral, qualified and socially balanced growth.
To this end, the country's physical, financial and human resources will be mobilized
and the prosperity to be created will be shared equitably among all segments of society.
The market mechanism will be utilized to the maximum extent in the efficient use of resources,
but the regulatory and supervisory functions of the state will be strengthened against the mistakes that the markets may make.
One of the main factors that will ensure the increase in production and efficiency is human creativity and labor.
In light of this reality, CHP sees the human being not only as a factor and object of production, but also as a subject that needs to be developed, enriched, supported and made active with its social and human existence.
Putting people and human development at the center of the economy through the social state is one of the main drivers of CHP's economic program.
In the CHP's economic vision, human development and economic development go hand in hand.
Because in today's world, where international competition sharpens every year, sustainable and qualified economic growth is only possible through continuous and long-term investments in people and technology to increase creativity and production.
CHP, which wants to achieve the targeted high growth rates in Turkey through a more balanced distribution of resources, attaches special importance to employment and factor productivity, which grows through technology and human capital.
In order to ensure an increase in factor productivity and human capital, it is necessary to revive a welfare state model that puts people and production at its center.
However, the ability of this welfare state to underwrite long-term humanitarian investment policies
and it is clear that in order to reap the fruits of these investments in the long run, policies that enhance stability at the macro level must be pursued.
To be increased through financial and institutional arrangements
and will be secured
economic stability is another important link in the CHP's economic policies
and is a sine qua non for sustainable economic and human development.
The main objective of the welfare-statist economic program, which focuses on competitive, innovative and people-oriented growth, is to ensure that Turkey's growth is balanced, sustainable and environmentally friendly.
CHP's main priority is to produce and share what it produces fairly,
inclusive, high-quality, sustainable and high-growth,
is a Turkey that spreads economic activity and prosperity evenly across regions.
A CHP government that is not dependent on imports and that thrives on investment, employment and productivity growth instead of consumption fueled by short-term foreign resources,
rapidly renewing its physical, social and technological infrastructure,
An economic order with increased competitiveness in global markets will be established.
CHP adopts a state approach that sets the rules in the economy, supervises and facilitates growth, but does not interfere in the day-to-day functioning of the economy.
CHP, minimizing environmental and ecological risks, contributing to sustainable development
and adopts a green economy model to promote human development and social justice.
CHP advocates sustainable development in harmony with nature, not "development by any means necessary".
Environmental protection is not only the right of today's citizens, but also a debt to future generations.
In the 21st century, Turkey will achieve its goal of rising above the level of contemporary civilization only by making a breakthrough in information and communication technologies,
It can achieve this by realizing the great social transformation it requires and moving to the stage of the information society.
Transforming Turkey into an information society, producing modern information technologies,
effectively utilizing informatics solutions in all problematic areas of society with other sectors
and a country that has maximized its global competitiveness.
In this way, Turkey can celebrate the centenary of the Republic as one of the world's ten largest economies.
100TH ANNIVERSARY GOALS OF OUR REPUBLIC
By the Centenary of our Republic, we will achieve an average annual growth rate of 7%.
We will increase Gross Domestic Product to 2.6 trillion dollars and per capita income to 31,500 dollars.
We will ensure that per capita income reaches 85% of the EU average.
We will ensure that exports reach 650 billion dollars.
We will reduce the current account deficit to 2.5% of GDP.
We will ensure that the growth rate in Eastern and Southeastern Anatolia, which are the most backward in terms of development level, reaches an average of 9.5% per year.
We will ensure that the per capita income of Eastern and Southeastern Anatolia, which is currently only 56% of the national average, reaches 75% of the national average.
We will create an average of 800,000 jobs every year.
We will increase women's participation in the labor force to 40% and the overall participation rate to 55%.
We will reduce the unemployment rate to 6%.
STRONG SOCIAL STATE, STABLE GROWTH, COMPETITIVE ECONOMY
We will ensure that the state takes an active role in solving the problems of high unemployment, informal work, low wages, ineffective social security, inadequate health and social support systems, education and skills acquisition that lie behind poverty.
Open but resilient to external fluctuations, mobilizing the workforce,
We will shift to a new growth strategy that boosts production and domestic savings.
We believe that the growth strategy should be based on
and support employment, taking into account our priorities.
We will prioritize high value-added products and activities in traditional sectors, as well as new areas of activity with high competitiveness.
We will support the creation of new production capacities in manufacturing sectors, which have a significant share in our imports, by utilizing foreign direct investments.
In economic and social policies, we will take into account priorities in the areas of environment, water and global warming
and pursue sustainability.
Innovative, competitive and job-growing economy
A STATE APPROACH THAT IS PRODUCTIVE, COMPETITIVE AND SUPPORTS THE ECONOMY
In the light of the new trends accepted in the world, we will ensure that the state is supportive and facilitative in the field of employment and competition.
We will pave the way for the state to act as a direct investment and production actor in the elimination of regional income disparities in cases where it is not possible to benefit from the private sector.
We will make the state structure more modern and citizen-oriented.
Prevent favoritism in economic and social policy implementations,
We will emphasize transparency and creativity.
We will utilize public resources, in particular to address regional and social inequalities, to develop sectors based on new technologies, to create new jobs and to support start-ups.
We will not privatize the Ziraat Bank of Turkey and the People's Bank of Turkey, and
we will continue to support farmers and craftsmen in accordance with the general rules of banking.
EMPLOYMENT MOBILIZATION
Under CHP rule, we will ensure that the economy creates 800 thousand new jobs every year.
We will raise the overall labor force participation rate to 55% and women's participation in the labor force to 40%.
We will ensure that the public sector plays an active role in job creation.
We will strengthen the information provision function of the public sector to ensure that job opportunities are quickly and widely known by job seekers.
We will promote the employment of women in public service and the appointment of women to management positions.
Reducing the problem of informal employment by reducing excessive burdens that encourage informality,
by encouraging formalization
and we will solve it by focusing on supervision.
We will increase the employment opportunities of disabled citizens in the public sector.
We will appoint vacancies quickly.
We will reduce employment losses by properly managing the transition of the agricultural workforce to other fields and the transformation in the service sector.
EFFECTIVE FIGHT AGAINST UNEMPLOYMENT
We will rapidly reduce the unemployment rate with high growth led by dynamic service sectors that create employment, primarily industry, but also knowledge-intensive strategic services, logistics production-support and cultural industries.
We will establish national science, technology and industrial policies and
ensure the development of innovation-based sectors.
Permanently improve employment levels by creating new jobs,
Increasing labor force equipping,
reducing public burdens on employment
and prioritize improving the investment climate.
PRIORITY AND INCENTIVES FOR KNOWLEDGE-BASED SECTORS
Our goal is for Turkey to become a country that produces, not consumes, information technologies.
We will increase the share of knowledge-based activities such as education, R&D, high-tech production and knowledge-intensive economic services in the economy.
We will make the National Innovation System a comprehensive system that will be effective at all stages and segments of economic activities.
We will strengthen public investments and public-private sector cooperation in generic technologies and defense industry.
We will accelerate efforts to create a reverse brain drain and
create the infrastructure that will enable scientists and experts of Turkish origin abroad to participate in high-tech projects.
BREAKTHROUGH IN R&D AND INNOVATION STUDIES
We will expand the incentives for R&D activities so that SMEs can benefit from them.
We will increase the share of Turkey's R&D expenditures in GDP to the EU standard of 3%.
We will improve university-industry cooperation and
pave the way for SMEs to benefit from this cooperation.
We will provide consultancy services to all companies through expert committees to be established in the fields of product and service development, production, marketing and distribution.
We will implement science and technology policies that will minimize the brain drain and reverse it over time.
FULL SUPPORT TO THE IT SECTOR: TURKEY, EUROPE'S IT AND SOFTWARE BASEÖ
We will organize annual Informatics Councils in different parts of the world and in our country to increase our competitiveness in the new economy based on knowledge and intelligence.
We will create technopolises in locations with appropriate infrastructure and human resources, and technoparks focused on strategic areas, especially software.
Technocities will train young people in entrepreneurship
We will establish entrepreneurship support units that will guide and guide entrepreneurs.
We will create a national fund that will support techno-entrepreneurship like seed capital or start-up funds.
We will create awareness of the use of domestic software in our country, especially in public institutions,
and take the necessary incentive measures.
We will give importance to training intermediate staff in the field of informatics.
We will create jobs through accelerated programs, especially for unemployed university graduates.
We will support the information technologies and communication sector by minimizing indirect taxes such as VAT and the special communication tax, which does not exist in any country in the world, and by paving the way for software exports.
We will take the necessary measures to open the information technologies and communication sector and the electronic communication field to full and real competition.
INFORMATION REFORM
We see IT as the foundation of social development, democracy and freedoms.
We will realize an information reform that ensures holistic transformation in many areas such as education, culture, infrastructure, production of goods and services in the private and public sectors, and legal regulations.
We will define the information technologies and communication sector, especially software, as a strategic sector.
We will improve competitiveness, innovation and R&D activities through university-industry-government cooperation and coordination.
We will restructure e-government applications with a citizen-oriented approach.
We will increase the efficiency of work in public institutions,
ensure data sharing, and
save our citizens from the problems caused by duplication of work and data.
We will implement large-scale public IT projects that will mobilize all segments of society, from local governments to NGOs, from small-medium sized local companies to national companies, and create new business areas and employment.
INFORMATION INFRASTRUCTURE: COMPUTERS AND INTERNET FOR ALL
We will invest in the necessary infrastructure to provide standard broadband internet access to all segments of society at the lowest possible cost.
We will make the necessary arrangements for disadvantaged segments of society to benefit from Internet and computer services free of charge.
We will provide the necessary incentives for all students to have access to computers and the internet in and out of school.
LEGAL REGULATIONS IN THE FIELD OF INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY
We will establish the Ministry of Information and Communication Technologies, which will assume direct political responsibility for the issue.
We will abolish Law No. 5651 on "Regulation of Publications on the Internet and Combating Crimes Committed Through These Publications".
Instead, we will introduce a new legal arrangement in line with international democratic standards.
Law No. 5746 on Supporting Research and Development Activities will be expanded to include small and medium-sized information and communication companies.
We will amend Law No. 4734 on Public Procurement to meet the speed and comprehensiveness required in the procurement of information and communication related products and services.
Law No. 5846 on Intellectual and Artistic Works will be updated to protect the copyrights of software producers and ensure the effective use of software products.
Law No. 5809 on Electronic Communications will be amended to ensure full and real competition.
TELEPHONE AND INTERNET SERVICES
We will create full competition in the field of electronic communications and rapidly implement a project that will enable our citizens to buy telephone and internet services at 20% cheaper prices.
We will ensure that our citizens have access to telephone and internet services from anywhere in our country.
Citizens will be able to receive telephone and internet services from the operator of their choice,
to easily port their landline numbers
and enable them to easily change their service provider
SUPPORT FOR INDUSTRY AND INDUSTRIALISTS
We will base industrialization and incentive policies on a comprehensive "Industrial Inventory" study.
We will establish an incentive system that creates employment, accelerates technological development, reduces regional development differences, and ensures development in one region without causing contraction in the other.
We will develop organized industrial zones, small industrial estates, technoparks and technopolis applications that will enable companies to cluster on a sectoral and regional basis.
We will encourage the establishment of mergers and strategic partnerships to enable firms to benefit from economies of scale and scope.
We will reduce industrialists' energy, transportation and communication costs to a level that supports their competitiveness.
We will create an effective Public Information System.
Inefficient allocation of resources to a small number of sectors
and prevent the creation of idle capacities.
In order to improve the investment environment, we will ease the burdens on "market entry and exit" and
reduce the number of transactions.
We will support the consideration of corporate social responsibility, human and environmental factors in industrialization.
THE DRIVING FORCE OF COMPETITION IN THE ECONOMY: SMES
We will create a favorable business environment for entrepreneurs and family businesses to thrive.
Strengthening the capacity of eligible SMEs to transform knowledge into products,
develop technology-intensive products and production methods,
so that they can increase their external competitiveness.
We will prepare SMEs as effective actors in the global competitive environment.
We will guide SMEs to see and seize opportunities in emerging environmental policy issues such as renewable energy and climate change prevention, which are developing in the world and in our country.
We will launch initiatives to provide visa facilitation for SMEs going to developed countries for commercial purposes.
We will support the participation of SMEs in fairs that will contribute to the promotion of their goods in foreign markets with a special incentive system.
ZERO INTEREST LOANS AND TECHNOLOGY SUPPORT FOR SMES
We will provide SMEs with interest-free business loans equal to the amount of taxes and insurance premiums they pay.
We will make the Credit Guarantee Fund for SMEs more effective.
We will aim to rapidly increase the credit facilities provided to SMEs through new credit and financing methods.
We will transform HALKBANK into a specialized bank for SMEs and tradesmen.
We will activate institutions, especially KOSGEB, that provide research, technology, financing, marketing, sales, project management, certification and brand creation consultancy for SMEs.
We will ensure that R&D, technology and innovation activities that SMEs cannot carry out with their own assets are carried out with the support of universities and the state.
We will increase the effectiveness of Technology Development Zones, Technology Development Centers (TEKMER) and Business Development Centers (İŞGEM).
We will encourage the merger of SMEs operating in the same line of business in certain sectors in order to share and improve technological facilities and benefit from economies of scale
, and we will support them to gain external competitiveness.
We will give a second chance to businesses that have been forced to go bankrupt due to the systemic crisis.
SUPPORT FOR ENTREPRENEURSHIP
In order to create new jobs, we will support entrepreneurs who start new businesses and open new business areas with special loans.
We will expand the implementation of Venture Capital.
We will pave the way for capitalless entrepreneurs to create jobs.
We will provide Business Start-up Loans and Marketing Support to women who want to transform their personal skills into entrepreneurship.
We will expand credit opportunities for self-employed women entrepreneurs.
We will provide project and consultancy services through TÜBİTAK and KOSGEB to young people who want to start a business with the Genç İş Kur Program
and financial support.
An economy with financial and institutional stability
INDEPENDENT REVENUE ADMINISTRATION, SOUND FISCAL POLICY
We will pay attention to the sustainability of public debt, we
will implement a rule-based fiscal policy.
We will keep the public debt stock to GDP ratio below 40%.
We will make arrangements to ensure the independence of the Revenue Administration, its equal distance to all taxpayers and its objectivity.
We will only apply financial amnesties exceptionally when necessitated by systemic crises and will
not make them a subject of political exploitation.
We will redirect public expenditures to areas that boost economic growth, employment and productivity.
We will base the financing of expenditures on non-borrowing resources.
TRANSPARENT MONETARY POLICY
The main objective of monetary policy is to achieve price stability.
In achieving this target, we will be careful not to put at risk the determinants of growth, employment, competitiveness and financial stability, in other words, the sustainability of price stability.
We will take steps to increase the transparency of monetary policy under inflation targeting.
We will make arrangements to ensure that the minutes of monetary policy meetings are more detailed and that the votes of the members are made public.
In line with the independence of the Central Bank, we will make arrangements to strengthen its accountability within the framework of international practices.
REGULATORY FRAMEWORK FOR FINANCIAL STABILITY
We will prevent bubbles in asset markets, particularly in foreign exchange markets, and the vulnerabilities they cause in the real economy through macroprudential policies that take into account the whole system, in addition to micro-prudential policies that take into account the soundness of individual elements of the financial system.
We will establish a Financial Stability Board that will enable the Central Bank, the Banking Regulation and Supervision Agency, the Capital Markets Board, the Capital Markets Board, the Undersecretariat of Treasury and the Ministry of Finance to act together in order to prevent disruptions in all or part of the financial system from causing fluctuations in the real economy.
PUBLIC REFORM AND THE NEW INSTITUTIONAL STRUCTURES IT WILL CREATE
We will definitely realize public sector reform.
We will ensure efficiency, transparency and coordination among institutions in public administration.
We will clearly define the centers of tasks and responsibilities.
We will reduce hierarchical levels to ensure that institutions work effectively and quickly.
We will definitely implement regulations that will reduce transaction costs by simplifying the transactions of our citizens in their relations with the state.
We will minimize the number of bureaucratic procedures by ensuring that social security premiums are collected by the Revenue Administration.
We will transform the Social Security Institution into an institution that only provides social security services.
We will collect data on all transactions of citizens and businesses with the state in a single Data Center.
We will establish the Financial Stability Board to ensure coordination among institutions that are important in managing systemic risks in financial markets.
We will establish a Final Accounts Commission to ensure that Parliament effectively fulfills its oversight role.
We will give the chairmanship of the commission to a member of the main opposition party.
In order to eliminate the disorganization in incentive practices, we will ensure that these practices are gathered under a single institution.
In this framework, we will establish the Undersecretariat for Incentive Implementation.
We will establish a Land Acquisition Office to provide land to landless or landless peasants.
We will restructure the Ministry of Agriculture.
We will establish the Agricultural Markets Regulation and Support Agency.
We will establish the General Directorate of Support for Livestock and Dairy Products to revive the collapsed livestock sector in Turkey.
We will establish the General Directorate of Fisheries to solve the problems of our fisheries.
We will establish a Research Center on Climate Change and Development.
SMMM AND CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANT LAW TO BE AMENDED
We will change the "proportional representation" system applied in the election of the bodies of CPA and CPA Chambers and the supreme organization TÜRMOB.
We will remove the word "free" from the titles of "Certified Public Accountant" and "Certified Public Accountant Financial Advisor", which no longer has any meaning.
We will prevent the Ministry of Finance from auditing the activities and financial transactions of the Chambers and Union bodies with unlimited authority; we
will limit the direct intervention of the ministry in the CPA exam.
We will ensure that the Ministry of Finance publishes the Minimum Wage Tariff for professionals on time every year.
We will abolish the special irregularity penalty imposed on the notification of goods and services purchased and sold by taxpayers within one month.
An economy that has set the course of its growth with strong welfare state priorities
UNEMPLOYMENT FUND FOR THE UNEMPLOYED
We will make sure that the Unemployment Insurance Fund is used for its intended purpose.
We will increase the representation of social partners in the management of the unemployment fund
and autonomize its management.
We will ease the conditions for benefiting from the unemployment fund.
We will determine the unemployment benefit by taking into account the minimum standard of living (family, children, housing, transportation and nutrition).
We will ensure transparent and effective supervision of the unemployment fund.
WOMEN HAVE THE RIGHT TO WORK TOO
We will fight against all forms of discrimination against women in the world of work.
By the 100th anniversary of the Republic, we will ensure that the labor force participation rate of women reaches 40%.
We will remove barriers to women's participation in working life by improving child, elderly and patient care services.
We will ensure that equal criteria are used in hiring and promotion evaluations.
Positive discrimination will be applied to women in public sector entrance examinations and in their appointment to managerial positions,
we will introduce principled quotas.
We will make incentive arrangements to increase women's employment in the private sector.
We will formalize areas where women work intensively, such as agriculture, domestic services and working from home,
and create new insurance programs to cover them under social security.
We will increase credit opportunities for entrepreneurial women and
provide them with design, consultancy and marketing support.
We will ensure that women entrepreneurs primarily benefit from SME supports.
We will support and diversify women's cooperatives.
MORE JOBS FOR YOUNG PEOPLE
Youth Employment Growth will be the main axis of our employment policies.
We will encourage young people's entrepreneurial endeavors.
By supporting the ideas and projects of entrepreneurial young people, we will make it easier for them to enter business life.
We will expand career guidance and counseling services for young people.
INDIRECT TAXES WILL BE REDUCED, EVERYONE WILL BE TAXED ACCORDING TO THEIR ABILITY
We will use tax as the main source of financing public expenditures.
Citizens will know where their taxes are spent.
In the tax returns, we will give the citizens an account of where their taxes were spent in the previous year.
We will minimize tax losses and evasion and
fight against informality.
We will change the indirect tax-dominated structure, which negatively affects the competitiveness of the economy and is unfair, with a medium-term approach.
We will differentiate income tax tariffs and rates,
lower the tax burden of wage earners, and
tax everyone and every sector according to their power.
SUPPORT FOR CONSUMERS
Increasing the purchasing power of the consumer
and we will take urgent economic and social measures to alleviate poverty.
We will implement a national growth model in which the consumer benefits equitably from the increase in welfare.
We will ensure that consumers are compensated for the damages they have suffered through swift, fair, cheap and easy methods.
We will provide consultancy services to resolve consumer grievances.
We will implement world quality assurance systems in service and production areas to protect the health and safety of consumers.
By improving the international competition conditions of the private sector, we will ensure the provision of cheap and quality services to consumers.
We will support consumer rights organizations.
We will ensure that the consumer becomes more active through these organizations.
We will ensure that the rights of consumers to be informed, heard and represented are implemented without exception.
We will take measures to prevent deceptive, misleading and abusive promotions.
We will ensure that the Law on the Protection of Consumer Rights is fully implemented by authorized public institutions.
Environmentally friendly economy that emphasizes regional, sectoral and sustainable development
RURAL DEVELOPMENT
We will create industrial facilities to process what is produced close to the raw materials.
We will also develop non-agricultural activities in rural areas and
increase the income level of rural people through rural development practices.
This will reduce poverty and unemployment,
alleviate migration-related problems.
We will give the 2B areas in rural areas that have lost their forest status to forest villagers engaged in agriculture.
We will clear mined lands and make them available to local farmers.
We will develop farmer agriculture and ecological agriculture.
We will create an organized and highly competitive agricultural structure and
ensure stability in agricultural markets.
We will pay special attention to improving the living standards of women working in agriculture and mobile and temporary agricultural workers.
We will restructure the labor and social security practices of agricultural workers.
We will develop direct marketing channels from producers to consumers and
ensure that affordable and healthy food reaches the consumer table.
We will popularize agricultural insurance.
We will cover the entire insurance premium of small producers as the state.
SUPPORT FOR ARTISANS
We will increase loans to artisans 5 times.
We will increase the loan amount of Surety Cooperatives.
We will provide low-interest loans to tradesmen with Halkbank.
We will provide tradesmen with zero-interest loans equal to the amount of taxes and insurance premiums they pay for one year.
We will increase KOSGEB's project-based support.
We will give incentives to those who need them, not those who can afford them.
We will reduce the income tax rate of artisans by 5 points.
We will ensure that tradesmen's expenses can be deducted from tax.
We will abolish the Social Security Support Premium paid by tradesmen.
We will waive SCT for taxi tradesmen's transition to vehicles with security cabs for one time only.
We will completely end pirate taxi driving.
We will provide tax reductions to cluster companies such as purchasing, marketing and logistics established by tradesmen.
We will enact a hypermarket law similar to those in European Union countries that protects producers, SMEs and tradesmen.
We will protect the market traders and reorganize the law on the market.
We will establish Tradesmen Desks in the municipalities and finalize the works of the tradesmen quickly.
We will ensure that transportation tradesmen are represented in UKOME.
We will give a discount on diesel fuel for truckers.
A NEW SELF-SUFFICIENT TURKEY IN AGRICULTURE
It will support our farmers and production potential in agriculture,
will save our country from being dependent on imports,
will increase the welfare of our farmers,
We will pursue a people-oriented and nature-friendly policy.
We will realize a radical agricultural reform by considering agriculture as a priority strategic sector.
We will rapidly complete agricultural infrastructure investments.
By 2023, we will consolidate 110 million acres of land and
invest in 4 million acres of irrigation.
We will support the widespread use of advanced greenhouse techniques, the rational use of seeds, fertilizers, pesticides and other inputs that increase productivity and the improvement of quality, and we will
provide the agricultural sector with a modern management structure.
We will produce high-yielding and high quality seeds and breeding animals and distribute them to our farmers, and
save our producers from being dependent on foreign countries.
Increase domestic production in agriculture and livestock,
We will reduce imports.
With rational planning in production, we will turn our country into a country that sells goods abroad in a short time.
We will establish special agricultural techno-centers to get rid of foreign dependence in agricultural technologies, and
ensure that public, private sector and universities work in cooperation in these centers.
We will engage in high value-added, safe and high quality production to capture a larger share of the world's total export market.
We will develop agriculture-based industries and
establish Small Scale Agricultural Industrial Sites, Organized Agricultural Zones and Organized Agricultural Industrial Zones.
We will establish a hazelnut exchange in the Black Sea.
We will put Fiskobirlik back on its feet.
We will be a friend of hazelnut producers.
FULL SUPPORT FOR ANIMAL HUSBANDRY
We will stop the collapse of animal husbandry in Turkey.
We will end import policies that kill production.
With the right animal husbandry policies, we will increase the number of ovine and bovine animals and
increase productivity through breeding activities.
We will encourage plant production to meet the need for roughage and compound feed domestically, and
maintain the appropriate parity between feed prices and milk and meat prices.
We will improve animal health measures and
eliminate animal diseases.
We will expand Animal Health Insurance.
We will develop and expand milk and meat processing facilities.
In areas where the private sector does not enter, we will carry out these works through the public sector.
We will support livestock projects with favorable interest loans.
We will streamline contract chicken production to improve poultry farming.
We will increase export support for chicken.
We will support and develop fisheries and all kinds of aquaculture production, taking into account the balance between conservation and utilization.
FARMERS EXEMPT FROM TAX BURDEN
We will reduce the high costs of inputs used in agricultural production such as seeds, fertilizers, diesel, pesticides and electricity.
In order to support agriculture and farmers, we will abolish SCT and VAT on diesel and reduce the price of diesel to 1.5 TL.
We will support farmers strongly by easing the tax burden on other inputs.
CONTEMPORARY TOURISM POLICY
We will create a sustainable tourism sector that spans all four seasons and all potential regions of the country.
We will increase the sector's external competitiveness by branding unique tourism products without being captive to cheap pricing policies.
Environmental sensitivity in tourism, protection of our natural and cultural values,
We will emphasize the most efficient use of resources.
We will provide incentives for investments in developing tourism regions to ensure a balanced distribution of tourism supply across the country.
We will directly support local tour operators to attract more tourists from abroad.
We will reorganize the labor law for travel agencies.
We will give the authority to audit travel agencies to TÜRSAB.
Umrah and Hajj services will be carried out exclusively by travel agencies under the supervision of the Directorate of Religious Affairs.
We will establish the conditions for tourism certificates together with the ministry and sector organizations.
We will ensure that all businesses have a standardized certificate.
We will abolish the Tourism Infrastructure Unions due to the flaws in their functioning.
We will establish a new coordination unit with a predominance of sector organizations.
TOURISM FROM MOUNTAINS TO SEAS
We will provide infrastructure and credit support to highlight the unique tourism potential of each region.
We will establish infrastructure and facilities to increase the potential of winter tourism.
We will transform festivals and fairs into important elements of national tourism and
provide special support for congress tourism.
We will provide incentives for investments in spas and hydrotherapy centers for thermal tourism and facilities for health tourism.
We will reduce fees and taxes to increase the competitiveness of yacht and ship companies, ports and berthing places.
We will reorganize our ports to be used for tourism purposes.
We will develop incentive projects to support the yacht and ship production sector for tourism.
Within two years, we will regulate the zoning plans of all our coastal areas with environmental sensitivity.
Under the coordination of the Ministry of Culture and Tourism, we will restructure national and regional promotion.
We will formulate the promotion strategy together with tourism organizations, chambers and local administrations.
TRAINING HAND IN HAND WITH THE SECTOR
For tourism training to be effective, we will ensure that local governments, chambers and tourism organizations are involved in the training.
We will restructure our educational institutions with the aim of diversifying tourism.
We will make the necessary arrangements for our college and university students to work in the tourism sector while studying.
SUPPORT FOR DOMESTIC TOURISM
We will remove all laws and regulations that make it difficult for the hospitality sector.
We will reduce the costs of the hospitality sector by supporting cheap energy production.
We will end the high VAT and SCT burden that weighs down the service sector.
We will provide incentives to guide and support small businesses in the sector.
We will make "low season" reductions in workers' insurance premiums.
We will provide all public employees with a vacation subsidy of half of their monthly salary once a year, provided that they spend their vacation in a certified enterprise.
We will increase the capacity of stable customers in domestic tourism with the implementation of a staggered vacation period for schools.
We will give the holiday and education facilities belonging to public institutions in tourism regions to sectoral organizations.
We will make the necessary arrangements and investments for our disabled citizens to have a trouble-free holiday.
NATIONAL MARITIME POLICY
We will prepare a coastal master plan covering all components of the sector in order to prevent the wrong and indiscriminate use of our country's coasts and to develop maritime sector in a planned, efficient and environmentally friendly manner.
We will ensure that deep port capacity, which is critical for the supply of inputs to industry and our exports, becomes sufficient.
We will support the private sector in establishing the necessary logistics infrastructure, including port leasing in key foreign markets, to ensure access to foreign markets at low cost and in a short time.
We will encourage maritime transportation and increase the share of maritime routes in freight and passenger transportation.
We will remove obstacles to shipyard investments in Turkey, which is surrounded by sea on three sides.
It will ensure occupational safety in the growing shipyard sector,
We will put an end to work accidents and deaths.
PUBLIC-PRIVATE PARTNERSHIP IN ENERGY, PRIORITIZING RENEWABLE RESOURCES
that prioritizes our domestic resources.
We will adopt an environmentally sensitive and people-oriented energy policy
As well as the sustainable development of our country,
The well-being and right to life of our citizens will be our main goal.
We will meet the electrical energy required for an average annual growth rate of 7% by maximizing the utilization of domestic resources through private-public and public-private partnerships.
We will ensure that investments are made in a timely manner and with environmentally friendly technologies, in line with energy planning in the public interest.
Using renewable energy sources such as solar and wind with environmentally friendly technologies
and reduce external dependency by increasing energy efficiency.
We will ensure our security of supply by diversifying energy sources and importing countries, and by providing sufficient, uninterrupted, high quality, reliable, clean, timely and affordable energy.
We will realize the infrastructure and industrial facility investments necessary for Turkey to become a critical energy transit and terminal country in its region.
We will ensure that natural resources, minerals and water resources are utilized in the most efficient manner in the national interest and for the benefit of society, within the framework of economic criteria and the principle of environmental sensitivity.
NUCLEAR TECHNOLOGY
We will approach the issue of nuclear energy with universal responsibility and a sensitivity that considers not only the present but also future generations.
Within the framework of a national strategy, we will pursue a nuclear policy focused on the next generation of nuclear reactors, which are expected to reduce costs and increase operational safety, and in which we will have a say at every stage from technology production to waste management.
In nuclear technology, we will focus on new generation reactors, taking into account the highest safety criteria, and we will carry out studies involving technology transfer.
We will leave the decision on building a nuclear power plant in Akkuyu to the people and
hold a referendum on the issue.
ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY PRODUCTION
We will implement effective financial and managerial incentive mechanisms to establish an environmentally friendly production approach without reducing the international competitiveness of our investors.
We will increase public investments and incentives to maximize the use of Turkey's renewable energy potential.
We will encourage the use of environmentally friendly production technologies in public tenders and the incentive system.
We will repeal exceptions to environmental protection provisions in public procurement legislation.
We will provide R&D support through TÜBİTAK and other relevant institutions to support the production of environmental technology products with high economic potential in Turkey.
ENVIRONMENTAL POLLUTION AND WASTE MANAGEMENT
We will develop measures to prevent pollution at source
and ensure waste recovery.
We will raise consumer awareness on waste segregation
and support recycling practices with economic measures.
We will make those who use and pollute pay for environmental pollution.
But we will not let paying the price become a permanent right to pollute.
We will increase the number of waste water and solid waste disposal facilities to protect the urban and rural environment.
We will prioritize measures to reduce air pollution.
Instead of poor quality coal distributed with public funds, we will clean our air by providing free natural gas to citizens in need.
We will take legal and administrative measures to prevent visual pollution and noise pollution that adversely affect the quality of life of urban residents.
ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT
We will handle Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) with care and transparency, not as a formality, but as a requirement of a human and environmentally sensitive approach.
Alongside the EIA, we will ensure that a comprehensive Social Impact Assessment is conducted.
We will give importance and priority to strategic EIA studies.
MANAGEMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES
We will put an end to the use of our natural resources, which are the common asset of our people, for commercial rent as a result of corruption and mismanagement.
We will adopt the approach that human beings are part of the ecological balance, not its owner.
We will implement long-term plans for the protection and development of our increasingly strategically important water resources.
We will support the dissemination of awareness-raising activities for the effective and sustainable use of water.
We will allocate the necessary resources to combat erosion, which is rapidly destroying our fertile soils.
CLIMATE CHANGE
We will ensure that the fight against climate change is taken into account in all policies.
We will prepare the National Climate Change Strategy Document, which will examine the opportunities and threats that climate change will create for Turkey, particularly in the agriculture and tourism sectors, and develop adaptation strategies.
In order to combat global warming, we will emphasize the use of public transportation by sea and railways.
We will make it compulsory to upgrade the combustion technologies in thermal power plants, which seriously threaten the health of our citizens with the air pollution they create, to EU standards.
We will ensure the implementation of low carbon, high efficiency technologies.
We will support practices that save energy and water.
We will expand the use of clean energy sources such as wind, solar and geothermal.
A strong Turkey that produces, spreads prosperity to its people
In CHP government; rapidly increasing production in sectors open to competition,
Mobilizing all of its physical and human resources,
Based on efficiency,
has an economic structure that creates added value and employment,
The state acts within the framework of the principles of transparency and accountability,
Citizen rights and guarantees are at the forefront,
Employers are not subject to government arbitrariness and threats,
We promise a Turkey where the fight against poverty and unfair income distribution is a priority.
- For social justice and a decent life...
Equality and social solidarity
Turkey has not achieved a level of social and human development parallel to its economic strength.
Our country, which is emphasized to be among the 20 largest economies in the world, ranks among the last in many development assessments, especially in human development rankings.
Income distribution in Turkey is rapidly deteriorating and
poverty is deepening.
Despite favorable global economic developments, the relative poverty rate, which is based on the expenditures of our citizens to meet their basic needs, has increased during the AKP rule, rather than decreasing.
In 2009, the expenditure-based relative poverty rate rose to 15.1 percent from 14.7 percent in 2002.
The way in which social assistance is provided to families in Turkey undermines the dignity of citizens.
Social assistance does not ensure that those in need become self-sufficient.
The current system is not effective in combating social exclusion
and has not been successful in increasing labor market participation.
Social assistance is distributed unregulated and irregularly by a large number of institutions.
There is no coordination between institutions, nor is there a common database to monitor aid from a single source.
Objective criteria are not used to determine how and to whom aid is provided, and
much aid, such as food, clothing and coal, is provided indiscriminately.
The procurement and distribution of relief items is often characterized by excessive and irregular expenditures and corruption.
As a result, families who do not deserve assistance may be eligible for assistance, while those who are poor and do not directly apply to the relevant social assistance institutions do not receive assistance.
Families in real need of assistance are seen as "poor" and "needy" in their social environment
and this approach hurts them.
The CHP's main priority is to establish an order in which our citizens can live justly, honorably and humanely without worrying about the future.
CHP is a party that guarantees the freedom of its citizens,
ensuring equality and justice in all areas of social life,
is determined to build a strong social state based on equality of opportunity.
A decent life is the most fundamental right of every citizen.
A humane life can only be achieved when social welfare, happiness and income are equally shared,
This can only be possible in a system where all citizens receive an equal share of education and health services.
Eradicating poverty is among the fundamental duties and responsibilities of the state.
It should be the primary objective of the social state of law to prepare the necessary conditions for the development of the material and moral existence of citizens.
Because "social" means "related to society"; it
means "for the people".
The social democratic Republican People's Party prioritizes the creation of a strong social state in Turkey above all other goals.
The social state aims to ensure that all citizens live as independent and free human beings.
The social state guarantees the labor and bread of the people.
The social state ensures equality between citizens and justice for the whole society.
The social state strengthens social solidarity by providing equal opportunities.
The social balance necessary to preserve political and economic independence can be achieved through a strong welfare state.
Family Insurance aims to protect the family, the smallest unit of society.
Because when families are not left without food or work, it means that the whole society is protected.
The Family Insurance program, which the CHP wants to implement with great determination, is a very important step in the process of building a strong social state in Turkey.
CHP will develop a modern social security system and social protection network with Family Insurance.
Family Insurance aims to free every citizen from all forms of marginalization and eradicate poverty, regardless of faith or origin.
With Family Insurance, our citizens will not be dependent on anyone,
will live as independent, free and equal individuals.
A social support approach that guarantees the dignity of the individual and the family through objective criteria is the main starting point of the Family Insurance scheme.
CHP considers the realization of social justice that covers all segments of society as its main priority.
To this end, it is aware of the importance of developing special social support programs for social groups with fewer opportunities.
In this context, the CHP focuses its social policies especially on women, children, youth, pensioners, the disabled and the elderly.
It mobilizes the social state with all its power to ensure that these groups benefit equally from opportunities and services.
CHP believes that equality between men and women is an indisputable prerequisite for democracy and socio-economic development.
Aware that it is impossible to be a modern country without achieving gender equality, it attaches special importance to programs to empower women.
CHP sees the Family Insurance program as a fundamental step towards women's empowerment and full participation in social life.
Likewise, to implement policies that focus on women's participation in education, labor markets and politics,
is determined to save Turkey from this shame by effectively combating violence against women.
CHP recognizes that children's right to life, healthy development and good nutrition must be guaranteed in order to eliminate social inequalities.
Providing equal opportunities to all citizens at the beginning of their lives and
minimizing the impact of conditions such as the socio-economic status of the family or place of birth on children's access to life opportunities as much as possible is a sine qua non of CHP's goal of a "better society".
Economic, physical and social investments to enable children to complete their physical, emotional and intellectual development will go a long way in combating social inequalities.
One of the primary goals of the CHP is to provide young people with every opportunity to live their youth in public and private life.
CHP is free from the pressures of young people,
where they can develop their personalities freely,
prepare all kinds of environments where they can use their creativity
and is committed to bringing young people under the full protection of the welfare state so that they can overcome the economic obstacles that stand in their way.
The CHP's approach to youth will take into account all young people living in Turkey from different backgrounds, and will
recognize the "invisible youth", especially girls at home and young people who work and study.
CHP will not give up on a single young person in Turkey and will take
concrete steps to provide equal opportunities for all young people in education, employment, politics, culture, arts and sports, in short, in all areas of social life.
Our retirees are the citizens who worked, produced, sweat hard, paid taxes to this country, paid premiums for their retirement and should be duly compensated for this when they retire.
CHP aims to improve the material conditions of our pensioners through a rational, efficient and effective social security system.
and will ensure that arrangements to facilitate their lives are put into practice under the umbrella of the social state.
For this purpose, it will ensure that pensioners receive a share of the increase in national income and that the adjustment law is enacted quickly.
One of the measures of a country's development is the social state services it provides to individuals with special needs.
Provision and dissemination of education and rehabilitation, vocational training and employment, care and protection services for persons with disabilities are among the basic duties of the social state.
With this awareness, CHP improves opportunities for our citizens with disabilities.
and is committed to increasing its access to all areas of social life.
In our country, where the elderly population is increasing rapidly, it is inevitable to develop comprehensive and feasible policies for our citizens to lead a quality life in their old age.
Ensuring that our elderly live a quality life as dignified, independent citizens without being dependent on anyone, including their families, is among the CHP's priority goals.
As a requirement of the social state, CHP will provide all protective social services and social supports that embrace the elderly and will
prevent practices that exclude the elderly in all areas of social life.
Preventing poverty and inequalities is a process with important human, economic and political consequences for society.
Democracy, economic and social development can only be realized through free individuals with more choices and opportunities.
At the same time, the most important goal of development is the liberation of individuals and greater opportunities.
The freedom of individuals is determined not only by political and civil rights, but also by social and economic arrangements in society.
Our goal is to strengthen feelings of social solidarity, citizenship, brotherhood and national unity,
is a strong Turkey where all citizens have equal opportunities.
Social state as a guarantee of citizenship rights
By introducing Family Insurance, we will strengthen the social state and
end poverty.
We will move from the concept and practice of 'needy citizens receiving aid' to 'entitled citizens'.
We will prioritize public social expenditures to fight poverty and
offer social support as a right of citizenship, not a favor.
It will not expose the poverty of our citizens,
We will not allow poverty to be used for political exploitation.
All our citizens will be under the guarantee of the Social State from birth to death.
We will provide basic services such as education, health and minimum social security, which we see as a civil right, without discrimination.
We will eliminate regional disparities in access to public services.
We will utilize information and communication technologies to make the state-citizen relationship faster and more reliable in multiple ways.
EQUALITY IN EVERY FIELD
Ensure equal opportunities for our citizens in every field
and we will treat them equally.
We will ensure equality of opportunity and opportunity in education, we
will not exclude any child from the education system.
We will rapidly eliminate income inequalities and
ensure social justice among different layers of society.
We will apply positive discrimination to disadvantaged groups.
We will implement regional development programs to reduce regional disparities in development.
FULL SOCIAL SECURITY
We will strengthen the National Social Security System, which protects all workers throughout their lives against risks such as unemployment, illness, maternity, old age, disability, death, occupational accidents and diseases, and the need for care and protection.
We will prepare a new social security basic law with the cooperation and consensus of all social stakeholders.
We will provide timely, adequate, equitable and high quality health care for all.
We will continue to improve the Green Card scheme.
Family Insurance
INSTITUTIONAL AND EFFECTIVE FIGHT AGAINST POVERTY
With Family Insurance: No more precarious citizens and poor families
Poverty will end
-Our children, women, elderly and disabled will be protected and empowered
Education and health services will be accessible to all
Social solidarity and harmony will improve
Informality in employment will decrease
Individual and democracy will be strengthened
First of all, prepare a poverty inventory
and social support to those in real need.
We will make "family insurance" payments to every household with income below the minimum level according to their poverty level.
This payment will not be less than 600 TL per month, and
can go up to 1,250 TL per month depending on the number of elderly and disabled people in the family.
It will not expose the poverty of our citizens,
We will not allow poverty to be used for political exploitation.
NO MORE GRATITUDE SOCIETY!
We will offer cash support to ensure freedom of choice for our citizens.
We will prevent widespread haphazard and nepotistic practices in the provision of subsidies and all corruption, including high and irregular expenditures.
We will eliminate institutional complexity and use our resources effectively, economically and efficiently.
The only address for those in need will be the Family Insurance Agency (AS-KUR).
NO CHILD WILL GO TO BED HUNGRY
With Family Insurance, our children will not have to work.
All children will benefit equally from health and education services.
Within the scope of Family Insurance, we will provide each family with social support for two children, 45-100 TL per child.
Within the scope of Family Insurance, we will provide cash education support every month to all children attending school.
We will provide books and stationery support to children at the beginning of each school year.
We will cover all educational expenses, including dormitory fees, for children covered by the Family Insurance Program.
STRONG WOMEN, STRONG SOCIETY
Our biggest goal is to strengthen the role of women in the family and society.
We will give support under Family Insurance directly to women and
deposit it into their bank accounts every month.
By providing support to encourage pre-school education,
We will increase the participation of our women in the labor force.
DISADVANTAGED SEGMENTS OF SOCIETY UNDER THE UMBRELLA OF THE SOCIAL STATE...
We will provide 125-190 TL of monthly adult support to every family in need.
We will increase the amount of support if the family is divided and the woman is the breadwinner.
We will provide 100-150 TL monthly support for the care of the elderly in the family.
We will also cover private health expenses for the elderly covered by Family Insurance.
Within the scope of Family Insurance, we will provide support to all disabled citizens in the amount of adult support.
SOCIAL COHESION SUPPORT
We will organize social cohesion programs for families to help our citizens overcome their economic and social difficulties.
Within the scope of this support, we will organize courses on topics such as parenting education, reducing juvenile delinquency, and
cover expenses such as transportation, food and childcare.
BETTER HEALTH SERVICES
All citizens covered by the Family Insurance scheme will be covered by general health insurance
and will be able to receive treatment at public and university hospitals without paying any fees.
Citizens covered by Family Insurance will receive 50% more in adult benefits if they have a major illness.
EFFECTIVE FIGHT AGAINST UNEMPLOYMENT
Within the scope of Family Insurance, we will encourage all citizens to attend vocational training courses and be registered with İş-Kur.
We will prioritize families benefiting from the Family Insurance scheme in public guaranteed employment projects.
More jobs, more social security, fairer shares
DECENT WAGES, SECURE WORK
We will ensure that the right to work, which is an inseparable part of the right to life, is realized under fair and favorable conditions, in return for a wage that will enable a decent living.
We will set the minimum wage at a level that will enable workers to live a life worthy of human dignity.
We will make regulations on working life within the framework of universal rules in line with the conventions of the International Labor Organization (ILO) protecting labor and labor rights and the European Union (EU) acquis.
We will reintroduce the "minimum pension", which is the guarantee for widows and orphans.
TRADE UNION RIGHTS FOR ALL
We will fulfill this fundamental right of every citizen who wants to defend their rights and interests through their trade unions.
and we will make legal arrangements to secure it.
We will recognize the right to union membership, the right to collective bargaining and the right to strike for all employees without any restrictions or interference.
We will make arrangements to encourage unions of workers, public employees and employees from all walks of life to organize jointly in supreme organizations.
We will protect trade unions from interference by any power, especially political authority.
We will guarantee the right to work and working conditions of unionized workers, public servants, workplace union representatives and union leaders.
We will ensure a structure in which the will of the members is directly and effectively reflected in the management and functioning of trade unions.
We will remove the notary from being the regulator of the relationship between the worker and the union.
We will base membership in labor unions on methods that reflect the free will of the worker.
We will remove the 10% threshold from being an obstacle for trade unions in the collective bargaining process and
establish an authorization system that works effectively and is free from all kinds of pressure.
We will abolish regulations that undermine the essence of the right to strike and de facto prevent the exercise of this right.
The strike will no longer be a right that can only be exercised during the collective bargaining process;
We will legalize general strikes, rights strikes and solidarity strikes.
END SUBCONTRACTING AND INSECURE WORK IN PUBLIC SECTOR
We will adopt the principle that public services should be provided by full-time, job-secure, permanent workers and civil servants.
Implement "equal basic pay for work of equal value",
eliminate wage inequalities among public employees.
We will put an end to practices such as subcontractor labor, contracted personnel (4/B) and temporary personnel (4/C) in the public sector.
We will transfer these personnel to civil servant and worker cadres.
We will put an end to subcontracted labor in local governments, SEEs, all public institutions and organizations, especially in health services.
We will employ subcontracted workers as permanent employees according to ILO norms.
We will put an end to the practice of discrimination in the rights and freedoms of wage earners due to their employment in different statuses.
In order to close the teacher shortage in the public sector, we will immediately appoint teachers who are waiting to be appointed.
We will make all contracted teachers permanent.
Address the problem of informal employment by reducing excessive burdens that encourage informality,
by encouraging formalization
and we will solve it by focusing on supervision.
We will take high ethical values and professional competence as the main criteria in the selection and promotion of public personnel, and we
will put an end to discrimination based on language, religion, sect, ethnic origin and gender.
We will adopt the principle of family unity in public personnel management.
LIFELONG LEARNING, SKILLED LABOR
We will put in place effective workforce planning.
We will strengthen the links between education and labor policies, and take
as a basis the training of people with the qualifications demanded by the labor market.
We will develop active employment and vocational training policies to improve labor force skills.
We will make activities such as "reskilling", "lifelong learning" and "on-the-job training" more widespread and effective in order to train the labor force in the production process and acquire new skills.
We will implement short-term training programs that will provide new skills to job losers and young and female unemployed people.
In cooperation with İş-Kur and the industrial sector, we will implement a long-term training program to increase the skills of unskilled workers across Turkey.
We will support the program with existing internal training modules of companies operating in the manufacturing industry.
Under the program, we will gradually place 500-750 thousand unemployed citizens in 9-12 month training programs.
We will pay these citizens the minimum wage for the duration of their training.
STRONG EDUCATION-EMPLOYMENT LINK, INSURANCE FOR VOCATIONAL HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS
We will consider young people studying in technical vocational high schools and vocational colleges as full-time insured, and
we will encourage vocational technical education by covering the premiums with the funds allocated to the budgets of these schools.
We will regularly analyze the occupations in need in each province and across the country, create an employment map of Turkey, and
shape vocational training according to this map.
We will strengthen social dialog in VET.
To this end, we will make the necessary arrangements to strengthen the institutional capacities of social stakeholders in education.
In addition to the regional "Provincial Employment and Vocational Training Boards" established within the framework of establishing social dialogue, we will establish "Employment and Vocational Training Boards" at the national level, "Sectoral Employment and Vocational Training Boards" at the sectoral level and "School-Industry Advisory Boards" at the school level.
We will create inpatient vocational training units in organized industrial zones.
We will turn organized industrial zones into vocational education campuses.
We will restructure the existing Vocational Training Centers in line with the concept of lifelong education, in order to provide skills to people of all ages.
BETTER WORKING CONDITIONS FOR ALL
We will enact the "Basic Labor Law" and leave no worker outside the scope of the labor law.
We will not allow workers to work excessive hours.
We will ensure that our citizens have more time to live.
We will revise the legislation on occupational health and safety to cover all workplaces and all workers with the active participation of social partners.
We will stop shipyards, mines and construction sites from being death traps and put
an end to the understanding that perceives death in work accidents as fate.
Women will be empowered
A TURKEY WHERE WOMEN CAN LIVE WITHOUT VIOLENCE
We will work to prevent violence against women, protect those who have been subjected to violence and ensure that they can build a life where they will not be subjected to violence again.
We will allocate sufficient funds from local and national budgets for services to combat violence against women.
Adopt combating violence against women as a public policy
and we will structure our social policies and state institutions accordingly.
We will create counseling centers that provide free counseling, psychological support and legal aid.
We will open at least 5 new women's shelters every year.
We will amend the Turkish Penal Code and enact the Güldünya Law to ensure that not only honor killings but also honor killings are punished in the harshest way.
We will reorganize the service systems provided to victims of violence and
fill the training gaps of those working in these services through special programs.
We will enact the Equality Framework Law.
We will establish a Commission for Equality of Women and Men, not a Commission for Equal Opportunities for Women and Men.
We will ensure that all international conventions we are party to in the field of women's rights, especially the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women, are reflected in social life and our legal system.
THE SECURITY OF THE SOCIAL STATE, NOT OF THE HUSBAND, FATHER OR NEIGHBOR
Equal and full access to all basic services and citizenship rights, especially education and health,
We promise a Turkey where women and men are equal.
We will provide health insurance to every woman who does not have her own insurance.
We will fully support women in family planning.
We will provide all health services, nutrition and medication free of charge to women during pregnancy, childbirth and maternity.
We will prioritize equal opportunities in all areas for equality between women and men;
we will implement the principle of positive discrimination.
We will put an end to the understanding of care that prevents women from working, ties them to the home and does not provide social security.
FULL SUPPORT FOR GIRLS AND WOMEN IN EDUCATION
We will create an education system where girls can fully benefit from educational opportunities.
We will support families for this purpose.
We will create opportunities such as summer schools, evening schools, vocational courses and open education for every woman who has had to leave her education unfinished.
We will prioritize women in vocational training.
We will provide dormitory facilities for young university girls.
We will increase quotas and quotas for girls in scholarships and free boarding schools.
We will establish Public Education Centers or Multi-Purpose Community Centers in every district to increase women's skills and
improve their employment opportunities.
THERE WILL BE A QUOTA FOR WOMEN UNTIL GENDER EQUALITY IS ACHIEVED
We will implement quotas and positive discrimination to ensure equality between women and men for all elected and appointed positions.
Women to participate in politics,
we will encourage them to run.
We will amend the Law on Political Parties and Elections and
legalize quotas.
We will strengthen the women's branches of political parties.
DAYCARE FOR EVERY CHILD
First of all, we will open free or state-funded kindergartens and nursery schools for the children of working women, civil servants and laborers, run with the participation of families in areas with poor social development.
Children will have the right to play
CHILD CENTERS
We will establish Children's Centers that aim to provide the best possible humanitarian conditions for mothers and children, both before and after birth.
In these centers, we will provide basic health and care services free of charge to every citizen before and after birth.
We will provide half a gold coin as a contribution to the family at birth and diapers and formula for babies.
We will provide expectant mothers with services for "pregnancy guidance", "parenting guidance", health, nutrition, maternity education and social and cultural development.
We will encourage the participation of fathers in Parenting Guidance programs.
In line with our goal of "basic health support for every child", we will provide free health check-ups for every child at birth and after birth at these centers.
This will bring the vaccination rate to 100%,
gender inequalities in nutrition and development
and eliminate regional inequalities.
Toys and playgrounds, which are of great importance for children's social, cognitive and emotional development, will be an important part of these centers.
FREE QUALITY EDUCATION FOR EVERY CHILD
We will ensure access to pre-school education, the most important component of early childhood development, for all children across the country.
We will abolish co-payments in schools.
We will improve the quality and quantity of education services.
We will design and implement play and sports fields, gardens, classrooms and cultural activity areas in schools according to the needs of children.
We will subject educational institutions to infrastructural arrangements to provide services to children with disabilities and
ensure that children with disabilities have access to educational institutions.
We will ensure that educators receive special training on children with disabilities.
We will ensure that education services are full day and free of charge.
We will make school a center of attraction for children, not only with education in the classroom, but also with after-school study hours, social, cultural and physical activities.
We will provide children with a meal every day at school, as well as staple foods such as milk and fruit.
FREE AND QUALITY HEALTH CARE FOR EVERY CHILD
Increasing the number of obstetrics and gynecology hospitals in line with our target of improvement in maternal and child health
and improve the quality of services provided in these institutions.
We will open children's hospitals in every province, which are only available in big cities across Turkey.
We will provide quality health care to pregnant women, babies and children free of charge.
We will improve the quality of free services for infants and children in economically underdeveloped regions and rural areas.
We will implement intensive information campaigns on maternal and infant health.
CHILD-CENTERED SERVICES
We will prevent child labor by providing families with enough income to live humanely.
We will make physical and social investments so that children can complete their physical, emotional and intellectual development.
We will organize our cities according to the priorities and needs of children.
We will review and improve the spatial organization of all units such as hospitals and schools where children receive services.
SOCIAL STATE FOR CHILDREN
We will focus in particular on children with fewer opportunities and address the nutrition, health and education services they access within the framework of children's rights.
We will develop policies to address gender inequalities that affect children's lives both in their early years and in adulthood.
We will make "vital child services", including nutrition, health, education, emotional, cognitive and social development goals, accessible to every child.
We will raise public awareness on children's rights.
We will implement a child policy based on children's rights, taking into account international conventions.
We will see the child as an individual, and aim for their empowerment, not their dependency.
We will prioritize the "best interests of the child" in all social policy implementations.
We will create a "Children's Budget" that will enable the implementation of children's policies, and
we will ensure that the deficiencies in practices regarding children across Turkey and the differences between regions are monitored and realistic.
Young people will live their youth
STRONG, EQUAL, FREE YOUTH
We will empower all young people and
increase their choices based on the principles of equality and respect for human rights.
Young people will live their youth!
We will promote equal opportunities for young people and
fight against all forms of discrimination.
We will end all kinds of pressure on young people.
We will first reduce the duration of military service to 9 months and gradually to 6 months.
We will enable university students to do their military service during summer vacations, divided into two or three-month periods.
Thus, we will prevent our young people from being cut off from life at their most productive age.
WE WILL SEE THE UNSEEN YOUTH
We will see the "invisible youth" and
develop youth policies that take into account not only students but also all young people who are working, unemployed or staying at home.
To this end, we will develop additional measures for special groups of young people, such as girls at home, young people who work and study, young people with disabilities, and
we will not ignore a single young person.
It will reach out to more than two million home girls through female teachers in order to open them up to the outside world,
supporting them to participate in catch-up education and distance learning programs and to come together.
YOUNG TURKEY POLICY
We will implement a holistic, multi-dimensional Young Turkey Policy based on cross-sectoral cooperation.
We will address youth in every policy area.
We will establish the Framework Youth Law, and
we will legally guarantee the services and practices set out in the Young Turkey Policy.
We will rapidly implement the Youth Action Plan and
guarantee that youth policies will reach every corner of Turkey.
We will establish the Youth Policy Coordination Institution (GENÇ-KUR), which will work as a coordination platform between central state organs, civil society organizations and local administrations for the implementation of the Young Turkey Policy.
We will create a Youth Budget within GENÇ-KUR with resources from the central budget.
We will create an institutional focus to advocate for youth rights by establishing a Youth Specialized Commission in the TGNA We
will encourage the establishment of "Youth Studies" departments and research institutes offering undergraduate and graduate programs at universities.
We will strengthen the capacity and opportunities of youth CSOs and
encourage youth participation in CSOs.
We will support the projects of youth NGOs in terms of resources.
PARTICIPATORY YOUTH
Young people are not only the guarantors of Turkey's bright future but also the partners of today.
In a CHP government, young people will participate in decision-making processes.
By amending Article 58 of the Constitution, the only article on youth, we will end the view of youth as a group that needs to be protected and taken care of, and we
will see them as equal partners in all areas of social life.
We will start with young people.
Our most important goal is to increase the participation of the younger generation, especially young women, in politics, education, employment and all areas of society.
In this information age, we will pay special attention to young people's access to information technologies.
We will provide internet access and computers to every young person.
EXPANDED OPPORTUNITIES FOR YOUNG PEOPLE
With the Youth Discount, young people can benefit from public transportation facilities,
culture, arts and sports events,
We will ensure that they can benefit from discounted prices in shops and restaurants.
With the contribution of local governments, we will ensure that all young people, especially young women, are informed and aware of their rights.
We will establish Youth Houses in city centers that will be open to all young people and will serve all segments of society, where a tolerant youth, who sees differences as a value and is open to the world, will meet.
Developing the productivity of young people,
diversify interests
We will accelerate voluntary youth work to contribute to their independence and independence.
VIBRANT YOUTH
We will launch the Youth on the Move initiative to expose young people to different cultures, environments and worldviews.
In this context, we will expand youth exchange programs between provinces and countries
and provide public support to ensure that they reach all young people from all walks of life.
In inter-provincial youth exchange programs, we will bring young people, especially young women, together with young people and their families living in different provinces in order to bring young people together with the culture and traditions of different regions of our country.
Within the scope of international youth exchange programs, we will strengthen connections with high schools and universities, especially in EU countries, and
ensure that all young people from all walks of life benefit from these programs.
Our young people to utilize their time and energy in a useful way during their summer vacations,
We will organize youth summer schools to help them discover their own talents and tendencies.
Pensioners to share in national income growth
HIGH INCOME FOR A DECENT LIFE
We will provide our pensioners with an income at a level that they can live humanely while preserving their dignity.
We will raise the salaries of all our pensioners above the poverty line.
We will eliminate the gap between pensions by enacting the adjustment law that pensioners are waiting for.
We will give pensions a share of national income growth.
We will abolish the Social Security Support Premium deducted from the salaries of our working pensioners.
INCLUSIVE HEALTH CARE
We will provide all public health services to our pensioners without co-payment.
We will not make any deductions from our pensioners' salaries for these services, which include medical examinations and medication.
We will take the unmarried daughters of our pensioners under the social security of their parents until their death, as in the past.
BETTER QUALITY OF LIFE
We will take care of our elderly and pensioners in need of care.
We will provide our pensioners with the opportunity to travel and vacation at reasonable prices with cultural tourism projects to be realized within the Ministry of Culture and Tourism and in cooperation with TÜRSAB.
We will provide guidance and counseling services to make it easier for our retirees to adapt to their new living conditions.
FOR RETIREES, CULTURAL DEVELOPMENT WITH RETIREES
We will turn the coffee houses, where our retirees spend a lot of time, back into cultural places where newspapers, magazines and books are read.
We will ensure that our retirees pass on their life experiences to younger generations.
With the Bridge Between Generations projects, we will ensure that our young people keep our cultural values alive and the social lives of our retirees remain vibrant.
We will change the understanding of occupation-based social facilities.
We will ensure that all retired citizens benefit from the services offered in existing facilities and new ones.
Unlimited access for people with disabilities
END SOCIAL BARRIERS
We will provide our disabled citizens with the opportunities required by modern life in every field.
We will solve the problems of our disabled citizens with the common sensitivity of everyone.
We will ensure 100% access of our disabled citizens to all areas of social life.
We will prevent disabilities or chronic diseases from becoming social barriers.
We will fulfill all the responsibilities imposed on the state by the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities.
We will also ensure that the Optional Protocol to this convention is ratified as quickly as possible.
We will quickly organize all physical spaces for the disabled.
We will ensure the removal of barriers under the responsibility of local governments.
We will ensure equal opportunities for the disabled and the chronically ill.
We will make all transportation vehicles, cinemas, theaters, concert halls and common areas disabled-friendly.
We will enact an anti-discrimination law that will define the types of discrimination.
We will establish a mechanism to monitor discriminatory practices and
reverse the burden of proof in discrimination cases.
SPECIAL EDUCATION FOR OUR DISABLED CHILDREN AND YOUTH
It will be the primary duty of the state to provide the necessary education to people with disabilities free of charge.
We will ensure that children with slow development, incomplete development or mental disabilities are educated with special methods.
Providing these citizens with the opportunity to work
and we will implement special projects for their reintegration into society.
We will ensure that the hearing and visually impaired can receive comfortable and quality education at all levels of education, including universities.
We will create modern technical infrastructure and hardware facilities, special libraries and virtual learning environments for people with disabilities.
We will meet the need for branch teachers in institutions providing vocational training for the disabled.
We will provide the necessary vocational and artistic training to all disabled people who can do certain jobs with state facilities.
SOCIAL LIFE FOR PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES
We will popularize sports equipment for the disabled.
We will make it easier for people with disabilities to embrace society through sports.
We will establish specially-equipped education and technology centers so that people with disabilities of all ages and in all regions can access information resources more easily.
We will create a suitable employee strategy for people with disabilities.
We will provide guidance services for job adaptation with Job and Vocational Counseling throughout the country.
We will take legal measures for the effective participation of disabled people's organizations in decision-making processes on issues related to disabled people.
We will increase the digitalization of books for the visually impaired.
EXPANDED SOCIAL RIGHTS FOR PERSONS WITH DISABILITIES
We will pay permanent disability pensions to all disabled people, whether they work or not.
We will enact the Care Insurance Law and
provide care services to all disabled people in need of care, regardless of poverty.
We will ensure that the quotas allocated for the disabled in the public and private sectors are fully utilized.
We will provide tax advantages and interest-free loans to disabled people who are self-employed and want to start their own business.
We will enact the Protected Workplace Law, which aims to include severely disabled people in the production process with social rehabilitation services.
We will abolish regulations that artificially reduce the degree of disability of the disabled and cause loss of rights by applying the concept of "Loss of Whole Body Function" unilaterally.
Dignified, independent elders
DECENT INCOME, QUALITY AND MODERN CARE
We will ensure that our elderly live a quality life as dignified, independent citizens without being dependent on anyone, including their families.
Our elderly will receive support under Family Insurance.
We will prevent practices that exclude the elderly in all areas of social life.
We will rapidly introduce institutional support and services to solve the problems of elderly care in the family.
It will create social, psychological and financial support systems for family members caring for the elderly at home,
We will improve the existing ones.
CORPORATE CARE IN A HOME-LIKE ENVIRONMENT
In order to meet the need for elderly care in the future, we will work on capacity and infrastructure within the framework of a new care approach.
Daily living support for elderly women who have to live alone
and day care systems.
We will increase and improve the number of day care institutions.
Thus, we will reduce the dependency and responsibilities of women caring for the elderly at home.
We will never allow degrading behavior in institutions that provide care and support services to our elderly.
We will develop care services that are free of charge and sensitive to human rights instead of paid care services for the sick and elderly that do not respect private life.
SPECIAL HEALTH SERVICES FOR THE ELDERLY
We will establish geriatric hospitals where preventive medicine, early diagnosis and treatment services will be provided.
We will assign auxiliary health personnel for all elderly citizens in need of home care.
We will carry out regular screenings with specialized teams to protect the eye, dental and general health of our elderly.
In order to meet the need for elderly care in the future, we will work on capacity and infrastructure within the framework of a new care approach.
For a happy society, happy citizens...
Quality public services, daylight management
Public services are vital for ensuring social welfare, development and justice, and for improving the quality of life of citizens.
Effective outreach of social policies to citizens,
empowerment of the needy and vulnerable,
protection of the family,
promotion of personal responsibility and independence are important factors that strengthen human development.
Basic services such as education and health must be provided to all citizens on the basis of rights.
A country's modernization,
social development, and the
ability of its citizens to live as free, well-equipped and happy individuals depend on the most effective delivery of public services to citizens.
Public services enable citizens to live their lives in the most efficient way possible,
It also aims to protect them from risks and dangers that they would find difficult to tackle alone.
As a social democratic political party, one of the main objectives of the CHP is to provide quality and comprehensive services to the public.
Since the public sector plays a primary role in providing a significant portion of the services to be provided to the public, it is one of the main priorities of the CHP to deliver these services to citizens in the most efficient way.
CHP aims to provide social services effectively and extensively throughout Turkey with a modern understanding of social services, future-oriented investments and new regulations.
To provide basic services such as education, health and minimum social security, which are the rights of citizenship, to all citizens without discrimination
and eliminating regional disparities in access to public services is a top priority of the CHP.
Beyond this, the CHP's understanding of public service is based on the provision of services of the highest standards, designed by taking into account the different needs of different segments of society, to citizens within the framework of a new organizational model.
The CHP's primary goal is to realize a comprehensive and modern education reform and to establish a brand new modern, secular, democratic education system in line with the requirements of the information age.
The importance of education in economic and social transformation is evident in the experiences of successful countries.
In this context, in order to realize economic and social transformations, education policies must be based on science, love, tolerance and peace, and must be institutionalized and free from the bickering of daily politics.
CHP calls for an egalitarian education system,
to provide equal opportunities and pave the way for all citizens, children, youth and adults,
educational institutions are committed to Atatürk's principles and revolutions,
democratic and secular values,
It is committed to fulfilling its function of raising citizens who respect human rights and freedoms.
The current level, structure and quality of health services in Turkey are far behind EU countries and clearly inadequate for a country with Turkey's level of development and potential.
The ongoing disarray in the institutional structure is a major source of problems.
At the same time, the health sector faces economic and social damage caused by significant rent-seeking structures, illegality and corruption.
Health is the most vital human need and the most fundamental element of social and economic policies.
Contemporary social democracy regards health as a fundamental right
and aims to provide quality, sustainable and equitable health services, which have taken on new dimensions and become more expensive with the development of the knowledge economy.
Poverty reduction in the context of health-related social goals,
regional service distribution to be made equitable,
breakthroughs in educational and social infrastructures and in the field of information and communication technologies,
Women's equal access to health services is a priority goal of the CHP.
CHP is determined to build a fast, safe and affordable transportation system that supports growth and development and to provide equal opportunities for all citizens.
CHP's main priority in transportation is to ensure the efficient use of resources and our transportation potential
and to realize a modern structuring.
Thus, a balanced, effective and efficient planning, coordination and guidance will be ensured in land, sea, air and railway transportation networks.
The right to the environment is a universal human right.
Ensuring the Right to the Environment, which includes rights such as clean air, clean water and a green environment, is one of the main priorities of the CHP.
CHP defends the right of every human being to live a natural and healthy life.
Environmental protection cannot be sacrificed to commercial concerns.
The CHP sees environmental protection not only as the right of today's citizens but also as a debt to future generations.
To this end, it aims to effectively expand services for the protection of nature and the environment.
CHP shapes its sports policies on the principle of equality.
To improve existing sports practices to meet the needs of all citizens,
to bring all sports services to social segments and regions with fewer opportunities,
Creating sports fields and green spaces in every neighborhood are the main priorities of the CHP.
For social development, enlightenment and modernization, culture and arts must be liberated, supported and spread to all segments of society.
With this understanding, CHP calls for an end to arbitrary bans and censorship on cultural activities and the arts,
advocates the dissemination of culture and arts to all segments of society.
CHP aims to ensure peace and tranquility in our country.
Based on trust in our citizens and society, and with a renewal that will ensure that citizens trust the state and public authority is fully restored, the CHP will make a holistic understanding and will to fight against terrorism with the support of all organs of the state, the public and the media, instead of only "armed struggle".
CHP calls on the public, private sector and civil society to find common solutions for a livable world that we can leave to future generations,
The Company aims to expand its social responsibility approach, which leads to sustainable development and social justice, in all areas.
Corporate social responsibility projects based on volunteerism, especially in the fields of education, health and environment, will be supported under the CHP government.
CHP aims to make "daylight management" dominant in public administration.
To eliminate mismanagement, waste, corruption and discrimination that distort the distribution of income and impoverish our people with an understanding of governance in the light of day,
Thus, it is one of the main priorities of the CHP to increase our wealth and distribute this wealth fairly.
CHP will make ethical values such as justice, integrity, honesty, impartiality and responsibility the foundation of public administration.
It will accept international standards and the EU acquis as the road map for the modernization of public administration in Turkey.
Democracies stand on the shoulders of fully and accurately informed citizens who actively participate in public decisions, who are sensitive to social problems, who hold governments to account for their actions and expenditures.
The common name of the CHP's principles for democratization, transparency and good governance in public administration is "governance in broad daylight".
This understanding is a prerequisite for economic and social development.
Education
EDUCATION LEVEL WILL RISE
On the one hand, to make our illiterate adults literate, and on the other hand, to eradicate the source of illiteracy, children who do not attend pre-primary and primary education,
We will leave no illiterate youth and adults.
With a lifelong learning approach, we aim to enable children, youth and adults to benefit from the education system for a longer period of time by expanding learning opportunities at all levels.
and we will ensure that they receive more qualified education.
We will expand access to preschool education primarily to the groups most in need.
We will increase public spending on education per student at all levels.
Until the age of 18, we will keep all children and youth in compulsory education.
PRESCHOOL EDUCATION
For preschool education, we will provide "child education support" to families covered by Family Insurance
and make preschool education free for these families.
We will make 4-5 years of preschool education compulsory.
With the participation of educational scientists and pedagogues, we will launch a curriculum study for pre-school education.
We will only appoint prospective preschool teachers who meet the defined standards.
We will provide full-day education in all preschool education institutions and prepare the opportunity for mothers to transition into employment.
PRIMARY EDUCATION NO CHILD WILL BE LEFT TO WITHER WITHOUT BLOOMING
Revise primary education programs in line with the general objectives of Turkish national education
and committed to Atatürk's principles and revolutions,
democratic and secular values,
We will emphasize the function of raising citizens who respect human rights and freedoms.
Our main principle in primary education is "The school closest to home is the best school."
In this context, we will minimize transportation.
We will rapidly improve the management and teaching environments of Regional Primary Boarding Schools (YİBO),
but we will gradually reduce the number and capacity of students in these schools.
We will not appoint out-of-field teachers to primary education who do not meet defined standards.
STRUCTURING BASED ON PROGRAM TYPE IN SECONDARY EDUCATION
In order to rid the Turkish education system of the segregated school structure, we will shift from a structure based on "school types" to a structure based on "program types" in secondary education.
We will ensure equal opportunities for all high schools.
While preserving the main structures of "general secondary education" and "vocational-technical secondary education" in secondary education, we will keep horizontal transitions open at every stage
and ensure that every student who wishes to do so can acquire "vocational skills" at the secondary education stage and enter life.
NO GIRL WILL BE LEFT WITHOUT SECONDARY EDUCATION IN RURAL AREAS
In order to increase access to secondary education for rural children, we will accelerate the construction of "boarding houses" in areas where secondary education institutions are located.
In order to eliminate gender inequality in secondary education, we will design some of these as "girls' boarding secondary schools".
In order to increase the participation of rural children in secondary education, we will expand the practice of transportation education in these regions.
EQUAL OPPORTUNITY IN EDUCATION
As a requirement of the principle of a social state, we will be as concerned about the children who are lagging behind as we are about the children who are advancing, and
we will try to raise them to a higher level.
We will not leave any of our children unattended
and we will guide them to life by providing them with skills through our vocational training programs.
We will expand compensatory education programs for children of compulsory education age who have never attended primary education or who have dropped out of intermediate classes.
At all levels of education, we will implement an equitable distribution of educational opportunities to schools based on national standards.
Expand formal and non-formal education opportunities for children and youth in need of special education
and we will reach a wider audience.
We will eliminate dual education and
introduce "full day" education at all levels of education.
We will put an end to the practice of "unified classrooms" in crowded groups.
We will raise the average scores of our children in the international achievement assessment test (PISA) above the averages of OECD countries.
We will reduce the proportion of children below the basic proficiency level to below 15%.
"THE SCHOOL IS WHAT TEACHERS AND ADMINISTRATORS ARE"
Finding the best candidates for school leadership,
We will take the necessary measures for their training and continuous development.
We will encourage master's and doctoral level education for school management (and education supervision).
Stop the lowering of standards in secondary teacher training and appointments,
We will introduce higher standards in teacher training.
We will encourage master's and doctoral degrees for teaching at all levels of education.
We will take OECD norms as a basis for determining teacher needs.
In the short term, we will move to education and manpower planning based on these norms.
We will determine the need for additional teachers through a needs projection
and create a great employment opportunity for unassigned teacher candidates.
We will abandon the practice of "contracted teachers" in teacher employment. We
will put an end to the practice of "paid teachers" and
fill these deficits with suitable teacher candidates and permanent appointments.
We will review the teaching staff in public education centers and vocational education centers and
appoint teacher candidates with vocational and technical education teaching diplomas to these institutions.
WE WILL NOT ALLOW EXAMS TO HOLD STUDENTS CAPTIVE
We will abolish the SBS exam and
provide a healthier functioning of primary schools.
We will ensure that our students develop basic skills based on subjects such as reading comprehension, science, social sciences and mathematics.
We will enrich and support school programs to develop basic life skills such as using time effectively, protecting the body, understanding the feelings of others, and communicating in a healthy way.
We will phase out the university exam system.
We will re-establish a reliable transition process to higher education in which young people can fully reflect their secondary education achievements and in which families and young people can be confident of the outcome.
Until efforts to restructure and improve the ÖSYS system are in place, the immediate measures to be taken are as follows
We will trust the students taking the exams and the building examiners and invigilators.
We will focus on quality test development, assessment and placement rather than excessive security measures.
We will abolish coefficient applications and secondary education achievement score calculations and ensure that students are placed within the scope of common courses.
We will not charge exam fees for exams (SBS, ÖSS, KPSS), which are part of the national education system and are compulsory for students by government decisions.
We will end the multi-headed examination organization and establish a national test center with an autonomous structure.
In the new testing center, in addition to paper-and-pencil tests, we will rapidly develop "individual-specific tests".
AUTONOMOUS UNIVERSITIES WITH UNIVERSAL VALUES
We will abolish the Council of Higher Education (YÖK).
Our universities will not shut up.
Universities should be places where people think and express their thoughts freely,
to become socially responsible institutions.
We will provide universities with scientific, administrative and financial autonomy and encourage academic research and teaching efficiency through the omnibus budget.
We will make administrative arrangements to ensure that our universities carry out their teaching, research and social services according to universal standards.
We will provide the necessary conditions for our university students to graduate with ethical values, qualifications and leadership qualities.
We will make continuing education attractive for students after graduation.
We will encourage our universities to enter into close cooperation with the industry;
for scientific innovation, we will encourage all kinds of industries to invest in universities and faculty members to work in favorable conditions for their research.
UNIVERSITIES SEEKING AND RESEARCHING INFORMATION
We will make all necessary arrangements to make scientific research culture one of the primary founding objectives of our universities.
We will bring unlimited freedom to scientific research.
We will provide our universities with all kinds of resources for scientific research.
In particular, we will bring the salaries and personal rights of faculty members working in state universities to European Union standards.
We will allocate more of the national budget to organizations that support domestic scientific research (SPO, TUBITAK, etc.)
and make it easier to access these supports.
We will especially encourage research centers to benefit from these funds.
WORLD-RENOWNED UNIVERSITIES
By supporting R&D studies and encouraging scientific publications, by the end of four years, we will ensure that 10 of our universities enter the top 500, at least 3 of which will be in the top 200 in the world rankings.
We will ensure that our universities take a leading role in the process of becoming a full member of the EU by supporting joint programs to be established with universities in European Union member countries.
We will make it easier for our university students and faculty members to benefit from international exchange programs.
Through international research projects, we will provide direct financial and administrative support to the activities of our faculty members and university students in different countries, especially in the European Union countries.
We will provide opportunities to encourage our universities to focus more on master's and especially doctoral programs.
We will offer incentives to encourage interdisciplinary research centers and institutes.
STUDENT-CENTERED TEACHING IN UNIVERSITIES
We will abolish university fees
and solve the dormitory problem completely within two years at the latest.
In dormitories, we will ensure that our students benefit from technological tools in a healthy and safe environment.
We will make legal arrangements to ensure more effective representation of our students in university administration.
We will provide low-interest Higher Education Life Support Loans to university students.
We will show the necessary flexibility in loan repayment, taking into account financial conditions.
We will reduce the costs of benefiting from Open Education programs.
We will also create degree and professional certificate programs through internet-based distance learning methods.
Health
QUALITY HEALTH CARE FOR ALL, NOT FOR THOSE WHO CAN AFFORD IT...
Access to timely, adequate and quality health care is a fundamental human right.
Health services are easily accessible for all citizens,
quality and equality.
We will ensure that everyone lives in a healthy environment and conditions, not only in the event of illness or disability, but in perpetuity, in physical, mental and social health.
We will ensure that early diagnosis services are available to all citizens at the closest point to where they live.
We will end degrading practices such as being held hostage or signing promissory notes in health institutions.
For a healthy generation, we will implement a nutrition assistance program for children in schools.
We will ensure that oral and dental health services are also provided by private health institutions and clinics that are easily accessible to our citizens everywhere, and
we will expand preventive dentistry services in all our regions.
EQUAL OPPORTUNITY FOR ALL IN HEALTH SERVICES
To bring preventive and primary health care services as close as possible to where our citizens live,
through adequate and qualified health personnel.
We will prioritize preventive health services such as nutrition, housing and hygiene conditions, which constitute the most fundamental link between poverty and health services; we will
control infectious and epidemic diseases at the level of European countries.
We will not charge co-payments from poor citizens.
We will eliminate significant regional imbalances in access to health services, both in terms of quality and quantity.
HEALTH PERSONNEL WILL RECEIVE THEIR RIGHTS IN FULL
We will put an end to subcontracting in health service delivery.
We will put an end to the current performance practice and
establish a reasonable, satisfactory and fair wage policy based on the principles of "team service" and "measurement of service outputs", covering all health workers in the settlement.
We will ensure an adequate number of qualified physicians and health personnel.
We will not compromise on quality in the training of health personnel.
We will put an end to the policy of increasing the staff of medical faculties and opening new faculties in order to increase the number of physicians.
We will eliminate interregional inequalities in the distribution of manpower and services in health.
We will provide additional income and other social opportunities to physicians and health personnel working in deprived areas.
Instead of compulsory service in health, we will make the service more effective and efficient with incentive methods.
In addition to well-trained physicians, we will ensure the complete education and training of biomedical engineers, medical physicists and academic staff.
We will ensure that health workers closely follow the developments in the world through continuous in-service training.
WE WILL IMPROVE HEALTH INFRASTRUCTURE
Health infrastructure is strong,
has sufficient and qualified manpower,
preferred by the public, where preventive, home and outpatient services are offered together,
We will provide a coordinated service structure for patient referral and monitoring of patients.
We will ensure the production and development of patient information systems, software related to medical devices and predominantly information/image processing and information systems.
We will promote an effective technopark system by supporting solidarity and cooperation between university-industry-government, universities and disciplines in R&D programs in medical technology.
We will facilitate and expand the acquisition and protection of national and international patent and license rights for new technologies, ideas and products.
In order to ensure the continuity of preventive health services, we will eliminate the shortage of physicians, midwives, nurses and health officers with a team service approach.
We will increase the share of the budget and national income allocated to health.
As recommended by the World Health Organization, we will allocate 10% of the general budget to health services.
We will make secondary and tertiary service and teaching hospitals financially and administratively autonomous and
support their coordination and cooperation with the Faculty of Medicine in their region in terms of academic and educational activities.
We will bring medical law up to contemporary norms and standards.
We will activate patients' rights and
We will set up a fund for those who have been harmed in the course of their treatment.
INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENT
We will purge the health sector of high rents, illegality and corruption and turn it into a completely rule-based and transparent sector.
We will restructure the Ministry of Health.
Within the Ministry, it will prepare health programs,
will monitor its implementation
and a "General Directorate of Health Programs" to finance them.
For the implementation of these programs, we will establish implementing general directorates in the fields of "basic health services", "inpatient treatment institutions", "health manpower", "medical technology and pharmacy".
We will ensure greater devolution of intensive powers from the Ministry of Health headquarters to the provinces.
We will protect and strengthen the provincial organization of the Ministry of Health.
Primary care services will have improved facilities
and by Family Health Centers, which will be responsible for the health of the population living in a given area.
We will provide personalized preventive health services and effective diagnosis and treatment opportunities at Family Health Centers.
We will create an urban model of Family Health Centers and ensure that specialist physicians work in these centers in cities.
We will ensure that there are dentists, laboratory specialists and other specialists in large Family Health Centers.
We will ensure that hospitals become institutions that serve fewer patients, but with better quality.
NATIONAL PHARMACEUTICAL INDUSTRY
We will ensure the necessary supervision in cooperation with the relevant professional chambers for conscious drug consumption.
We will limit advertising and promotions in pharmaceuticals.
We will support the national production of pharmaceuticals, vaccines and medical equipment and
support product development and raw material production in these areas.
We will make generic medicine effective.
We will create conditions for competition in the production of medical equipment and make local producers competitive with foreign producers.
We will reduce healthcare costs through increased domestic production.
We will support long-term planning of medical device requirements by all health institutions, from the smallest health unit to the largest hospital, and
ensure that we know what is needed, when and where.
WOMEN AND CHILDREN
We will pay special attention to increasing women's access to health services.
We will provide family planning education and services free of charge to every citizen in need.
We will support all families to have as many children as they want.
We will ensure that all births take place safely and with the help of health personnel.
In order to reduce the very high maternal, infant and child mortality rates to the level of European countries, we will create all necessary infrastructure, especially health personnel, birth and newborn care.
We will provide food aid and free medicines for pregnant women, puerperium, babies and children for poor families.
We will work to raise awareness on sexual health, maternity and infant health, especially in rural areas and poor neighborhoods in cities.
We will ensure continuity in health screenings, especially for children and women, and
we will rapidly reach 100% realization rate in the free periodic vaccination campaign for children.
We will ensure that all our citizens, especially infants, children and nursing mothers, have adequate and balanced nutrition and access to safe food.
We will provide primary health care units, nurseries and breastfeeding rooms in all large public and private facilities and enterprises.
Transportation
EFFECTIVE TRANSPORTATION MANAGEMENT AND PLANNING
We will build a fast, safe and economic transportation system that supports growth and development.
It will ensure the effective use of resources and our transportation potential,
We will realize a modern restructuring.
We will realize a balanced, effective and efficient planning, coordination and guidance in land, sea, air and rail transportation networks.
We will redefine the National Transportation Master Plan according to our social and economic priorities, today's needs and modern transportation systems.
We will ensure that transportation sub-sectors complement and support each other.
We will modernize transport infrastructures and
support the development of transport systems in orderly competition.
INTERNATIONAL STANDARDS IN HIGHWAYS
We will bring the road network up to international standards.
We will improve surface quality on highways and
increase transportation safety.
We will create a road network and service infrastructure that will ensure safe transportation to every village and town in all seasons.
We will improve road safety and
eliminate this wound with the "Target Zero Casualties" program.
EFFECTIVE UTILIZATION OF SEA ROUTES
We will make maximum use of maritime transportation opportunities.
We will increase the transportation capacity of the Turkish Merchant Fleet.
We will make the necessary arrangements to bring the ships operated by Turkish shipowners under foreign flags back to the Turkish flag
and prevent the flight to foreign flags.
We will apply a 50% discount on port fees, health fees and lighthouse fees for transit cargoes arriving at Turkish ports for shipment to neighboring countries, and we will ensure the movement of cargo between the ports near the border and the border region and the benefit of the people of the region.
RAILWAYS BREAKTHROUGH
We will focus on infrastructure investments in railways, especially high-speed train lines,
and significantly increase the share of railways in transportation.
We will project the rail connections of all our important ports.
We will make Turkey an international logistics destination in the planning of railway investments.
RAIL SYSTEMS AND ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY SOLUTIONS IN URBAN TRANSPORTATION
We will give priority to rail systems and public transportation for fast, cheap and easy transportation in our cities.
We will rapidly expand the metro and rail transportation network in major urban centers.
For our medium-sized cities, we will develop alternatives such as dedicated roads for public transportation.
We will ensure the production of electro-mechanical equipment of rail systems in Turkey.
We will implement pedestrian and bicycle-oriented transportation solutions in urban centers in an integrated manner with public transportation systems, and
we will plan in the light of scientific data instead of arbitrary practices.
TURKEY WILL BE A LOGISTICS HUB
We will create logistics centers in major production and consumption centers.
In these centers, we will bring together the maritime, rail and road sub-sectors in an effective and balanced structure.
We will make our country the transshipment and distribution hub of Europe and Asia.
Environment and nature protection
We will say 'stop' to environmental plunder.
We will protect our national heritage of natural wealth, biodiversity, watersheds and forests.
We will pay special attention to the protection of the habitats of wildlife, plant and animal species, while respecting the ecological balance.
We will prevent the sacrifice of natural and archaeological protected areas, which form the identity of our cities, to development rents, and
provide financial support to protect and use these areas and pass them on to future generations.
We will update environmental law in line with international conventions, the EU acquis and national needs.
We will ensure that EU and international grants and loans are used effectively and appropriately in environmental projects.
We will work together with NGOs and universities working on this issue in the formulation and implementation of our environmental policies.
We will make raising awareness of the environment and nature conservation part of our national education system.
ANIMAL RIGHTS
We will remove animal protection from the misdemeanor law and include it under the criminal law.
We will ensure that those who mistreat animals are prosecuted.
We will open animal hospices in all cities that also serve all animals that are victimized, weakened, old, or victims of traffic accidents.
In accordance with Law No. 3285, stop the mass culling of animals by municipalities, even in cases of "suspicion",
instead we will register all animals and sterilize stray cats and dogs.
We will not allow the opening of new stores selling animals and will
strictly monitor existing ones.
Sport
SPORT FOR ALL
We will provide equal opportunities for women and men in sports.
We will improve existing sports practices to meet the needs of our youth.
We will develop special projects to promote sports in Eastern and Southeastern Anatolia.
We will make a sufficient number of sports facilities usable by people with disabilities.
We will open public sports facilities to the public and
ensure their efficient use by schools, amateur sports clubs and citizens.
We will support the construction of sports facilities by public and private enterprises in order to provide sports facilities for working citizens.
We will increase the number of licensed athletes, which is behind many European countries.
We will definitely build sports fields and green areas in every neighborhood.
that will employ sports and health experts with the necessary technical equipment.
We will create "Athlete Training-Health and Performance Centers"
FULL SUPPORT FOR YOUNG TALENTS
We will discover talented children and youth and direct them to active sports.
We will conduct regular "sports talent screening" across the country and
create a database of athlete profiles.
We will provide financial support to promising athletes, including social security.
We will create the necessary environment for our successful athletes to continue their education and professional sports careers together.
We will create conditions that facilitate and encourage the participation of students in all types of amateur sports through arrangements to be made in the education system.
Instead of general sports high schools, we will establish branch-based sports high schools to ensure that talented athletes receive the right education.
We will change the sports policy that is dependent on recruitment of athletes and turn to our own values.
FAIRNESS IN SPORTS REVENUES
We will amend the award regulations for national athletes to prevent injury to the public conscience
and ensure that awards are distributed on the basis of the principle of equality.
We will give all clubs an equal share of legal betting revenues.
We will increase the income of our clubs and athletes by transforming the Sponsorship Law into a structure suitable for today.
INTERNATIONAL TOURNAMENTS AND PROMOTION
We will set a realistic target date for the organization of the Olympic Games in our country and
implement a strategic action plan accordingly.
Develop sports tourism by building world-class sports facilities
and contribute to the promotion of the country.
RIGHTS-BASED LEGAL REGULATION
We will prevent the politicization of sports by ensuring that all federations have a fully autonomous structure.
We will enact the necessary laws and regulations to prevent violence in sports with the participation of all parties and
develop social projects on this issue.
We will provide the necessary conditions for sports workers to effectively benefit from social security and union rights.
Culture - Art
FREEDOM FOR CULTURE AND ART
We will put an end to arbitrary bans and censorship on cultural activities and art.
We will establish an Art Law in order to remove all legal obstacles to the liberation of art within the framework of contemporary art understanding.
We will protect the autonomy of state art institutions and
prevent them from being used for political purposes.
With broad participation, we will create a cultural strategy document that will set Turkey's future goals for culture.
FOR ART AND ARTISTS
We will ensure that the insurance premiums of art workers are paid by the Ministry of Culture and Tourism.
We will modernize the legislation on patents and intellectual property.
We will protect copyrights and make the necessary legal arrangements for an effective fight against pirated products.
We will minimize taxes on culture and arts.
We will provide social security for all our artists.
We will encourage the unionization of artists.
We will improve the personal rights and working conditions of all our artists working for the state.
We will support and encourage special art projects and alternative art forms.
We will provide the necessary material and moral support to strengthen traditional arts and artists.
We will leave the management of art institutions mainly to artists.
We will provide free translation and promotion support to our writers in order to develop Turkish literature abroad.
We will make sure that the performances of independent artists reach the public.
CULTURE AND ARTS FOR ALL
We will give more space to culture and arts in education and
ensure that more resources are allocated to such activities in schools.
We will identify children with a special talent for art at an early age and provide them with the most advanced educational opportunities to develop their talents.
We will open Culture-Art Houses in all our provincial and district centers, which will become a meeting place for those interested in all branches of art.
In order to bring our citizens together with culture and arts, we will provide support for traveling theaters, exhibitions and concerts to reach a wider audience.
We will create modern libraries with all kinds of equipment and information infrastructure that will be centers of attraction in our big cities.
We will expand and enrich mobile libraries to encourage all citizens from all walks of life to read.
CULTURAL HERITAGE
We will establish an institutional archive and preservation system to ensure that the historical, cultural and natural accumulation of our country is passed on to future generations.
We will take legal initiatives at the international level to recover cultural assets that have been illegally removed from our country. The
September 12 regime trampled on Atatürk's will and we will revive the
Turkish Language Institution and the Turkish Historical Society.
WE WILL PROTECT OUR MUSEUMS
We will develop modern museology and
implement the principle of preserving cultural heritage in the geography where it belongs.
We will accelerate virtual museum studies.
We will provide incentives and infrastructure for the development of private museums.
We will transform the Madımak Hotel into a Museum of Tolerance and Diyarbakır Prison into a Museum of Peace to ensure that the painful events of the past are not forgotten.
SPECIAL SUPPORT FOR PERFORMING ARTS AND CINEMA
We will provide incentives and tax facilities for the development of the Turkish cinema industry.
We will reduce taxes on cinema and theater box office revenues.
We will provide the necessary support to increase the competitiveness of Turkish cinema in the world market.
In provinces where there are no theater and cinema halls in Turkey, we will carry out the necessary infrastructure works with incentives or direct investment.
Terror, security and peace
A SAFE AND PEACEFUL TURKEY
We will wage an effective fight against terrorism and
ensure the security of our borders and the peace and tranquility of our country.
In our foreign relations, we will take into account the stance of countries against terrorism and
determine trade and economic cooperation accordingly.
In the fight against terrorism, we will make full use of the rights granted to Turkey in international conventions, in particular the NATO Treaty and the UN conventions on counter-terrorism, and we will
emphasize the legal obligations of other countries in this framework at the international level.
We will identify domestic and foreign financial sources of terrorism
and prevent the transfer of resources.
We will take effective protection measures against terrorism in various regions of our country
and ensure close cooperation and coordination with NGOs and all relevant organizations for this purpose.
We will take all measures to eliminate the victimization of our citizens who have been harmed by terrorism.
NEW SECURITY SYSTEM IN COOPERATION WITH THE COMMUNITY
Based on trust in citizens and society, we will ensure a renewal that will ensure that citizens trust the state and that public authority is fully established.
Instead of only "armed struggle" in the fight against terrorism, we will make a holistic understanding and will to fight against terrorism dominant with the support of all organs of the state, the public and the media.
We will ensure 24-hour continuous communication and interaction between the state and the public in all public services.
MORE RIGHTS FOR SECURITY PERSONNEL
We will provide the police with every opportunity for effective work.
We will improve the personal rights and working conditions of the police.
We will provide more effective psychological support for the police to continue their difficult work.
It will create the necessary environment for the Security Forces to perform their duties in the most effective way,
We will provide all administrative, financial and technical conditions.
We will exclude the Security Forces from all political structures and
purify them from interest relations and organized sieges.
We will protect the families of our military, gendarmerie and police martyrs and our veterans.
We will make financial and institutional arrangements to ensure that the families of our martyrs and veterans live healthy and secure lives throughout their lives and that their children's education at all levels is guaranteed.
Daylight management
CONTEMPORARY PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION
We will adopt the EU acquis as a roadmap for the modernization of public administration.
Encourage scrutiny of public administration by civil society and professional organizations, particularly the press and media,
make public oversight independent
and in line with international standards.
We will develop the e-government infrastructure that will ensure the interconnection and harmonization of all public institutions and
ensure the effective use of this service.
Except in cases of necessity, we will provide services over the internet and telephone, and if we need
the signature or declaration of the citizen, we will deliver services to the residence of the citizen with mobile teams.
We will end cronyism and arbitrariness in public administration.
We will prioritize merit in the bureaucracy.
We will end the system of appointments based on personal relationships and religious and ethnic political connections.
TRANSPARENCY AND ACCOUNTABILITY
We will ensure transparency in the public sector to fight corruption effectively.
We will ensure that citizens are informed at all levels of decision-making and can hold public officials to account.
We will use all the possibilities of developing technology to ensure information sharing and participation.
We will revise the law on access to information,
remove arbitrary exceptions
and differentiate between the institution that discloses information and the institution that decides on confidentiality.
We will ensure that public officials are in the minority and civil society representatives are in the majority in access to information and ethics committees.
We will ensure the security of the information created electronically by public institutions as soon as possible.
We will abolish the immunity of bureaucrats and politicians, the most important obstacle to accountability, and
narrow the concept of trade secrets in public affairs.
We will make it compulsory for all public administrators, especially ministers, MPs and local administrators, to submit their current declarations of assets to the public on the internet.
We will base public administration on the citizen's declaration.
We will simplify regulatory legislation, especially tax legislation, and clearly
define the powers and responsibilities of public officials in every position.
EFFECTIVE SUPERVISION
We will remove obstacles to the effective fight against corruption and irregularities by the legislature, executive and judiciary.
We will establish an Accounts Committee in parliament, chaired by the opposition.
We will ensure that the inspection system is preventive, corrective and directive.
We will ensure that those who commit bribery and misconduct in public administration are swiftly prosecuted and punished.
We will activate civilian oversight, particularly of the media and civil society organizations.
We will subject all acts and actions of the executive to judicial review.
We will eliminate exceptions in this area and ensure full implementation of judicial decisions.
We will increase the penalties for bribery and corruption and
abolish the statute of limitations for these crimes.
We will restructure the Court of Accounts,
expand its powers and make it more effective.
We will definitely audit foundations and associations that are authorized to collect donations and use public funds.
We will make legal arrangements to prevent the use of international agreements as a way to close the way to audit tenders.
PUBLIC PROCUREMENT SYSTEM REFORM
We will reorganize the Public Procurement Law on the basis of EU standards.
We will make public tenders and procurement transparent and
open to fair competition.
We will treat all companies equally in public tenders and
will not give privileges to any person or institution.
We will include all public institutions and organizations, including energy, telecommunications and transportation, under the procurement law.
We will ensure that non-competitive exceptional procurement methods, which have become a source of corruption and have reached 30% of total public procurement, are used for their intended purpose
We will rapidly implement the electronic procurement system in public procurement.
We will save at least 10% (approximately 12 Billion TL) in public procurement each year through changes to the public procurement system.
We will make all privatization transactions transparent with an approach that evaluates the practices before and after privatization tenders together
HONEST LOCAL GOVERNMENTS
Local governments to take their tenders, zoning changes or transactions and decisions that will lead to rent formation in processes open to civil society organizations
and, where necessary, require it to resort to the option of local referendum.
We will make the activities of municipal economic enterprises transparent
and ensure effective supervision of these institutions We
will prohibit public institutions and especially municipalities from receiving donations from private and legal persons who have direct or indirect interest relations with them.
FAIR MARKETS
We will bring efficiency to the functioning of the Competition Authority.
We will prevent abuse of dominant position in the markets.
We will reorganize the Capital Markets Board Law for the benefit and security of small investors.
We will never allow manipulation in the ISE and capital markets.
CORRUPTION ALLEGATIONS TO BE INVESTIGATED
Businesses suspected to have been privatized below their value and to have made unfair profits after privatization;
Public tenders regularly awarded to certain companies through non-competitive negotiated tenders;
TOKİ's housing construction works in return for land without any legal basis;
Energy contracts made through international agreements in order to avoid tenders;
One-night customs arrangements with the aim of transferring resources to certain companies;
tender procedures during coal and food aids;
tenders from metropolitan municipalities with the aim of transferring resources to certain media groups;
allegations of gold and fuel smuggling.
- For modern settlements and developed urban society...
Developing regions, urbanizing Anatolia, world city Istanbul
Under CHP rule, the basic principles of the new municipalism approach centered on social policies, environmental policies and entrepreneurship will be reintroduced in local governments.
In this way, local governments will regain their resource-creating, productive, consumption-regulating, solidaristic and democratic character.
Municipalities will be saved from being an instrument of rent creation.
The wasting of public resources and powers in the name of unjust gains that serve certain interest groups will be prevented.
Thanks to the publicization of urban rent, these resources will be returned to city dwellers as services.
In order to achieve this, all decision-making processes, especially zoning plans, will be transformed into a transparent and accountable structure and functioning.
The urban transformation process will be restructured in harmony with nature and the city as a whole, and with an understanding that respects historical, cultural and social heritage.
Necessary measures will be taken to ensure that the resource allocation of local governments is free from all kinds of ideological and partisan discrimination.
Service areas of local governments will be clearly defined, and
ambiguities and overlaps of authority in these areas will be prevented.
Instead of a local development approach based on competition among local units, inter-city solidarity mechanisms based on cooperation and exchange of experience in service delivery will be implemented.
It will be built in a democratic and participatory perspective with the idea that local governments are the cradle of democracy.
In particular, the "neighborhood" will be highlighted as a collective representation unit, paving the way for urban residents to come together at the grassroots level to express their demands, expectations and needs.
Steps will be taken to increase the function of the local press in producing and circulating information about the city.
Direct participation mechanisms such as referendum and recall will be implemented to ensure that the people have a direct say in governance.
In addition to enriching and diversifying the geography of production and consumption in all our cities, CHP will focus on the
establishment of rich public spaces such as universities, libraries, congress centers, sports halls and stadiums, especially educational institutions, and on
increasing the quantity and quality of basic art activities, cultural activities and sports activities.
In other words, CHP will create an environment in cities where a real urban culture is presented to citizens.
In Turkey, interregional inequalities are constantly increasing
and this situation leads to many problems such as intensive migration from rural to urban and between cities, social injustice, waste of resources, and cultural incompatibilities.
Central Anatolia, Eastern and Southeastern Anatolia and the Black Sea Region have experienced relative stagnation and even economic decline over the last decade.
As a result of this stagnation and decline, these regions emigrated,
their number of parliamentary seats declined
and consequently lost political representation.
In order to prevent this blood loss, the CHP will implement the "Southeastern and Eastern Anatolia", "Black Sea" and "Central Anatolia" development plans as soon as possible.
CHP supports regional economic and social development
and eliminating inequalities between regions as priority objectives.
Turkey has world-class resources in terms of agricultural potential.
With this in mind, strengthening the agricultural sector
and ensuring rural development is an indispensable policy for CHP.
On the other hand, considering that most of our population now lives in cities, CHP sees Turkey primarily as an urban society.
From this point of view, solving many problems of our cities such as poverty, unemployment, housing, infrastructure and environment are among our main priorities.
CHP puts forward a vision for the economic and social development of our country that envisages faster development of our cities in cooperation with each other.
Under CHP rule, urban growth centers will be established all over Turkey
and economic cooperation will be ensured between these centers and their sub-centers.
CHP will turn twenty cities in different geographical regions of Turkey into centers of economic attraction.
Therefore, it will make these cities with a population of one million people important actors of the national and international economy by concentrating them in certain activities according to their wealth.
Another aim of this breakthrough is to ensure the healthy urbanization of Anatolia and reduce the burden on our major metropolises.
Local governments
We will remove the reservations to the Council of Europe's Charter of Local Authorities and
reform local governments.
We will never allow central government institutions to discriminate between municipalities and we
will guarantee this neutrality by law.
We will provide local governments with a stronger administrative and financial structure within the unitary state.
We will largely free local governments from financial dependence on the center and create a new financial structure based on own resources.
We will establish a structure where central governments will share services with local administrations, not to avoid responsibility but to ensure efficiency in public services.
We will ensure service integrity between central and local governments.
We will establish city reconciliation boards that will function in transparent structures where disputes between local governments and citizens will be resolved without resorting to the judiciary.
Integrity and harmony will be ensured between planning legislation and local government legislation,
We will carry out a comprehensive reform of zoning legislation.
We will put an end to "indebted municipalism" that creates deeper relations of dependency.
We will intervene in processes of financial dependency that pit weak local governments against powerful multinational corporations and financial institutions.
STRONGER MUNICIPALITIES
We will reopen municipalities that were closed on the grounds that they were first-tier municipalities or had a population below 2 thousand.
We will expand the boundaries of municipalities and
increase the number of municipalities.
We will remove population as the sole criterion for establishing municipalities and allocating resources, and will take into account
We will also take into account the historical and geographical situation, economic and social structure of the regions and the functions between settlements.
We will increase the revenues of local governments to enable them to fulfill the duties assigned to them.
Within the framework of the "All Turkey Municipality" approach, we will associate villages with a municipal administration and
give them a share from the General Budget Tax Revenues.
MUKHTAR SYSTEM WILL GAIN THE IMPORTANCE IT DESERVES
We will raise the salaries of mukhtars to the level of net minimum wage and
ensure that their social security premiums are paid by the state.
We will create the necessary infrastructure for mukhtars to provide services according to the requirements of the age, and
improve their personal rights and working conditions.
We will restructure mukhtars as the most extreme service unit and
ensure that neighborhood mukhtars have a voice in municipal councils.
In big cities, it will reduce the size of neighborhood mukhtars' offices by dividing large neighborhoods,
over time, we will organize it so that it does not exceed 10,000 inhabitants.
We will also give Muhtars active roles in Neighborhood Councils.
Neighborhood mukhtars will have a voice in Municipal Assemblies and village mukhtars in Provincial General Assemblies.
Better governance of villages by amending the Village Law,
village mukhtars to better fulfill their function as representatives of the state in the village,
We will ensure that village guards are reintroduced in villages where they are needed.
Urbanization and housing
EFFECTIVE URBANIZATION
We will create the Ministry of Housing and Urbanization.
We will involve institutions such as professional chambers, universities and civil society organizations in the formulation and implementation of urban policies.
We will provide all our provinces and districts with healthy drinking water and an adequate sewerage network.
We will implement a long-term settlement plan that is sensitive to fault lines.
We will meet the urban physical and social infrastructure needs that diversify in parallel with the increasing population, economic, social and technological developments within a modern planning approach.
We will prevent the sale of buildings such as schools, hospitals and station buildings that have become an integral part of the city identity.
HOUSING ATTRACTION
We will develop high quality, low-cost, environmentally friendly housing projects with smart designs that reinforce the spirit of social cohesion.
Our main priority will be to make low- and middle-income citizens homeowners.
We will build cheap rental housing for our citizens who do not have the opportunity to own a house or who prefer not to do so.
We will raise the standards of green areas, parking lots and social facilities, and
take effective measures against earthquakes and fire.
QUALITY CHEAP HOUSING FOR ALL
It will increase housing loans through the operation of the mortgage system,
will double the share of these loans in total loans,
We will increase it to over 20%.
We will provide loans up to 100% of the housing cost for low and middle-income citizens.
EARTHQUAKE READY, ROBUST BUILDINGS
We will take it upon ourselves to prepare cities for earthquakes in regions with high earthquake risk, particularly Istanbul and the Marmara Region.
We will specifically address the urban structure of Istanbul and the housing problem.
We will quickly solve the problem of earthquake housing, which is the fearful dream of our citizens in Istanbul.
For this purpose, we will provide all opportunities for the renovation of 120 thousand buildings with high earthquake risk in Istanbul between 2011 and 2015.
URBAN TRANSFORMATION
We will accelerate the urban transformation model, which was first developed and put into practice by social democratic municipalities.
Consolidation of buildings in large urban areas
and its upgrading.
We will reduce the share of land prices in housing costs through urban transformation and urban renewal projects.
We will ensure that our citizens are organized and directly participate in the decision-making processes of urban transformation projects through their representatives.
COOPERATIVES TO BE REVITALIZED
Ignoring small and medium-sized companies that have worked for years in the construction sector
and we will put an end to the neglect of cooperatives with new organizational arrangements.
Anatolia urbanizing with attraction centers
We will turn the Adana-Mersin Region into a Singapore-wide trade center.
With the completion of the necessary infrastructure projects, we will make the region, which is the meeting point of Caspian, Russian and Middle Eastern oil and natural gas resources, an export center for petrochemicals, iron-steel, agro-industry and fertilizers to the whole world, especially to the Middle East and Africa, and we will
give the region the same function as Singapore.
We will structure the Kars-Ardahan-Iğdır Region as an important logistics base on the goods trade route between China and Europe and between the Caucasus and Iran and Europe.
Completion of the Kars-Tbilisi-Baku and Kars-Iğdır-Nakhchivan railway projects,
the establishment of transportation systems such as ro-ro and ro-la in parallel with these,
Shifting some of Turkey's truck park capacity to the region
and we will make it one of the most important logistics centers on the East-West trade corridor with the creation of warehouses, storage facilities and customs areas.
Thus, we will take an important step for Turkey to reach its logistics potential, which is estimated at one hundred billion dollars.
We will turn Izmir into a health tourism center like Thailand.
By making the necessary legal arrangements, we will make Izmir, which has both the capacity to provide health services and a strong tourism potential and infrastructure, a globally recognized health tourism center.
Thus, we will ensure that Izmir gets at least a ten percent share of the global medical tourism pie, which exceeds one hundred billion dollars, and hosts over one million patient-tourists.
In parallel, we will transform Izmir into a biomedical industry giant that produces on a global scale, triggered by the increase in health tourism capacity.
We will ensure that Samsun becomes a brand city like Shanghai in the field of shipbuilding and repair industry.
Considering the increasing commercial importance of the Black Sea, the maritime trade potential in the region and the density of ship traffic, we will complete the necessary infrastructure investments by the state to make Samsun, which is highly suitable for being a shipbuilding and repair industry center, a brand city in this field.
We will establish a free zone for the shipbuilding industry in the region,
thus ensuring the development of the machinery manufacturing industry.
We will ensure that the world hazelnut price is determined in Trabzon-Ordu-Giresun Region, not in Germany.
We will implement licensed warehousing in the region where a significant part of the world's hazelnut production is realized
and we will establish a hazelnut exchange where world hazelnut prices are determined.
In parallel, we will also develop the food industry that uses hazelnuts as an input.
We will turn the Diyarbakır-Mardin-Adıyaman-Urfa region into a center of faith, culture and gourmet tourism.
Diyarbakır's Walled City will be emptied and necessary restoration work will be carried out
, and boutique hotels, restaurants, art galleries and museums will be built in the Walled City, turning the area into a tourism center.
The capacity of Mardin, Adıyaman and Urfa to host tourists will be increased,
historical sites will be rapidly restored, and
strong incentives will be provided to utilize the region's food culture potential for tourism purposes.
Promotion and marketing of the region as a package will be ensured to ensure that tourists stay for longer than one or two days.
Strong capital Ankara
We will not allow the capital to be eviscerated.
We will strengthen Ankara's functions as a capital city and
pave the way for Ankara, as a center of education, universities and planning institutions, to lead all Anatolian cities in science, R&D and high technology.
We will make Ankara the air, land and rail transportation hub of Anatolia and Turkey's main communication center.
We will make Ankara an ideal urbanization model for all Anatolian cities to follow.
World city Istanbul
We will make Istanbul one of the three leading global cities in Europe, alongside London and Paris.
We will adopt a growth policy for Istanbul that respects nature and envisages healthy development with a focus on the service sector based on a qualified workforce.
We will create an Istanbul that creates high added value and competes with world cities in culture, scientific research and creativity.
We will develop our vision and policies for Istanbul in line with the principle of reducing population pressure on the city.
"CREATIVE CITY" ISTANBUL
With its engineers, academics, artists, media members, designers, architects, thought leaders, analysts, bankers, consultants and all other skilled workforce, we will transform Istanbul into an inspiring, brand and design-oriented "creative city", a leader in innovation.
We will support all segments of society that will develop Istanbul's creative city characteristic; we will
act with full awareness and determination to create a professional and urban living environment where they can develop themselves in the best way possible.
CITY OF INFORMATION ISTANBUL
We will develop the creative sector in Istanbul in terms of size and capacity and make it the driving force of the city's economic dynamism.
We will ensure that Istanbul becomes a rapidly prospering city, attracting the highest level of visitors, skilled labor and investment from all over Turkey, the region and the world.
We will make Istanbul the center of high quality education and vocational training institutions worldwide.
We will invest in the knowledge economy, especially in information technology infrastructure, which is the most important factor that increases skilled human capital in Istanbul.
We will aim to make Istanbul one of the main bases in Europe for R&D spending by the public and private sectors.
INTELLECTUAL CITY ISTANBUL
We will make Istanbul one of the world's leading cities and increase its desirability for skilled labor and creative classes.
While supporting the IT economy in Istanbul, we will simultaneously promote the cultural industry.
We will make the city a global cultural center with its historical texture, natural beauties and geographical location.
We will support all cultural aspects of Istanbul and
We will present to the whole world the image of a vibrant city with its cafes, theater halls, art galleries, restaurants serving world cuisines and local cuisine, concert halls, antique galleries, cinema studios, design workshops, festival areas and special marketplaces.
CITY OF CULTURE ISTANBUL
We will create an Istanbul where all kinds of people are accepted, where different identities live in peace and where diversity is seen as a positive force.
We will make Istanbul a representative of tolerance in the region where differences live in harmony.
For a multicultural urban environment that will increase creative activities and productivity, we will adopt a broad understanding of tolerance by local governments as an indispensable prerequisite for a vibrant and enriched urban life.
We will approach Istanbul as a tolerant city project where every religion, sect, ethnic group, race, sexual orientation, gender and nationality can live freely.
ISTANBUL, A SAFE CITY WITH STRONG INFRASTRUCTURE
We will solve all infrastructure problems of Istanbul, especially transportation problems, and
ensure that it is among the cities with the highest quality of life in Europe.
It will bring the city's underground rail transportation infrastructure to the level of world cities, while maintaining the priority of preserving the historical and cultural texture,
We will expand the metro network to at least 80 km in the shortest time possible.
We will transform maritime transportation from a weak alternative to land transportation and
place it at the center of Istanbul's transportation network.
In Istanbul, where every developed city in the world lacks squares where common culture flourishes and the character of cities is formed, we will create spaces where Istanbulites can exist in public space.
We will save the green from being slaughtered and the city from desertification by evaluating all alternatives, including floating viaducts and the reconstruction of existing bridges instead of the 3rd bridge project, which threatens the nature of Istanbul and will drag the transportation problem into insolubility.
We will fully implement the earthquake recovery plan without losing a moment to prepare Istanbul for a possible disaster in the best possible way.
Regional development
In order to redress regional imbalances, balance demographic movements and reduce service costs, we will designate some provincial centers as regional development centers
and intensify infrastructure services and investments in these centers.
We will accelerate public infrastructure investments in underdeveloped regions, especially in education, health and transportation.
We will ensure the integration of these regions and localities into the national and international economy through private initiatives, private-public partnerships and, where these are not sufficient, through direct public enterprises.
We will rapidly prepare industrial inventories in underdeveloped regions and
establish regional production and development clusters with appropriate sectoral characteristics
We will facilitate the access of underdeveloped regions to financial resources.
Enhancing Turkey's alignment with EU regional policies
and we will ensure that the funds associated with this process are used more widely and more efficiently.
In order to rapidly reduce the economic and social development gap between regions, we will rapidly complete all regional development projects under implementation, particularly GAP, DAP, DOKAP, ZBK, YHGP.
It will increase the effectiveness of Development Agencies,
We will make it more participatory and democratic by increasing local participation.
We will make Development Agencies more functional by redefining their areas of responsibility and the geographical units they cover.
THE RICHES OF THE EASTERN AND SOUTHEASTERN ANATOLIA REGIONS WILL FIND VALUE
We will encourage investments in this region, which has a very high solar energy capacity,
and establish a high-tech solar cell industry here.
To increase the production and employment capacity of the region,
We will create and develop industrial clusters based on petrochemicals in order to substitute the rapidly increasing imports of these products.
We will remove sugar factories from the scope of privatization
and revive the sugar industry.
We will utilize the Livestock and Meat Products Authority and sugar factories to restore livestock to its former strength.
We will launch the school milk program and provide milk every day to at least 500,000 school children in the region.
We will not leave the underground riches of the region idle, and
we will bring the mining sector in the region to the highest level.
CORRECT AND APPROPRIATE INCENTIVES
We will provide zero-interest and long-term loans for selected investments in the East and Southeast.
We will launch a new, concrete and effective sector-based Investment Incentive scheme.
We will provide strong incentives for domestic and foreign capital to invest directly in new plants and factories.
It will support SMEs and family businesses in the region,
We will expand the Small Enterprise Loan.
We will rapidly establish an institutional structure that can deliver economic incentives and social assistance for development directly to the people of the region, the unemployed and the poor.
REGIONAL PLANNING
We will invest in universities, hospitals, sports facilities, culture, arts and entertainment centers that will turn Gaziantep, Diyarbakır, Erzurum and Van into centers of attraction for the entire Middle East region.
We will support the development of GAP's priority and sustainable sectors such as renewable energy, organic agriculture, organic textiles, organic food, technology and tourism through sectoral clusters.
We will rapidly address socio-economic infrastructure deficiencies in the entire region, particularly in the areas of education, health, transportation, communications and communication.
We will accelerate voluntary return to evacuated villages within the framework of security and socio-economic development measures.
We will rapidly complete the Southeastern Anatolia Project (GAP) in a balanced manner with all its dimensions.
We will prevent the misuse of resources allocated to GAP.
We will demine mined lands and give them to landless villagers.
We will develop export-oriented organic agriculture projects in these lands.
REGIONAL INTEGRATION
In order to integrate the region with Turkey and neighboring countries, we will open it to inland regions, Mediterranean and Black Sea ports and neighboring countries with railway investments totaling more than 16 billion TL.
We will transform the East and Southeast into a world-class logistics hub.
We will rapidly complete the Kars-Tbilisi railway and develop economic and commercial relations between Eastern Anatolia and the Caucasus and Central Asia.
Support for attracting international direct investments to the region to capitalize on the trade potential of the Middle East and the Gulf region
and we will accelerate promotion.
We will finish the Ankara-Diyarbakır high speed train line.
For a just and safe world...
Foreign policy based on peace, democracy and development
Under CHP rule, Turkey's foreign policy will be shaped on the basis of values that aim to create a just world for all people.
CHP and Turkey know their responsibilities in the international community,
cooperating in all areas to achieve common goals,
who set an example with his diplomatic courtesy,
will stand out as a reliable and reputable member.
CHP will make Turkey a regional center of peace, development and democracy.
CHP foreign policy will be 'citizen-centered'.
The main axis of the CHP's foreign policy is to increase the security and prosperity of the citizens of the Republic of Turkey, wherever they live in the world.
To this end, CHP will ensure that the legitimate rights of our citizens arising from international law are defended and protected in the most effective manner before every country and on every ground.
The CHP believes that foreign policy should protect the rights and interests of every citizen.
Therefore, it is important to seek the views of all segments of society when formulating foreign policy,
to ensure their interest and contribution.
Under the CHP government, a mechanism of exchange of views on foreign policy issues will be established by ensuring a regular flow of information with all relevant institutions and organizations, especially the political parties with a group in the Grand National Assembly of Turkey.
Civil society's contribution to foreign policy decision-making will be activated
and institutionalized.
In other words, under the CHP government, the foreign policy field will be democratized, just like every other policy field.
The CHP's 'values-based foreign policy' has its intellectual and historical sources in the history of the Republic and social democracy.
In this context, the 10 main principles that will shed light on the CHP's foreign policy can be listed as follows: CHP's foreign policy will be peaceful.
Pacifism is one of the most important goals that our founding leader Mustafa Kemal Atatürk set for us with the phrase "peace at home, peace in the world".
In this context, the CHP will ensure that all foreign policy problems are resolved peacefully and diplomatically.
The use of force will not be an option unless Turkey is subjected to an armed attack or we are requested to do so by the international community in accordance with international law.
Under CHP rule, Turkey's foreign policy will be egalitarian.
Turkey will pay attention to the principles that every country and every nation, regardless of its size and power, is equal, has equal rights and should be respected equally.
Turkey will not be a "big brother" to any country, but will approach all its interlocutors as "equal partners".
In a CHP government, we will think about what we can learn together with every partner, every neighbor.
Another fundamental principle of Turkish foreign policy will be respect for human rights and freedoms.
Turkey will provide effective support to all efforts carried out by international institutions, in accordance with international law, to ensure that human rights values and rules prevail in every corner of the world.
In this sense, Turkey will set an example for its neighbors and the region by fully protecting human rights in its own country and deepening democracy.
CHP's foreign policy will be solidarist.
Solidarity with underdeveloped and developing countries is vital for the CHP, a member of the Socialist International, which aims to build a more just world.
CHP will support steps to ensure that every country gets its fair share of the world's prosperity and that global institutions and rules lay the groundwork for fair representation and sharing.
Contribute to the reform of global governance institutions, in particular the United Nations, accordingly.
With one foot in the developed world and one foot in the developing world, Turkey will be a key facilitator for a cooperative relationship between these two groups.
Another indispensable principle of Turkey's foreign policy will be respect for international law
and trust in multilateral institutions.
The CHP believes that ensuring the rule of law is vital for ensuring social peace and order both within and between countries.
International law constitutes the most important basis of legitimacy in international relations.
The diligence of the founders of the Republic, who were fully aware of this understanding, to fulfill the debts arising from international law from the earliest days of the country's history is still remembered.
CHP will continue this legacy
and be a model country by fully respecting its international obligations in every field.
Another important issue necessitated by international law and globalization is that countries should refrain from making unilateral decisions and imposing them on other countries
, and that decisions affecting international relations should be taken in multilateral institutions or groups, in consultation with stakeholders and in cooperation.
The CHP will follow this principle in all its regional and global policies and will
refrain from imposing decisions.
CHP believes that multilateral institutions are the most important tool for developing appropriate solutions in today's transboundary world, where all problems, from trade to the environment, from finance to migration, are transboundary in nature.
One of the most important principles of the foreign policy to be implemented under the CHP is integrationism.
Commercial, financial, cultural and scientific integration between countries, as seen in the case of the European Union (EU), goes beyond classical cooperation
and yields much more lasting and effective results.
With such integrations, both increasing welfare
and consolidating peace is an important international goal for social democrats.
With this understanding, CHP will resolutely continue its efforts to integrate with the EU,
also accelerate its efforts to integrate regionally.
In this context, the conclusion of free trade agreements, agreements on mutual promotion and protection of investments, free movement arrangements, scientific, cultural and educational cooperation agreements will be accelerated
and more importantly, effective implementation of these agreements will be ensured.
With these integration efforts, Turkey will be placed at the center of global mobility on the North-South and East-West axes.
With CHP policies, Turkey will not only open up to the world, but also integrate with the world.
A very important area that needs to be emphasized in the CHP's integrationist policies is economic diplomacy.
The qualifications and quantity of foreign economic relations experts will be increased.
Legal and institutional facilities will be increased to enable entrepreneurs who trade and invest abroad to report obstacles and receive state protection.
Protecting the legitimate rights of our entrepreneurs and increasing investment opportunities will be among our prioritized foreign policy objectives.
The European orientation, which was deeply rooted in the history of Turkish foreign policy, would be continued under the CHP government.
CHP defines Europe as a set of values based on democracy, human rights and the social state.
Being part of a Europe defined in this way will strengthen Turkey.
Turkey's EU accession process came to a standstill due to the mistakes of the AKP government and the behavior of other conservative parties in Europe.
The only thing that can save this process is the cooperation of the CHP and other European social democratic parties whose ideas are rooted in universalism.
CHP initiated Turkey's candidacy for EU membership and
CHP will bring this process to a happy end.
As a social democratic party that builds its ties with Europe on universal values, another important principle that the CHP will emphasize in its foreign policy will be universalism.
The AKP, which claims to oppose the clash of civilizations thesis, maintains an introverted civilizationalist discourse and
is influenced by its religious or ethnic-based prejudices in determining its policies.
Under a CHP government, this understanding will end and
relations with all countries will be based on universal values.
The CHP will resolutely continue its policy of building regional peace and security alliances, one of the most important features of the Republican foreign policy.
As seen in examples such as the Sadabad Pact, the Balkan Pact, and Turkish-Greek relations during the Atatürk-Venizelos period, the decision-makers of the Republic have always attached special importance to establishing peace and security alliances in their immediate regions.
The Cold War period, with its structural changes, made it impossible to pursue this policy.
A return to this policy with the end of the Cold War would mean the continuation of a rational Republican policy.
CHP will work to make all our neighbors our allies as well.
Finally, the CHP's foreign policy will be shaped on the basis of realism.
There will be no room for adventurism, hamas, or irresponsible behavior based on domestic political concerns in CHP foreign policy.
The CHP will reject the approach that tries to do everything at the same time in foreign policy without achieving positive results in any area, and will emphasize
a policy with well-defined priorities, focusing its energy on its priorities and respecting the courtesy required by diplomatic life.
With its consistent values-based and citizen-centered policies, the CHP will repair relations damaged under the AKP, pave the
way for Turkey's EU membership
and make Turkey a regional center of peace, development and democracy.
EU MEMBERSHIP
CHP is in favor of Turkey's EU membership.
It sees EU membership as a social transformation project for the democratization of Turkey and the readiness of its economy for the information age.
CHP started Turkey's EU process and
CHP will bring it to a happy end.
The CHP, together with European social democrats, will overcome the current stalemate in Turkey-EU relations through discourse based on universal values.
Under CHP leadership, Turkey will develop projects for the future of the EU until EU membership is realized,
will actively participate in the debate on the future EU.
CHP believes that social democrats should unite under the umbrella of the EU to establish a just, peaceful and libertarian order in the world.
In our relations with the EU, we will aim for full membership on equal terms with other members.
We will resolutely demand that EU membership conditions are applied equally to all candidate states, in line with the ideal of a solidary Europe.
With this understanding, we will strongly support the acceleration and finalization of a reform process in line with EU legislation and the practices of other member states.
First and foremost, we will put an end to justified concerns that Turkey is moving away from compliance with the Copenhagen criteria by implementing liberal democracy with all its institutions and institutions.
We will insist on the lifting of EU restrictions on free movement, agricultural subsidies, regional development.
Linking Turkey's EU membership to the Cyprus issue;
We will not accept our accession process being tied to preconditions and unilateral concessions.
On the Cyprus issue, we will underline in every environment that taking into account the legitimate demands of the Turkish Cypriot people by the EU authorities is the most appropriate policy for European ideals.
Together with all our social democratic partners, we will work to explain to the people of Europe that Turkey's full membership of the EU is the best way to disprove the clash of civilizations political movements whose visibility is reaching alarming proportions.
RELATIONS WITH THE USA
We will overcome the difficulties in relations with the US in recent years and move forward with a new understanding based on equality, mutual respect and observing each other's legitimate interests.
Not limited to strategic and military relations with the US,
We will build a new and modern partnership, balanced and open to economic and cultural interaction.
To counterbalance the growing anti-Americanism in Turkey, we will implement confidence-building measures such as the exchange of students, businesspeople and local officials between Turkey and the US, and the organization of joint cultural and artistic events.
MEMBERSHIP IN INTERNATIONAL ORGANIZATIONS AND ALLIANCE RELATIONS:
We will make effective contributions to the international organizations of which Turkey is a member, not only on our own national problems, but also on all issues of interest to these organizations.
We will demonstrate at every opportunity that we are a responsible member of the international community.
To preserve world peace, we will put at the center of our policy the prohibition of all countries from using or threatening to use force as enshrined in the UN Charter, and we will
demand that all other states fully respect this prohibition.
All members of international organizations such as the UN, Council of Europe, OSCE, OECD, UNESCO, OIC, BSEC, etc. to act in equality,
to contribute
and we will advocate for their benefit.
We will support efforts to ensure that such organizations are no longer an arena for great powers.
A key condition for maintaining world peace is to close the economic gaps between countries.
We will support new international initiatives and arrangements to establish a new and equitable economic order in the world.
We will ensure that Turkey plays a leading role in the design of these initiatives and arrangements We will
continue to strengthen our relations with NATO, of which we are an active member.
NATO effectively fulfills its mandate to maintain peace and stability as a deterrent force
and we will support a redefinition of NATO's position in today's environment, with greater emphasis on maintaining international peace and security.
CYPRUS
CHP will support all negotiations for a just settlement of the Cyprus problem acceptable to both the Greek and Turkish Cypriot sides.
CHP calls for a permanent solution to the Cyprus problem
and will work with all its strength to make the Eastern Mediterranean a basin of peace.
Turkey believes that the Cyprus problem should be solved by preserving the acquired rights of the TRNC and the Turkish people of Northern Cyprus.
and political equality of Turkish Cypriots and Greek Cypriots.
The Turkish Cypriots are the basis of Turkey's presence and guarantor rights in Cyprus.
Turkey's relations with the TRNC will develop in accordance with the principle of the sovereign equality of the Turkish Cypriots, respecting the democratic will of the Turkish Cypriots and not interfering in their internal affairs.
Turkey will continue to support Turkish Cypriots as long as they want to.
In this context, the CHP will be criticizing the AKP administration's threats of financial and economic sanctions against the Turkish Cypriot people, who are struggling with international embargoes.
and strongly condemns any discourse that would hurt the dignity of Turkish Cypriots.
The TRNC, an independent and democratic state recognized by the Republic of Turkey, will be fully respected as required by the rules of international diplomacy and the sovereign equality of states.
The Greek Administration of Southern Cyprus does not represent Turkish Cypriots.
Turkish Cypriots were deprived of their right to representation in the international arena.
Until Turkish Cypriots gain equal representation, Turkey will continue to provide all necessary support for their representation in all areas.
All political, diplomatic and legal initiatives will be taken to lift the embargoes against the TRNC and the practices that result in the isolation of the Turkish Cypriots from the world.
In the event that a just and lasting peace in Cyprus, based on the equality of the two peoples of the island, is not achieved within a reasonable period of time, efforts will be stepped up for the international acceptance and recognition of the TRNC.
TURKISH-GREEK RELATIONS
In order to improve Greek-Turkish relations, we will seek a solution to the Aegean problem through constructive dialogue and negotiations and on the basis of equity.
We will underline that there is no other way to solve the problem except through mutual agreement and peaceful problem-solving techniques.
The Aegean Sea will be transformed into an area that unites our peoples economically, socially and culturally, rather than separating them.
For this purpose, exchange programs between students, businessmen and local administrators will be organized especially between the settlements located on the Aegean Sea coast and the Greek islands.
All measures will be taken to increase border trade.
Members of the Greek minority living in Turkey are equal citizens of the Republic of Turkey.
The libertarian democracy that will be established will guarantee their full enjoyment of all civil, political, economic, social and cultural rights and the rights of minorities.
As an important indicator of the special importance we attach to the protection of human rights on a global and regional basis, we will demonstrate political commitment to protect the rights and interests of the Turkish population living in Western Thrace, deriving from the Treaty of Lausanne and other international treaties.
MIDDLE EAST
The CHP believes that the main cause of instability and turmoil in the Middle East and adjacent regions is the ongoing Palestinian conflict.
It considers that the resolution of the conflict is a major step towards bringing peace and stability to the region and beyond.
With this understanding, it advocates the need for Turkey to make a realistic and active contribution to all peace efforts to resolve this conflict.
To resolve the Israeli-Palestinian conflict within the framework of UN resolutions in a way that ends the victimization of the Palestinian people
and we will support fruitful engagement with all relevant parties to find a lasting solution on the basis of two states.
We will support the peaceful creation by all societies in the Middle East of conditions in which they can live in systems based on human rights, democracy and social justice.
We will support all progress in democratization, press freedom, women's rights and civil society in the region.
Destabilize the region
and we will not see external interventions that could lead to new crises as a solution.
We will pursue a policy that respects all beliefs and parties to Middle East conflicts, while adopting humanitarian and equitable principles to shape solutions.
We will take care to formulate our active policies on the Middle East in a way that will not cause Turkey to lose credibility and credibility in the eyes of the parties.
To establish lasting friendships with all Middle Eastern and Islamic countries without exception, especially those in our immediate neighborhood
and support the development of economic relations.
In order to further improve trade and investment relations with the countries in the region, foreign trade experts who are well versed in the languages, economic and legal structures of these countries will be trained
and the number of trade attachés will be increased.
IRAQ
CHP believes that the protection of Iraq's sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity is of vital importance not only for this country but also for the entire region.
The reconstruction of Iraq in line with modern and universal values, in which all layers of Iraqi society will be fairly represented
and we will give the Iraqi people every support to ensure that this results in the establishment of a participatory democracy in which their rights are protected.
We will respect the political order in Iraq envisaged by the Constitution adopted by popular vote.
As long as the constitutionally legitimate administrative units within this political order remain committed to Iraq's sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity, we will develop our contacts and relations with the Central Iraqi Government and local administrations in every field required by the common interests of Turkey and Iraq, in accordance with the distribution of authority envisaged by the Iraqi Constitution.
We will strongly advocate non-interference in Iraq's internal affairs by regional or extra-regional countries.
Iraq to prevent any action or initiative against the public order and territorial integrity of its neighbors;
We will expect that Iraq will not allow any threat to be directed against Turkey from its territory.
With this understanding, we will support the enhancement of Turkey's political, economic, cultural and social relations with Iraq in a way that will enable both countries to contribute to the establishment of lasting and sustainable stability in the region.
RUSSIA
Development of economic relations with the Russian Federation
and increased cultural interaction;
We will support the continuation of these relations based on mutual respect and cooperation.
By balancing and diversifying the foreign trade of Turkey and Russia, the two most active countries of the Organization of the Black Sea Economic Cooperation, we will make a major contribution to regional peace in the medium and long term.
In this context, we will balance our energy relationship through diversification of our sources.
Solving the problems of citizens of the two countries in terms of travel and settlement on the one hand,
on the one hand, and through facilitating cultural integration on the other, we will further advance relations.
To this end, we will design joint educational programs between Turkey and Russia, develop the
infrastructure for technological cooperation,
promote cultural exchange and interaction
, and support the friendship and cooperation efforts of both countries.
SOUTH CAFCASIA
Ensuring peace and stability in the South Caucasus
and subsequently contribute constructively and actively to the development of the region in an environment of sustainable peace and cooperation.
We will further strengthen our brotherly ties with our neighbor Azerbaijan on the basis of mutual trust and respect.
We will aim to establish good neighborly relations with Armenia.
We will solve the problems between Turkey and Armenia through dialogue.
We will take all measures to ensure that Armenians who are citizens of the Republic of Turkey are not affected by the problems between Armenia and Turkey.
We will support increased dialogue between Turkey and Armenia and the Armenian Diaspora, and between civil society organizations, students, business people and other sectors of society, with a view to initiating a process of détente between Turkey and Armenia and the Armenian Diaspora, similar to that between Turkey and Greece.
Armenia should withdraw from the Azerbaijani territories it occupies, should
cease its attempts to claim genocide against Turkey through Armenian organizations around the world, in violation of international law,
and should abandon attitudes and behaviors that would give the impression that it has some ambitions against Turkey's territorial integrity.
If Armenia takes steps to prove that it has made a change of mind in this direction, we will support that these steps will not go unanswered.
On the other hand, as long as the Armenian allegations continue to accuse our country of unfair prejudices, we will continue to support the determined stance and activities led by the CHP against these allegations and this injustice.
RELATIONS WITH CENTRAL ASIAN REPUBLICS
We will establish close political, economic and cultural relations with the Central Asian Republics and other independent states,
create and develop multilateral cooperation opportunities and mechanisms.
BALKANS
We will maintain our position of preserving the political framework that emerged after the break-up of Yugoslavia.
In this context, we will emphasize the need to take care not to create new hostilities in the region.
To pursue the mutual interests of both our country and the Balkan countries,
We will create and develop opportunities for multilateral political-economic-cultural bilateral and regional cooperation to promote and entrench stability in the region.
That our compatriots living in the Balkans and other parts of the world become citizens of the countries they live in with equal rights,
We will resolutely defend their right to live in security with human rights and freedoms, cultural and participatory political rights.
EASTERN MEDITERRANEAN
For the sake of Turkey's security and peace in the region, we will prioritize stability in the Eastern Mediterranean
and oppose any attempt to change the international political and economic order in the region through unilateral initiatives.
FAR EAST AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES
We will develop our relations with China, Japan, Southeast Asia and India politically and economically.
Recognizing the contribution of trade and cultural interaction, especially among developing countries, to world peace and sustainable development, we will pay special attention to relations with these geographies.
We will diversify and enrich Turkey's foreign relations with these countries, including joint investments, R&D programs and student exchange programs.
AFRICA
We will increase and diversify our relations with African countries.
Embedding democracy on the African continent,
We will contribute to its efforts in the areas of development and poverty alleviation.
With this understanding, we support the development of trade with African countries.
and we will aim to keep this trade in balance.
In the same spirit, we will support the implementation of bilateral and multilateral cooperation projects with African countries, including student exchange, economic investments, tourism and cultural exchange programs.
ANNEX: NEW INSTITUTIONS TO BE CREATED BY CHP
Ministry of Information and Communication Technologies Ministry of Housing and Urbanization Parliamentary Investigation Commission in charge of investigating the murdered unknowns Parliamentary Commission on Equality between Women and Men Parliamentary Specialized Commission on Youth Parliamentary Final Accounts Commission Parliamentary Supreme Council of Judges Family Insurance Institution (AS-KUR) Youth Policy Coordination Institution (GENÇ-Kur) National Supervisory Authority for Human Rights Undersecretariat for Incentive Implementation General Directorate for Livestock and Dairy Products Support General Directorate for Aquaculture General Directorate for Health Programs General Directorate for Primary Health Care Services General Directorate for Inpatient Treatment Institutions General Directorate for Health Manpower General Directorate for Medical Technology and Pharmacy Livestock and Meat Products Authority Agricultural Markets Regulation and Support Agency Financial Stability Board Climate Change and Development Research Center Land Acquisition Office
There are no supporters for me, there are only and only citizens. And every citizen, without exception, should get their fair share of the wealth of this country.
Every citizen should breathe a sigh of relief. That's what I believe in.
If CHP exists, it exists for everyone.
