NATIONALIST MOVEMENT PARTY 22 JULY 2007
ELECTION MANIFESTO
National Stance and Determination Document
MHP ALONE
NATIONALIST MOVEMENT PARTY JULY 20
ELECTION MANIFESTO
M H P ALONE
National Stance and Determination Document
Great Turkish Nation,
Turkey is at a historic turning point.
Turkey, which is experiencing the darkest and most dangerous period in its recent history, is facing grave internal and external security threats.
The existence of the state, the integrity of the country and the unity of the Turkish nation are under severe attack.
Turkey's national and spiritual values, the fundamental qualities of the state and its founding principles have been turned into an arena of political and social conflict.
Public disorder and terrorism deeply undermine the peace and confidence of the Turkish Nation.
Unemployment is increasing,
poverty is deepening,
agriculture is being destroyed,
the competitiveness of industry is declining and tradesmen are closing their shutters.
High levels of corruption, moral pollution and degeneration threaten social peace and the existence of the democratic system,
undermine trust in state institutions and cause social damage.
Unless this trend is stopped, a dark future awaits Turkey.
Our great nation will make a historic decision about the fate of Turkey in the July 22, 2007 elections.
The Turkish nation will reveal what kind of future it wants to walk towards and what kind of Turkey it wishes to see for the future of its children with the choice it will make.
At the crossroads Turkey has reached today, our Great Nation will not stand by and watch as Turkey is dragged into an environment of enmity, strife and conflict. -
It will unite around common national values and the ideal of living together, and
will definitely break the treacherous siege around Turkey.
-It will choose fraternity, not division; loyalty, not betrayal; to live with dignity as a peaceful nation at home and an honorable nation and an independent state abroad, not to be exploited as a plaything in the hands of global powers and to live in weakness.
The Nationalist Movement stands before the Turkish nation with its honorable past, its political identity registered in the national conscience, its principles that do not change, bend and twist according to time and circumstances, the programs and projects necessary to lift Turkey to its feet, and its trained idealist cadres.
The only source of the Nationalist Movement's authority and political legitimacy to govern Turkey will be the national will.
Our party will come to power on its own in the July 22, 2007 elections with the authorization of the Great Turkish Nation and the permission of Allah Almighty, without black-marketing national and spiritual values, without falling into the ignominy of seeking legitimacy at the gates of interest lobbies and in the dark corridors of foreign centers, and without owing a diet to anyone.
Our Party has full confidence in the Turkish Nation's national consciousness, vast common sense, perception, conscience and will to walk into the future by sharing a common destiny.
The "National Stance and Determination Document", which will move our country from darkness to light, from submission to dignity, from poverty to prosperity, from corruption to clean society, from oppression to justice, is presented for the evaluation of the Great Turkish Nation.
Our beloved nation has the right to decide.
May God help us all. Devlet BAHÇELİ Chairman of the Nationalist Movement Party
TABLE OF CONTENTS A. TURKISH VIEW OF THE CHANGING WORLD ORDER 1 1 B. TURKEY AND MHP 3 C. OUR MISSION, VISION AND FUNDAMENTAL OPINIONS 9 D.LONG TERM DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY 15 E. DEVELOPMENT AND INSTITUTIONALIZATION OF DEMOCRACY 17 F. JUSTICE 20 G. NATIONAL DEFENSE 24 H. PUBLIC ORDER 25 I. FIGHT AGAINST TERRORISM 28 J. FIGHT AGAINST CORRUPTION 31 K.PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION 36 L. COMBATING POVERTY AND SOCIAL PROTECTION 39 M. COMBATING UNEMPLOYMENT 42 N. TRADESMEN AND CRAFTSMEN 46 O. AGRICULTURE 49 P. REDUCING REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT DISPARITIES 54 R.URBANIZATION, HOUSING AND ENVIRONMENT 57 S.SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY 62 T.ECONOMIC GOALS AND POLICIES 66 1-Five Year Economic Program 66 2-Economic Growth 68 3-Monetary Policy and Price Stability 69
4. Budget Policy 71 5-Tax Policy 72 6-Debt Management Policy 75 7-IT and Privatization Policy 77 8-Public Investment Policy 79 9-Policies Related to the Financial System 80 10-Foreign Trade and Balance of Payments 83 11-Foreign Direct Investment and Private Sector Investment 86 12-Sectoral Targets and Policies 87 U. SOCIAL AND CULTURAL POLICIES 93 1-Education and Development of Human Resources 93 2-Youth and Sports 99 3-Family, Women and Children 103 4-Culture and Arts 105 5-Labor Life and Social Security 109 6-Health 111 V. FOREIGN POLICY 113 1-The Bankruptcy of Foreign Policy and the Dark Picture before You 113 2-Turkey's Power and Opportunities 114 3-Fundamental Principles and Objectives of Foreign Policy 116 4-Relations with the Turkic World 117 5-Relations with the European Union 119 6-Policy Towards Iraq 120 7-Important Aspects of Our Foreign Policy 121
A. A TURKISH PERSPECTIVE ON THE CHANGING WORLD ORDER
The last decade of the 20th century, which witnessed two major world wars, witnessed dizzying developments in political, economic and technological fields.
Half-century-old alliances have collapsed, disintegrated or lost their weight.
The 1989 thaw did not only affect the countries in the Eastern Bloc, but also caused countries that had developed attitudes and strategies according to the threat perception of the bloc period to question their stance in the face of national and international developments.
"It is not enough to see the horizon alone.
It is necessary to see and know beyond the horizon
Turkey, which could not foresee the dissolution of the bipolar structure and the end of the cold war era and did not have the opportunity to prepare for this period, unfortunately could not adequately perceive the opportunities, risks and threats of the post-cold war period.
"It is not enough to see the horizon.
National strategies have not been developed within the framework of the vision of Atatürk the Great, who said, "It is necessary to see and know beyond the horizon.
Turkey is not doomed to helplessness or a lack of options.
Centuries-old alliance relations are undoubtedly important for Turkey in political, military, commercial and socio-cultural terms.
Re-evaluating the unions and partnerships that have been patiently and steadfastly forged over decades in the face of new circumstances does not mean, of course, that all the good work has to be done in one fell swoop.
However, it is also true that new conditions and balances offer Turkey new options.
Turkey is not a country that will condemn itself to helplessness or lack of choice under any circumstances.
Turkey's dignified stance with its wealth and deep-rooted state experience will ensure that it will always be respected and become a pole in its region.
When Turkey discovers its own strength and returns to its essence, it will go beyond being a regional power and become a global power.
At a time when the world is experiencing significant economic, political and technological changes, and new regional and global alliances are being formed, Turkey has not dared to question the status quo, which is a product of alliances, has not made the effort to be itself and discover its essence, and has not had the prudence to frustrate the games of global actors who want to push our country off the stage.
The process of globalization, which was supposed to lead to the global adoption and realization of universal values such as human rights, democracy and respect for law, has become associated with a new set of problems such as international terrorism, migration, ethnic conflicts, financial bankruptcies and civil unrest, double standards in violation of international law, ever-increasing income inequality between rich and poor countries, environmental disasters and hunger.
Globalization has become synonymous with terrorism, migration, ethnic conflicts, disasters and hunger.
The way to make the globalization process fair and humane is to ensure sustainable competition among countries,
use technological opportunities in a way that serves the common future of all humanity, to bring
human rights practices to the agenda in a way that includes environmental, social and economic rights, not only individual rights, and to
support cooperation efforts based on dialogue and mutual understanding instead of the seeds of hatred and hatred that are tried to be sown between cultures and civilizations.
In this context, the need for a developed "ethic of responsibility" that rises on national, regional and global pillars for the realization of a democratic and humane world order is becoming increasingly evident.
we consider it a requirement of nationalism to contribute to the inclusion of moral and human values in the globalization process
By supporting constructive cooperation and dialogue efforts in the political and social spheres in the world, our Party considers it a requirement of nationalism and humanity to contribute to the globalization process to include more moral and human values.
In today's world, where a new world order is taking shape after the Cold War era based on bipolarity, the ideal of a world in which the Turkish nation and all humanity will live in peace and happiness
can only be realized through the realization of a new civilization project centered in Turkey.
A new civilization project centered on Turkey must be implemented.
B. TURKEY AND MHP
When the developments in the world and in Turkey are evaluated together, it is seen that our country is rapidly moving towards a fork in the road.
While the events confronting Turkey include threats to the country's existence and strategic attacks, they also offer new ways out and new openings for Turkey in the new century in line with its historical identity.
Those who govern Turkey today have chosen a path that blocks Turkey's path, prevents it from finding new opportunities, and is open to dangers that threaten its national existence, independence and identity.
They have chosen a path that threatens Turkey's independence, national existence and identity.
Instead of finding solutions to Turkey's problems, the AKP governments have placed the demands of external and internal power centers at the center of politics
and have shifted to total capitulation with their practices shaped accordingly.
The dynamiting of social peace with their policies of exploitation and tension,
the AKP is the cause of friction and tension between institutions;
It has deepened the tradition of confrontational politics, causing ethnic, religious and institutional tensions,
this has narrowed the space for politics
and weakened its ability to solve society's problems.
Social peace has been dynamited by policies of exploitation and tension.
In order to make us forget the damage caused by corruption, poverty, injustice and submissionism, which is the result of four and a half years in power, he has not hesitated to polarize society, disregarding all human and moral values, and has tried to gain political rent from this.
The economy has been managed with preferences that would increase the competitiveness of the economies of developed countries, and has ceased to be managed according to our own social preferences.
Thus, the capacity to solve economic problems has been weakened,
debt and unemployment have increased, resources have been wasted and
competitiveness has declined.
The politics of exploitation and deception during the presidential election process has become the unethical, but self-sanctified, way of salvation for the AKP, which has no excuse left to tell the citizens.
Many regulations and actions aiming to destroy the self-confidence of the nation, to give up hope for the future, to create a society without identity and personality, to create an order where rulelessness is at a premium, and to destroy the unitary state structure by attacking the basic dynamics of our State have been carried out during the AKP period.
Democratization,
DEVELOPMENT,
a strategy that encompasses aspects such as national culture and social development.
Democratization to bring about a fundamental structural change that will put an end to the cyclical crises that have plagued Turkey for nearly two centuries,
DEVELOPMENT,
a development strategy that covers issues such as national culture and social development.
In the 2nd century, our country will be a guarantor of peace and stability in its region,
It is the strategic goal of the Nationalist Movement Party to prepare all the necessary conditions for the country to become a strong "Leader Country" with a voice and reputation in international relations.
The development of Turkey's national interests in every field, and the dominance of an effective foreign policy approach aiming at peace, friendship and cooperation constitute an important dimension of the MHP's vision of "Leading Country Turkey".
To carry the Republic of Turkey into the future as a whole with its country and nation,
new generations with Turkish-Islamic culture,
to educate with patriotism and modern values
and a common national attitude is necessary to keep the welfare and happiness of our nation at the highest level at all times.
The MHP's strategic goal is to prepare the conditions for our country to become a Leader Country.
By establishing national unity and integrity, strengthening its cultural values and social structure,
societies with a competitive economy become the determining actors of the global order and gain a larger share of the world's welfare.
The basis of the ideas and action plan envisaged by the Nationalist Movement Party in the face of these developments is a plan that addresses the Turkish nation from national, spiritual and humanitarian perspectives;
Turkish Nationalism, which aims for love, justice, peace and a secure development.
Values such as human rights and freedoms, the rule of law and justice are the first and fundamental steps of Turkish nationalism and the fundamental references of the Nationalist Movement Party.
The way to have a say on the dynamics of the age is to be a nation with a strong national identity and self-confidence.
The Nationalist Movement Party believes that the way to have a say in the dynamics of the age we live in is to be a nation with a strong national identity and self-confidence.
The Nationalist Movement Party conducts all of its political activities in a legitimate and lawful manner.
and ethical conduct.
With its principled, level-headed, consistent, honest, country-first perspective, it prioritizes public trust above all else.
The MHP prioritizes winning the trust of the people above all else with a "my country first" perspective.
The Nationalist Movement Party is determined to build a "Fully Independent Turkey" in every field, from social life to economy, from democratic structure to foreign policy, from defense to energy.
It is with this determination and understanding that our Party enters the July 22, 2007 elections and aims for a "Single Power".
The Nationalist Movement Party is aiming for a single power in the elections of July 22, 2007. While the issues in
While the fundamental issues in our Party Program and previous Election Declarations remain valid in principle, our 2007 Election Declaration prioritizes some issues that have emerged as a result of changing and evolving conditions.
The Nationalist Movement, in its sole power; 1- Democracy will be operated with all its institutions and rules;
where democratic political culture is entrenched,
fundamental rights and freedoms are guaranteed,
rule of law in the broadest sense instead of legality
and the establishment of a political and legal order in which justice prevails in all areas,
2- Based on competitive market economy and free enterprise,
rational use of resources,
adequate investment and production,
a fair distribution of income is established,
the establishment of an equitable and stable economic order in which we are among the top 10 economies in the world,
3- An industrialization strategy that directs investments to areas that require high technology and produce high value-added goods and services,
ensuring a stable, sustainable and job-creating growth structure,
4- Bridging the gap with developed countries in science and technology and ensuring transition to an information society,
adopting an "e-life" style of electronic life in all areas of life with a holistic understanding based on the interaction between science, technology, innovation and production
5-Poverty, unemployment
and launch a national mobilization to fight corruption,
6- Ensuring that Turkish, one of the indispensable elements of our national identity, becomes a common cultural and scientific language used and understood throughout the Turkic world,
7- Establishment of an effective and efficient management approach based on the understanding of providing services to our nation in universal norms, based on the service to the homeland and the trust of the citizens,
8- Establishment of a social order worthy of human dignity and honor, where basic needs such as education, health and social security are fully met,
9-Having the pride and consciousness of belonging to the Turkish Nation and internalizing our national and spiritual values,
developed thinking, perception and problem solving skills,
open to new developments,
high sense of responsibility and social sensitivity,
prone to science and technology production,
entrepreneur,
Democrat
the raising of cultured and faithful generations,
10-To eliminate cultural and moral degeneration, nourished by national and spiritual values,
implementation of policies to strengthen our unity and integrity,
11-Turkey's history, culture, surface and underground riches, human-military-economic capacity, geopolitical advantages, and the development of regional and global cooperation programs,
12-Jeo strategic position of our country, the importance of which is increasing day by day due to its deep-rooted state tradition, modern and strong army and the riches it possesses; to enrich cooperation in the economic, social, political and cultural fields by maximizing relations with the countries in the Balkans, Caucasus, Central Asia and the Middle East with which it has historical and cultural ties,
13- Our country to have a say in the formulation of political, social and economic policies on a world scale,
First and foremost, it aims to establish a foreign policy in line with the goal of becoming a superpower in its region and a "Global Power" by 2023.
These goals include principled and clean politics,
trained cadres
The vast common sense of the Great Turkish Nation
and we firmly believe that it will be realized with the help of Allah Almighty.
C. OUR MISSION, VISION AND FUNDAMENTAL VIEWS
Our Mission:
To protect the unity and integrity, rights and interests of our country; to
protect the national and spiritual values, historical and cultural richness of the Great Turkish Nation; to
raise generations with faith, high morals and the qualities required by the age; to
build Turkey's prosperous and honorable future; to
ensure that our country has a say in the establishment of a world order where peace, happiness and justice prevail.
Our vision
With the understanding of a new civilization and a new world order centered on Turkey; to make our country a Leader Country in 2023 by ensuring its economic, social, cultural and technological development.
Our Fundamental Views:
Our nationalism, inspired and encouraged by our deep attachment to and love for Turkey and the Turkish Nation, considers it a fundamental goal to give meaning to its existence and guarantee its future
, and considers every effort necessary for this purpose.
Our Party considers the principle of "live and let live" as the spiritual basis of our understanding of nationalism
and attaches vital importance to the institutionalization of this principle by continuously developing it in a line extending from tradition to the future.
The MHP interprets this principle to cover the entire human family
and advocates a humanitarian dimension to the globalization process.
It envisages an understanding of morality that aims to establish love, tolerance and justice in human relations.
In order for this understanding to prevail in all segments of society with all its institutions and rules, we advocate the implementation of moral principles and standards that will prevent the corruption trend spreading in every field.
Our Party accepts the principle of "live and let live" as the spiritual basis of our understanding of nationalism.
The Nationalist Movement Party adopts the view that "economic reconciliation", "social reconciliation", "political reconciliation", "social self-confidence" and "unity of purpose" must be achieved in order to realize social transformation.
Democracy, the regime in which the Nation is best represented in state administration; the rule of law,
as a system in which human rights and freedoms are guaranteed in the broadest sense
and we believe in the vital importance of institutionalizing democracy.
The rule of law recognizes the supreme value of the human person and his or her fundamental rights, rather than a legalism that maintains order within a democratic system,
accept
and to secure them.
Recognize the rule of law; the supreme value of human beings and their fundamental rights,
accept
and we consider it as securing them
In light of the fact that no person or institution can be above the law, we see the law as the guarantee of the fundamental qualities of the republic.
That every human being has inviolable, inalienable and inalienable fundamental rights and freedoms;
the sanctity of these rights and the authority and freedom to exercise them on an equal basis with other human beings,
protect them from all forms of abuse,
guaranteeing
and the indispensability of operationalizing them
and we believe that it cannot be postponed.
Our Party; To ensure the integration of the social center representing the basic sensitivities of our nation on the axis of values
and economic empowerment.
We envision to contribute to the consolidation of social peace by developing a culture of solidarity.
We consider the mobilization of our economic and social accumulations to common goals with an understanding based on the integration of rich common values instead of the separativeness of artificial differences that have no depth on the basis of history, culture and belief as the guarantee of our national unity and integrity.
To realize a fair distribution of income,
to keep the national sensitivities of society alive,
aims to glorify good qualities such as renunciation and sacrifice against selfishness and indifference
We envision to contribute to the consolidation of social peace by developing a culture of solidarity and solidarity.
We see secularism, which has value and meaning to the extent that it ensures that citizens live together in brotherhood without ignoring their beliefs, as the guarantee of national unity and integrity and freedom of religion and conscience.
Embedding a quality and results-oriented management culture in government,
We aim to ensure that a transparent, participatory, accountable, protective and coordinating approach based on public trust and aiming for the public's trust, and administrative methods that are geared towards these, prevail.
We attach strategic importance to the global competitiveness of Turkish companies and brands. We
advocate a competitive and equitable market economic policy based on free enterprise. We
attach strategic importance to the global competitiveness of Turkish companies and brands in order for Turkish entrepreneurs to have a say in the world economy.
The Nationalist Movement Party, which aims to rapidly establish the infrastructure of the information society in our country, aims to implement policies that will enable the production, use and export of information and technology.
and the development of social awareness in this direction.
On the basis of political equality in foreign policy; in line with the principle of reciprocity and the pursuit of national interests,
We advocate an effective and respected state approach, aiming to enrich social, economic and political relations.
The MHP envisages the implementation of policies that will enable the production, use and export of knowledge and technology.
Our Party sees politics as a way of developing policies to ensure the peace and welfare of the nation.
For this purpose, state services should be provided in accordance with the expectations of citizens,
institutions and rules to be shaped according to this understanding.
, with the participation and contribution of all segments of society.
It believes in the socialization of quality through the development of system quality on the one hand and human quality on the other
Believing that a healthy democracy can only rise on the ground of a political culture adorned with moral values such as tolerance, honesty, consistency and sincerity, the Nationalist Movement Party considers principled,
level-headed and clean politics as the guarantee of democracy.
Our Party wants to achieve its goals in the understanding of heart mobilization by winning the love and respect of people
Preventing political corruption that undermines public trust in democracy and the state,
It believes that democratic participation with national, moral and social sensitivity is possible.
The Nationalist Movement Party wants to embrace every human being as a sacred being and a trust, and to achieve the goal of "Leading Country Turkey" within the understanding of a heart mobilization by winning their hearts, love and respect.
It also considers this understanding as a conscientious responsibility that will contribute to peace at home and in the world, and
believes that the goal can be achieved more rapidly if the common attitude to be determined for the ideal of carrying Turkey into the future and the desire to realize it find a place in all hearts.
A real revolution will be made in the understanding of state, politics and administration, and
a process of radical and total change will be initiated A
real revolution will be made in the understanding of state, politics and administration, and
a process of radical and total change will be initiated.
Nationalist Movement, democratic political culture,
will pioneer the establishment of an understanding of politics and governance that prioritizes the ethics of reconciliation and responsibility.
Nationalist Movement, democratic political culture,
It will be the pioneer of a political and administrative approach that prioritizes the ethics of reconciliation and responsibility.
In this framework; Strong and just, human-centered rationalism
and the democratic national state,
A principled, honest, honest and open management approach and
Based on the embrace, not conflict, of shared values, aiming for love, brotherhood and unity,
 A clean and responsible political understanding, at peace with the nation, will dominate our state and social life with all its elements and requirements.
In the MHP government, the following five basic projects will be implemented rapidly. In the MHP government, the following five basic projects will be implemented rapidly 1-State and Administrative Reform in the Process of Social Repair and Transformation
2-Producing Economy Program
3-Tackling Unemployment Project
4-Tackling Corruption Project
5-Establishment of Social Morality and Quality
D. LONG-TERM DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY
2023 is the main objective of our long-term strategy, which aims to ensure that our country has modern values,
globally influential
and to become a "Leader Country", one of the top 10 countries in the world in terms of economy.
becoming a globally influential world state is a key objective of its long-term development strategy.
Producing world class,
who share their income fairly,
guaranteeing human rights and freedoms,
becoming a globally influential world state is a key objective of its long-term development strategy.
Ensuring transformation into an information society,
improving the quality of life of the society, and
having an active voice in decisions at regional and global levels also constitute the objectives of the long-term development strategy.
In achieving these objectives, the restructuring and streamlining of the state,
education of society
and raising the level of health,
making income distribution fair,
strengthening science, technology and innovation capability,
development of new technologies,
increasing efficiency in infrastructure services
it is of great importance to realize the transformation of the economic and social structure by protecting the environment.
Young population, national development awareness,
entrepreneurial spirit,
an institutionalized market economy,
industrial structure open to international competition,
transcontinental transportation networks,
natural resources,
Turkey's historical and cultural richness will contribute to the realization of social transformation.
Using advanced technology,
creating high added value and employment
and a production structure that mobilizes domestic resources will be established
Mobilizing internal resources, using advanced technology,
creating high added value and employment,
a production structure in accordance with international standards is targeted.
Cooperating with regional and international economic and political organizations
and having the power and capability to direct these associations for world peace and prosperity will contribute to Turkey's ability to share its experience with the world.
The Eurasian region offers important opportunities for Turkey to realize its true economic growth potential and become more effective.
It is important to transform the network of relations with the countries of the region into close and lasting ties, to undertake new economic and political initiatives in the region
and to achieve further progress in the cooperation realized so far in the region.
Beyond being an energy corridor, Turkey will become a market player.
Beyond being one of the world's major energy distribution centers, Turkey will become a market player by having the capacity to produce alternative energy resources and value-added energy products.
Turkey's average annual growth rate of around 7 percent until 2023,
700,000 new jobs per year,
increase per capita income to 25 thousand dollars
and to be among the world's top ten economies by the end of the period.
It will be essential that markets and the state play complementary roles in achieving social goals.
In this framework, the state's functions of regulation, supervision and control will be enhanced,
local governments will be strengthened
and civil society organizations will be supported in line with national priorities.
7 percent growth every year,
700 thousand new jobs,
national income of 25 thousand dollars per capita in 2023
E. DEVELOPMENT AND INSTITUTIONALIZATION OF DEMOCRACY
Our Party believes that democracy, which it regards as the guarantee of the rule of law, human honor and dignity, freedom of opinion, enterprise, religion and conscience, should not only be a political regime, but also a way of life, and should be practiced with all its institutions and rules in social and political relations.
We envisage that our Constitution should be renewed with as broad a consensus as possible in order to make it a true "Social Contract Document", based on freedom and including general protection provisions rather than general restriction provisions.
A new Constitution as a "social contract document"
The protection and promotion of the inviolable, inalienable and inalienable fundamental rights and freedoms of the human being, in particular the right to life, is one of the primary duties of the State,
recognition of these rights and freedoms, justice
and the foundation of peace.
Our Party, which regards the human being as a supreme being, is strongly opposed to all forms of torture, inhuman and degrading behaviors and practices, and
believes that the security and life of every individual must be ensured.
Strengthen legal provisions to support the fight against torture
and ensure that practitioners are trained in human rights issues.
Administrative and legal obstacles that undermine the right to organize, assemble and demonstrate, provided that they do not contradict the fundamental characteristics of the Republic, will be reviewed and the exercise of these rights in accordance with their essence will be ensured.
All forms of de facto and de jure discrimination against women will be eliminated, and
children will be protected against all forms of rights violations, including from their families.
Everyone will have effective freedom of access to information and the right to seek justice
It will be ensured that the judicial remedy is open against all actions and transactions of the administration
and everyone will have effective freedom of access to information and the right to seek justice.
Legal arrangements will be made to ensure that the media, which is one of the indispensable elements of democracy, acts in accordance with ethical principles and standards, and that
the media attaches importance to self-regulation.
Political party membership will be secured under strong guarantees.
The right to become a member of political parties will be introduced for public servants other than those who fall within the narrowed definition of civil servants and those who carry out certain specific duties.
It will be ensured that citizens of the Republic of Turkey living abroad will be able to vote at their place of residence in the parliamentary general elections.
At least 10 percent of state aid to parties will be obliged to be used for R&D expenditures.
The upper limit of donations that can be made to political parties will be raised,
but donations over a certain amount will be made public
chairmen and members of the central, provincial and district organizations of political parties will be included in the scope of asset declaration The
chairmen and members of the central, provincial and district organizations of political parties will be included in the scope of asset declaration.
The "siphoners of faith" who use religious abuse as a means of political rent should not be lumped together with the pure and sincere people of faith who have the will to preserve both the republic and democracy and their religious beliefs with all their values.
The vicious bickering around religion and secularism and the use of religion and secularism as a tool for political struggle are causing serious damage to our political and social fabric.
Secularism and freedom of religion and conscience are two fundamental values that complement each other, birbirlerinden gain strength and meaning.
The coexistence of both values is an indispensable requirement of our state and society.
A state can be considered secular and democratic to the extent that it respects freedom of religion and conscience and provides the necessary environment and conditions for it.
The political and state institutions of the Republic of Turkey should be aware of their common duty and responsibility to ensure that the principle of secularism, as well as the beliefs and values of the Turkish nation, are no longer the subject of constant strife, tension and contention.
and must fulfill its requirements.
The fundamental qualities of the Republic, our national and spiritual values will be removed from the field of conflict The
fundamental qualities of the Republic of Turkey, the democratic regime and our national and spiritual values will be removed from the field of political and social conflict.
F. JUSTICE
We see justice as the guarantee of fundamental rights and freedoms and the foundation of the State.
The judiciary must therefore represent a structure in which people can trust without hesitation, and in which a sense of justice is ingrained in minds and hearts.
The establishment of merit and conscience of judges and prosecutors and the establishment of "justice of conviction" will guarantee confidence in the judiciary.
We see justice as the guarantee of fundamental rights and freedoms and the foundation of the State. The
legal system will be completely overhauled and the legislation regarding our domestic law will be renewed in a way that will not harm national unity and integrity
and universal democratic norms will be transferred to our law.
Our justice policy: measures to prevent crime from occurring,
the proper transfer of evidence and information to the courts after the crime has been committed,
arrangements for fast and accurate decision-making by the courts
and the use of information technology to make this process effective.
and the employment of well-trained judges and prosecutors.
Amendments to bring legislation and the administrative and judicial system into conformity with the obligations imposed by the conventions to which Turkey is a party will be made, if necessary through referendums with direct public participation.
An understanding of justice in which citizens trust and believe that the rule of law and the freedom to seek their rights are implemented with all its institutions and rules will prevail.
The institution of legal aid will be effectively restructured in order to ensure that those who do not have the necessary financial means can fully exercise their constitutional right to freedom of legal remedy.
Procedural laws will be revised to allow lawyers to collect evidence and cross-examine witnesses in order to ensure the proper functioning of reasonable and fair trials.
Specialization of judges and public prosecutors in certain special fields
Judges and public prosecutors will be specialized in certain special fields such as organized crime, unfair competition, foreign exchange transactions, insurance, money laundering and capital market crimes.
There will be a fair balance between crime and punishment.
The election of members of the High Council of Judges and Prosecutors will be reorganized in accordance with democratic procedures and in a manner that does not undermine the independence of the judiciary.
Obstacles to the jurisprudence-making function of the higher judiciary will be removed and the
workload of the higher judiciary will be reduced through the use of computer technology in judicial services.
Workload will be reduced through effective use of computer technology in judicial services
In order to increase the efficiency of execution services, the necessary physical and technical infrastructure deficiencies will be eliminated and the organizational and personnel structure will be strengthened.
Prisoners and convicts will be provided with shelter, food, treatment, transfer, education and rehabilitation in penal institutions in a manner befitting human dignity and in security, and
their participation in production will be ensured.
The restructuring of the judicial organization in accordance with social needs and the requirements of the age will be ensured,
regional courts of justice will be established in order to lighten the workload of the Court of Cassation and to shorten the duration of cases, and
thus the Court of Cassation will be completely transformed into a court of jurisprudence.
Judicial organization will be restructured in accordance with social needs and the requirements of the age
Specialized courts will be established in big cities without disrupting the overall integrity of the judiciary.
Public prosecutor's offices and law enforcement agencies will be strengthened in terms of equipment, tools and laboratory facilities in order to collect and preserve the evidence of crimes by using advanced technology and modern methods without distortion and alteration.
By utilizing modern techniques such as artificial intelligence and data mining, computer programs to be developed according to crime types will support courts, public prosecutors' offices and law enforcement agencies
and prevent procedural errors.
The knowledge and experience gained from judicial proceedings will be made available for re-use and sharing, the
legal culture will spread,
national law will mature and
the memory of the Turkish judiciary will be created.
With the completion of the e-government infrastructure, the workload of the courts will be reduced by ensuring that justice is administered in a fast and accurate manner free from material errors in the process from the moment the crime is committed to the conclusion of the trial, execution of the sentence and deletion from the judicial record between law enforcement forces, prosecutor's offices, courts and high courts, the General Directorate of Penal and Correctional Institutions and the General Directorate of Judicial Registry.
With e-government, all organizations closely related to the judicial process, such as population, land registry, tax, etc., will work in coordination.
Ensure that justice is administered quickly and accurately, free from material errors
By meeting the need for judges, prosecutors and auxiliary personnel,
necessary improvements will be made in their financial and social rights and other personal rights,
In this way, the profession of judge and prosecutor will be made more attractive.
Computer software programs will be developed according to crime types to support the court and law enforcement forces and prevent procedural errors.
In order to eliminate the tendency to commit crimes, opportunities will be created to benefit from the services of psychologists, pedagogues and sociologists to monitor ex-convicts in their social life.
Law enforcement forces providing forensic services will be restructured administratively, will be subjected
to in-service training in order to increase their professional knowledge with modern evidence collection methods and techniques, will be
supported with tools, equipment and computer systems, and
criminals will be prevented from being acquitted due to lack of evidence.
The autonomous structure of the Forensic Medicine Institution within the understanding of judicial independence will be protected and strengthened, and
regulations and controls will be activated to ensure that the institution makes impartial decisions free from external influences.
G. NATIONAL DEFENSE
Turkey's geostrategic position, its obligations arising from its historical and cultural heritage, and its contribution to regional and world peace necessitate a strong defense system.
Development of war industry
and the private sector will be encouraged to invest in military equipment
The modernization and efficiency of the Turkish Armed Forces' capabilities and capacities, taking into account developments in science and technology,
development of the defense industry
a defense strategy based on information security, taking into account information security and guided R&D projects.
In order to ensure that the Turkish Armed Forces can fulfill its mission successfully and in accordance with the conditions of the age, a military modernization program will be initiated and it will be ensured that it will be raised to the level of the most advanced armies of the world in terms of weapons and equipment.
Development of indigenous war industry in order to reduce the external dependence of the Turkish Armed Forces in terms of weapons and equipment
and incentives will be provided for the private sector to invest in the production of arms and military equipment.
By utilizing the advantages of economies of scale, the war industry will be able to produce for foreign sales instead of producing only for national needs.
Emphasis will be placed on aviation and space technologies,
satellite production technologies will be encouraged
Emphasis will be placed on aeronautics and space technology to exploit the capabilities of space in defense and security,
satellite production technologies will be encouraged
and an "Aviation and Space Authority" will be established.
Production of defense industry technologies such as military software, material technologies, electronic warfare, aviation, space and satellite technologies, network-centric warfare, unmanned aerial vehicles, guidance and control technologies
and R&D studies will be supported.
The Turkish Armed Forces' mobility will be enhanced by expanding the employment of personnel specialized and expert in the use of advanced technology.
H. ASAYİŞ
Ensuring peace and security in the society,
making the public authority felt in every corner of the country and without discrimination between individuals, the
state's use of the authority it receives from the laws in a protective and compassionate manner
and the establishment of an environment that will ensure that citizens feel safe in every aspect of life constitute the basis of our understanding of security.
The public order and security picture facing Turkey is frightening in every respect.
There is no security of life and property and Turkey has become a paradise for criminals and criminals.
5 The "Action Plan" prepared for the fight against urban terrorism, crime and criminals will be put into practice swiftly.
A total war will be waged against urban terrorism, crime and criminals.
The "Action Plan" prepared for this purpose will be implemented rapidly.
Our main goal will be to prevent terrorism and public order incidents before they occur by conducting research on the economic, social and other factors that feed insecurity and terrorism.
Measures will be developed against internal migration, poverty, corruption, social, political and cultural developments that disrupt the national and spiritual climate and balance and deform the family structure.
The capacity and competence of law enforcement units to conduct crime analysis will be enhanced,
thus emphasizing preventive law enforcement.
Public order incidents, especially in big cities, will be prevented and
measures will be taken to eliminate threats to the security of life and property of citizens.
Night security guards will be employed to prevent public order incidents
In this context, security guards with the necessary technical equipment will be employed to work between 22.00-06.00, and
the security camera system will be expanded.
Methods will be developed for the effective assistance of the public to prevent crime before it turns into an attempt, and
citizens will be made aware of physical measures.
By redefining the authorities and responsibilities of institutions in the field of internal security, the service will be provided in harmony and they will be made to work with modern methods.
Effective coordination will be ensured between units in institutional structuring, intelligence activities, information flow and the fight against crime, and
merit will be the basis for the appointment and promotion of security personnel.
The cadres that put honorable members of the police force under suspicion will be broken and the foci of mischief that have infected the structure of our police force will be neutralized.
Turkish police conditions of service will be improved to protect professional honor and impartiality
Every measure will be taken to improve the conditions of service (professional, psychological and material) of the Turkish police, who fight a frontline war against lawlessness and crime, in a way that protects professional honor and impartiality.
Working hours, duration and conditions will be immediately corrected and improved.
Legislation regulating the duties and authorities of the police will be reviewed and new arrangements will be made within the framework of ensuring effectiveness in ensuring security.
Security personnel will receive a monthly security compensation of 230 YTL
Security personnel will receive a "security compensation" equal to the "5000" indicator multiplied by the civil servant salary coefficient (approximately 230 YTL).
It will be ensured that children who commit crimes and are prone to crime are educated and trained in cooperation with their families, if any, and that those who do not have families are taken under protection and rehabilitated and reintegrated into society.
Within the framework of data and information automation, information and documents to be obtained from various levels of internal security and the judiciary will be collected, classified, examined, stored and made ready for re-use
, and the raw data currently available in different units will be made usable
, and information of the desired quality and scale will be obtained from them,
processed and future-oriented results will be drawn from them.
Private security legislation will be reviewed and reorganized according to the needs of the country
Traffic terrorism that causes great loss of life and property will be prevented
In order to prevent traffic terrorism, which causes great loss of life and property, to bring highways in line with international standards,
expansion of educational activities on the prevention of driver errors,
activation of traffic inspections and penalties
and the development of a self-control system will be ensured.
I. FIGHT AGAINST TERRORISM
Bloody terrorism aimed at ethnic division, political separatism and ethnic incitement are the biggest problems and threats facing Turkey.
The threat of bloody terror and ethnic separatism will definitely be removed from Turkey's agenda
The threat of bloody terror and ethnic separatism will definitely be removed from Turkey's agenda.
Under the Nationalist Movement government, an effective and relentless struggle will be waged with the security forces of the state on legitimate grounds and all over the country to eradicate terrorism and put an end to political separatism and ethnic provocations.
The necessary political will and determination will be fully demonstrated.
Necessary legal arrangements for the fight against terrorism and separatism will be made swiftly.
Special-purpose security institutions fighting against terrorist organizations will be strengthened technologically, logistically and financially.
Technological and technological means will be utilized to the fullest extent in the fight against terrorism
and the intelligence network will be strengthened.
State authority will definitely be established in the regions where bloody terrorism is nesting, and the
influence, threats and pressure of the terrorist organization and its civilian pawns on our citizens will definitely be broken.
The people of the region, who have become prisoners of terrorism, will be freed from the grip of these traitors.
A clear distinction will be made between the people of the region and the terrorist organization.
The necessary socio-psychological measures for this will be implemented in all its aspects by competent cadres of the state to be deployed in the region.
The sources that feed terrorism will be dried up,
the socio-economic problems and challenges that create an enabling environment for this will be addressed as a matter of top priority and will be resolved in a radical and lasting manner.
To this end, a comprehensive economic and social development project will be implemented with the necessary financial support and resources.
The GAP project will be completed as a priority strategic investment as soon as possible.
Effective measures will be taken against the political, logistical and financial support of terrorism in its international dimension.
Effective measures will be taken against the international dimension of terrorism and its political, logistical and financial support.
All our rights arising from international law will be used decisively against the executive cadres and militants of the terrorist organization nesting in Northern Iraq.
Turkey's security will not be left to the permission and initiative of third parties, and
the necessary political and military measures will be implemented without hesitation.
Effective and result-oriented actions will be taken against the presence and activities of terrorist organizations in Europe and their media outlets in line with international law and the principles guiding international relations
, and the external sources and support of terrorism will be cut off.
Under the MHP government, terrorists will not be able to roam in the mountains and separatist traitors will not be able to roam in the plains.
There will be no general, special or political amnesty for terrorism offenses under any name.
In the MHP government, terrorists will not be able to roam in the mountains and separatist traitors will not be able to roam in the plains
The only way out for the terrorist organization and its militants is to end their terrorist activities without preconditions, to come down from the mountain with their weapons and surrender to the State of the Republic of Turkey and to submit to the judgment of Turkish justice.
The Imrali residency of the bloody murderer, who is being hosted as a special guest in Imrali today and who can still lead the terrorist organization through political couriers, will be ended.
J. FIGHT AGAINST CORRUPTION
The Nationalist Movement Party considers the fight against corruption, which destroys social life, democratic regime and moral values, as a fundamental element of national politics.
Decisive and effective fight against corruption
"clean politics-clean governance" will be rapidly established by decisively and effectively combating moral filth and corruption, which threaten social peace and the existence of the democratic system, undermine trust in state institutions and cause social destruction.
It is imperative to put an end to the understanding of corruption, which feeds negativities such as the desire to get rich in a short time and corner-cutting, and to establish a culture of honesty as a way of life.
In order to achieve this transformation of mentality, a total awareness-raising campaign will be launched, and
virtues such as honesty and responsibility will be instilled in the bureaucracy, the media and the military.
An autonomous "Anti-Corruption Board" will be established to prevent corruption, to develop effective and lasting policies in the fight against corruption and to ensure coordination among relevant institutions.
The audit system will be structurally and functionally reorganized to ensure effectiveness in preventing corruption.
In addition to an effective compliance with the law, a performance audit will be conducted
All public institutions and organizations will be included in the scope of the audit
and performance auditing will be ensured in addition to effective legal compliance auditing.
In order to prevent the cover-up of audit findings, conclusions and recommendations, the necessary legal arrangements will be made to ensure that the principle of independence prevails in the audit system.
National auditing standards will be set.
In order to ensure efficiency in auditing, the Turkish Audit Institution will be established and
audit and inspection units will be incorporated into this Institution.
reward those who help expose the abuse of public resources and all forms of corruption and irregularities.
Comprehensive legislation will be introduced to protect whistleblowers and
A code of ethical and administrative behavior that promotes integrity will be established.
By redefining the jobs that cannot be performed by those leaving public office, it will be prevented from entering into interest relations that will cause loss of public resources. The
provinces where those leaving public office cannot work will be redefined.
Cooperation between the State, private sector and non-governmental organizations will be ensured in order to fight corruption and strengthen moral values in society.
Public officials will be prevented from accepting gifts.
Effective legal sanctions will prevent public officials from accepting gifts that may affect their attitudes and behaviors towards their jobs and their employers, and that may lead to discrimination and privilege.
In order to confiscate the profits derived from corruption and to deprive criminals of these profits, legal arrangements will be made to allow for the confiscation of the wealth of persons found guilty of corruption, wherever it is located and in whose name it is registered, without regard to the statute of limitations.
Unnecessary bureaucratic formalities that pave the way for bribery and corruption will be eliminated.
Necessary administrative, financial, technical and legal infrastructure will be established for the institutions responsible for the fight against corruption to fulfill their duties effectively
and manpower capacities will be developed.
Transparency and accountability in public administration will be made effective.
Achieving success in the fight against moral pollution and corruption,
to restore our nation's trust in the state,
to ensure the formation of social sensitivity and awareness
"Ombudsman" system to resolve some disputes without going to the judiciary will be realized by creating a constitutional and legal infrastructure.
In order to prevent corruption in all areas, basic moral laws will be enacted to cover public administration, civil society organizations and private enterprise.
Fundamental rights and freedoms in the curriculum programs for the education of our children, who are the guarantee of our future,
responsibilities under the law,
behavior and actions that do not harm society,
valuing public property as much as one's own
and human relations will be ensured.
Heavy penalties will be imposed on corrupt public officials, those who cheat consumers and those who do not pay their taxes, as well as ensuring
that these are publicized.
In order to eliminate the poor quality in public services provided to citizens, total quality management will be implemented in State administration.
Municipality companies will be audited effectively and
no organization using public resources, including municipal companies, will be left out of the audit.
The expert witness institution will be institutionalized and made auditable and
not open to abuse.
Incentive legislation will serve the development of the country
and will be reorganized in a way that is free from any kind of suspicion.
The public procurement system will be completely reorganized to ensure that transactions are carried out in a fast, accurate, safe and efficient manner by eliminating exceptions to exclude and exploit investor organizations from the procurement system.
A Law on Political Ethics will be enacted that will regulate all aspects of political activities in accordance with ethical principles.
Legislation will be enacted to ensure that MPs, mayors and senior public officials make public their pre- and post-incumbency declarations of assets.
A comprehensive Law on Political Ethics will be enacted, which will bind all aspects of the activities and work of political parties, members of the Grand National Assembly and senior political management cadres to ethical principles.
Public disclosure of the budget and final account reports of political parties and election expenditures of parties and candidates will be ensured
and an effective audit will be conducted.
The scope of duties that MPs cannot perform during and at the end of their legislative mandate will be defined
, and effective sanctions will be introduced to prevent job pursuit and conflict of interest.
Similar arrangements will be made for senior public executives.
Parliamentary immunities will be limited
Parliamentarians will be stripped of their immunities except for their legislative activities, and
if they commit a crime, for whatever reason, they will be tried like any other citizen.
A constitutional amendment will be introduced to allow for the judicial investigation of corruption allegations against the Prime Minister and ministers by the Chief Public Prosecutor of the Court of Cassation.
It will be ensured that the duty of the Supreme Court will be fulfilled by a board consisting of the Presidents of the Criminal Chambers of the Court of Cassation.
A principled, level-headed and clean administration approach will be introduced into Turkish political and bureaucratic life.
In Turkey, in the recent period, the households of profiteering, robbery and plunder have been established and state institutions and municipalities have been parcelled by gangs formed for this purpose.
These dynasties and gangs will be crushed.
All robbers and profiteers who plunder the state and lay their hands on the rights of servants and orphans will be caught.
He will be brought before Turkish justice to account for his actions.
All those who have been
Regardless of office and position, everyone who has been involved in profiteering, looting and corruption in central and local governments during the AKP era will be held to account before Turkish justice to the end.
The MHP will pursue this relentlessly.
K. PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION
Our Party is committed to the establishment of a governance structure and functioning within the framework of the principles of the democratic rule of law, which considers fairness, efficiency and new developments together,
the main objective of public administration is to establish a flexible and fast functioning structure according to the needs of the administration and an understanding of quality service delivery and effective methods for this purpose.
Public administration, with all its institutions and rules, will be structured with an understanding of openness, participation and accountability in order to fulfill the common demands of the nation and to establish citizen satisfaction.
In order to ensure the peace and welfare of the society and the effective and continuous utilization of basic services by citizens, strategies will be developed in accordance with the principles of public administration.
Public administration based on citizen satisfaction
By determining the functions of the State, duties will be distributed among central, provincial and local administrations and the
organizational structure will be reorganized in line with the services to be carried out by the State. Transfers of duties between institutions will be prevented,
unity in service will be ensured
and waste of resources will be eliminated.
By merging some ministries, the number of executive ministries will be reduced to 16, the number of ministries of state will be reduced to 3
and a Deputy Prime Minister's Office will be created.
Thus, the number of ministries, including the Prime Ministry, will be reduced from 24 to 21.
Improve the quality of the system with all its institutions and rules and realize transformation for the improvement of public administration
and the quality of the manpower that will sustain it will be improved together.
The number of ministries, including the Prime Ministry, will be reduced to 21.
Policy-making capacity in public administration will be improved and alignment of public policies will be ensured.
Management development will be made continuous.
Institutions will be provided with the dynamic structure and functioning to develop themselves continuously and systematically.
quality of manpower and systems in public administration will be improved
The role of the public sector in direct service provision will be reduced, and its regulatory and supervisory role will be better performed,
whether policies are effective or not will be evaluated and alternative policies will be developed,
Citizens will be informed about how services are provided, their responsibilities and quality.
and to exercise their right to accountability.
Citizen oversight of public services will be ensured through the establishment of boards with the participation of service beneficiaries.
The audit system, which is limited only to the control of legality, will be replaced by a performance audit based on efficiency, effectiveness and savings, and the
function of improving the administration through audit will be made effective.
The continuation of managers will be evaluated according to their performance
Performance standards will be set for each institution, accountability will be established according to the performance criteria set, and the
continuation of managers will be evaluated according to their performance.
The system, which has moved away from an objective and equal opportunity approach to entry, advancement and promotion in public service, will be restored to objective rules.
Regional imbalance in employment will be eliminated and sufficient number and quality of public servants will be employed in every part of our country.
A definition of civil servants and other public officials will be made and union rights in line with international norms will be provided to personnel other than civil servants who perform the essential and continuous services of the state.
The need for manpower in the public sector will be determined through job analyses and manpower planning.
Health and education and training personnel will have job security
and personal rights will be improved.
the balance compensation paid to public sector employees will be increased to 150 YTL
The personnel regime will be based on merit and performance will be evaluated.
Wage justice will be ensured in the public sector,
equal pay for work of equal value will be ensured.
The balance compensation paid to public sector employees will be increased to 150 YTL.
The pension will be determined on the basis of the sum of premiums paid throughout the civil service
and the distortions in the system will be eliminated.
Flexible forms of employment with security will be put into practice
Flexible forms of employment with security will be put into practice, and
for this purpose, necessary arrangements will be made in the relevant laws, particularly in social security legislation.
Local government reform will be initiated by defining the relationship between the central administration and local governments and defining the boundaries of authority, duties and responsibilities,
and will be implemented as part of the public administration reform.
Regulations on local governments will be made by taking into account the needs of local governments instead of regulations based on the needs and criteria of the central administration.
Citizens are satisfied and happy with the services they receive from public institutions,
can supervise administrative actions and transactions
and ultimately a public administration in which it has absolute confidence will be established.
L. POVERTY ALLEVIATION AND SOCIAL PROTECTION
By establishing a stable economic growth and a strong production economy; producing, creating employment
and to create a social welfare order that ensures that every sector involved in this process receives a fair share of the value produced in proportion to its contribution.
In addition to measures to eliminate regional development disparities in order to "reinforce social solidarity and brotherhood",
assistance will be provided from the Social Assistance and Solidarity Incentive Fund to our citizens who have been damaged by terrorist incidents.
Social assistance and social service programs will be restructured The
social assistance and social service programs, which are currently being carried out by different ministries and institutions for the needy, elderly, orphaned, powerless, disabled and citizens in need of special attention, will be restructured under a single roof as a modern and integrated system.
Unemployed heads of families in need will be provided with jobs, and social protection will be provided to families by introducing an "unemployment assistance" program that pays half of the minimum wage (approximately 200 YTL) until a job is found.
Unemployed and needy heads of households will receive a monthly unemployment benefit of YTL 200.
Fighting poverty; sada-ka and preventing a culture of poverty,
the poor to become producers
and to live on their own earnings.
Basic needs, education, health and social services will be made accessible and available to the poor.
The burden of basic expenditures required for compulsory education on the family budget will be eliminated.
Pensioners will be paid one salary in September each year as winterization aid
Pensioners will be paid one salary once a year in September as winterization aid.
Economic and social policies will be implemented in a harmonized manner to support low and fixed incomes.
Taxes will be spread across the tax base, the tax burden of the poor will be eased, and the minimum wage will be exempt from tax.
Transfer policies will ensure that the poor and those at risk of impoverishment receive a larger share of national income.
Minimum wage to be completely tax-free
Social assistance and social service programs of local administrations, private sector and non-governmental organizations will be supported.
A social protection information system will be developed to ensure that the real poor benefit from social assistance programs and that no one is left hungry or exposed.
Abuses will be prevented by ensuring effective supervision of social assistance practices.
Instead of the general inflation index, the wages and salaries of pensioners will be determined according to a special index that will take into account their consumption patterns and standard of living.
Within the scope of the social housing program to be implemented, financing models will be put into practice to facilitate home ownership for pensioners.
Vocational rehabilitation opportunities for the disabled will be improved,
efficiency will be ensured in the services of local administrations in this field, and
all kinds of support will be provided to the disabled during their vocational rehabilitation.
Support will be provided in the provision of equipment and orthosis-prosthesis that facilitate the daily life of the disabled,
health institutions will be accessible to the disabled, and
the provisions of the zoning legislation related to the disabled will be effectively implemented.
Disabled care services will be recognized as a social right The
criteria of need for social assistance and services provided to the disabled by various public institutions and organizations will be based on realistic and objective principles.
In order to prevent epide-myological diseases that lead to disability, preventive, preventive and early diagnosis services will be activated
and diagnosis and treatment of these diseases will be free of charge within the scope of preventive health services.
Disability care services will be recognized as a social right and will be evaluated within the social security system and will be carried out in relation, interaction and cooperation with medical, social and vocational rehabilitation services.
Social centers for the elderly will be established
Social centers for the elderly will be established to prevent social exclusion of the elderly and to ensure their integration into society.
M. FIGHT AGAINST UNEMPLOYMENT
At the heart of the fight against unemployment is the realization of sustainable employment-oriented growth,
raising the level of employability
and establishing an entrepreneur-oriented market.
For this purpose, small and medium-sized enterprises will be supported by creating a favorable investment climate in which private enterprise can make long-term investment decisions, and
direct foreign capital investments to create added value and employment will be encouraged.
The rent economy, which provides easy profits and no employment, will be put an end to
and resources will be utilized in a way that encourages production.
The sustainable economic growth model, which targets investment, production, exports and employment, is based on the production of high value-added goods and services,
productivity, innovation, advanced and pioneering technologies.
Reducing regional development disparities
and public-private sector cooperation will be developed to mobilize local production potential.
The tax and social security premium burden on employment will be reduced to reasonable levels.
The employer's share of the social security premium, which ranges between 21.5-27 percent, will be reduced by 5 percentage points.
Employer's share of social security premium to be reduced below 20 percent
The number and duration of bureaucratic procedures for making investments and hiring workers will be reduced,
Tax, insurance and finance offices will be opened in Organized Industrial Zones and places where industry and trade are concentrated and these services will be brought to the entrepreneurs.
"Employment-based" incentive policy to be implemented
An "employment-based" incentive policy will be implemented to encourage the employment of long-term unemployed, youth, women and disadvantaged groups,
For each additional worker hired, a part of the labor cost will be covered by the state by providing advantages in terms of insurance premium, withholding tax and energy cost for a certain period of time.
Low-interest and long-term loans will be provided through Ziraat and Halk Banks to university and vocational education graduates who want to start their own business in the field of their education, taking into account their projects, within the scope of the "Young Entrepreneur Support Program".
In the fulfillment of legal obligations related to the employment of workplace physicians and lawyers, opening kindergartens and kindergartens, and fulfillment of environmental obligations, service procurement can be used instead of employment obligation
and the burden will be shared by the state,
incentives for the employment of disabled and ex-convicts will be essential, and the
entire employer premium share related to these will be covered by the state.
Flexibility in employment types and working hours
Flexibility in employment types and working hours will be ensured without disregarding the security in the labor market.
A strong link will be established between the education system and the labor market
and the quality and quantity of manpower required by enterprises will be ensured.
Vocational training and skill acquisition programs will be made widespread
Average duration of education of the labor force will be increased,
compulsory education will be extended to 12 years,
lifelong learning culture will be developed,
vocational education standards will be raised and its acceptability in the market will be increased,
vocational training and skill acquisition programs especially for women will be made widespread,
entrepreneurship training will be provided for those who will start their own business.
Private employment agencies providing vocational training, retraining, job adaptation and counseling services will be supported.
The enterprises will be encouraged to employ additional workers in order to meet the labor needs arising from the increase in capacity utilization rates, instead of meeting them with overtime by increasing the weekly working hours of existing workers.
Program integrity will be ensured between vocational education and higher education,
emphasis will be placed on applied vocational education and enterprises and professional organizations will be ensured to play an active role in this process.
Registration in employment will be encouraged,
employment of illegal foreign workers will be prevented
Registration will be encouraged through measures to be taken on issues such as legislation, cost, inadequate supervision and bureaucracy that lead to unregistered employment, and
practices to prevent employment of illegal foreign workers will be made effective.
The deterrence of penalties for illegal foreign employment will be ensured.
The resources of the Unemployment Insurance Fund will be used to expand active labor force programs and encourage new employment.
In order to lift out of poverty those who are most affected by poverty, those with low level of education, engaged in agriculture and forestry, working as self-employed and casual workers, will be provided with the opportunity to be employed in non-agricultural sectors through vocational training and skill acquisition programs to be implemented.
idle public lands will be allocated to unemployed and poor citizens for agricultural production and employment purposes The
usable idle public lands will be allocated to unemployed and poor citizens for agricultural production and employment purposes.
It will be ensured that veterans, families of martyrs, those who have been victims and disabled during the fight against terrorism and the disabled will contribute to production by placing them in jobs with priority.
N. ARTISANS AND CRAFTSMEN
Stabilization programs have reduced the purchasing power of the population, loss of competitiveness against cheap imported goods, income policies have reduced the purchasing power of fixed and narrow-income groups such as farmers, civil servants and pensioners, high employment costs, Due to the high level of indirect taxes, the prevalence of unregistered economy, and the increasing weight of foreign capitalized large enterprises in the retail trade market, the small artisans and craftsmen are rapidly losing their effectiveness in the economy and are becoming increasingly isolated.
SMEs will constitute the basic dynamics of the economy
Preventing monopolistic formations by protecting competition in the economy,
employment creation,
redressing income inequalities,
bringing new entrepreneurs into the economy,
maintaining social peace,
SMEs will be supported in order to eliminate imbalances between regions.
SMEs that can adapt to change and development, have a high entrepreneurial capacity, have international competitiveness, are professionalized, and have adopted a corporate governance approach will constitute the basic dynamics of the Turkish economy.
Knowledge and technology-based innovative SMEs will be supported to produce high value-added goods and services and will be
encouraged to invest in R&D and employ researchers.
SMEs will be supported to produce high value-added goods and services and will be provided with
Effective advisory support will be provided to SMEs to help them benefit from good governance practices and gain competitiveness.
SMEs will be enabled to play an active role in mobilizing local potential.
In small industrial estates, issues such as infrastructure, transportation, communication, health, education, storage, marketing, etc. will be organized with a modern understanding.
small industrial estates will be organized with a modern understanding.
guiding and encouraging measures will be taken to organize SMEs in unions, to improve their internal and external marketing functions and to provide state support to help them work at high capacity.
SMEs will be encouraged to come together to form "Domestic and Foreign Trade Companies".
Mechanisms will be established to solve the problems that may arise between the real sector and the banking sector, and
measures will be taken to ensure that the banking sector can provide financial resource support on a continuous basis.
Balance sheets of companies, especially SMEs, will be improved in line with the Basel-II process
and will be made more transparent,
implementation of corporate governance principles will be encouraged
and it will be easier for them to find financing.
kOSGEB's management, technical support and training capacity will be strengthened
KO S GEB's institutional management, technical support and training capacity will be strengthened
and an intensive information process on Basel-II will be organized with the participation of banks.
The resources of the Credit Guarantee Fund system will be increased in order to increase the interaction between the real sector and the financial sector and to ensure that SMEs, the main engine of the economy in terms of employment and production, receive more loans from banks.
Furthermore, the collateral problem of SMEs will be solved by making the Credit Guarantee Fund and the venture capital system effective.
credit guarantee fund and venture capital system will be made effective Considering the
insufficiency of development in border provinces, border trade will be developed in a controlled manner with a new regulation and its contribution to provincial economies will be ensured.
In order to increase the manpower capacity of SMEs at all levels, universities, KOS-GEB, professional associations and non-governmental organizations will be encouraged to develop training programs.
Raising the level of education and skills of the labor force,
supporting research and development activities,
overcoming the lack of technology
SMEs will be encouraged to produce goods and services for foreign markets in addition to the domestic market by providing consultancy services.
SMEs will be encouraged to produce goods and services for foreign markets
For this, the establishment of standards for the goods and services to be produced,
quality will be improved and the use of information and communication technologies in market access will be expanded.
The social security support premium deduction from tradesmen and craftsmen who continue their activities during retirement will be completely abolished.
No premium will be charged for retired and working tradesmen
Economic activities for the poor will be diversified and income-generating projects will be supported,
financing, consultancy and marketing support will be provided to entrepreneurs who will start their own business.
Professional standards will be developed,
specialized identity will be promoted to tradesmen
and a sense of belonging will be developed.
O. AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
The agricultural sector shall be made self-sufficient in agricultural production by reaching a state that can feed the Turkish society in a sufficient, balanced and healthy manner,
a structure capable of competing in international markets.
The agricultural structure will be adapted to modern changes and transformations in its physical, techno- logical and social dimensions.
Coordination in agricultural public services will be ensured by ensuring that the "Agricultural Restructuring and Support Board" operates in accordance with the purpose of its establishment.
The agricultural sector will be restored to a holistic structure with its production, processing and marketing dimensions.
Producer Unions will be strengthened
"Producer Unions" will be made effective in order to enable our farmers to organize on product and regional basis and to have a strong position at every stage from production to marketing.
Direct income support will be paid taking into account the supply and demand of crops.
Direct income support payments will be made without delay The
premium system will continue in products with supply deficit, premium amounts will be increased
and payments will be made directly to producers.
Direct income support payments will be made without delay during the fall and summer planting periods.
The amount of direct income payment per decare for each year will be increased in parallel with inflation.
Regarding the infrastructure of direct income support implementation; farmer definition will be made, small, medium and large scale enterprise sizes will be determined on product basis,
farmer registration and land registry and cadastral system will be completed.
Konya plain irrigation project will be implemented by providing resources for its rapid completion.
With the "contract production model", on the one hand, our farmers' products will be marketed at their real value,
on the other hand, industrialists, traders and exporters will be provided with a continuous supply of high quality, high standard raw materials at affordable quality and prices.
Agriculture will be transformed from inefficient family farming to farming that operates according to modern principles
and our farmers will be ensured to receive their rightful share of social welfare and modern living conditions.
Supervision in grain, tobacco, meat, sugar and milk markets will be activated, and the
market conditions and sustainability of the production of agricultural products and inputs used in production will be regulated and supervised.
The debts of our farmers will be restructured and necessary facilities will be provided
and their receivables will be paid without delay
In order to save our farmers from the difficult situation they are in, tax, insurance, loan, interest and similar debts will be restructured and necessary facilities will be provided and
farmer receivables will be paid without delay.
In order to support small farmers, SCT and VAT on basic agricultural inputs such as electricity, diesel, fertilizer, pesticides and seeds will be eliminated.
SCT and VAT on basic agricultural inputs used by medium and large farmers will be gradually reduced by 50%.
SCT and VAT on agricultural inputs will be abolished
Product-input pricing mechanisms will be established to prevent the terms of trade from working against the sector.
Efforts to open public agricultural enterprises to the projected cooperation of the private sector in accordance with their service functions will be accelerated.
Supports under the alternative crop project, which contributes to agricultural crop planning, will be expanded.
Agricultural cities will be established
Diversification of agricultural products, increasing yield and quality, and valorization through on-site processing,
employment and value-added in the locality
and creating a basic agricultural structure based on marketing as a brand;
"Agricultural Cities", which are rural attraction units where agriculture-industry integration is ensured, will be established in order to direct investment and technology to rural areas.
Virtual stock exchanges for agricultural and industrial enterprises will be established and trading will be
encouraged from these centers.
Pollution of soil and water resources by misuse and fragmentation of agricultural land and pollution of soil and water resources will be prevented and farmers will be made aware of the efficient and effective use of fertilizers, pesticides and water resources.
Agricultural sales cooperatives will operate in a modern manner
It will be ensured that Agricultural Sales Cooperatives Unions will operate rationally in line with modern management principles.
Agricultural Credit Cooperatives will be institutionalized to meet the financing needs of farmers.
All kinds of information, warnings on scientific, technical, technological and meteorological issues and agricultural publications that will contribute positively to the economic, social and cultural life of our farmers will be carried out.
Domestic certified breeding animals, artificial insemination and livestock breeding will be supported;
milk incentive premium will be given.
Production of fodder crops, which are the most important inputs of animal husbandry, will be encouraged and
production of vegetable crude oil and oilseed crops will be supported.
Livestock and fodder crops production will be supported.
Seeds, seedlings, saplings and breeding animal materials adapted to the country's conditions will be developed more widely and made available to farmers.
Effective measures will be taken to bring "food safety and reliability" to modern norms in our country and to protect and raise consumer awareness.
Organic agriculture will be made widespread
Organic agricultural production activities will be made widespread throughout the country and
producers will be made aware of the use of agricultural pesticides and chemicals.
Taking into account local and geographical conditions, "Agricultural Specialized Centers" will be established on food and livestock issues.
Agricultural products and finished goods will be analyzed in "accredited laboratories" to protect consumer health.
Genetic engineering, bio-technology, irrigation and mechanization technologies will be effectively utilized.
Development and production of high yield and high quality seeds suitable for the conditions of our country will be supported and
foreign dependency in seeds will be eliminated.
To this end, the Seed Law will be revised.
Protection and utilization of local seed varieties will be ensured.
5.Urfa Seed Production and Genetic Research Center will be established A
seed production and genetic research center will be established in Şanlıurfa.
Smuggling of animals and various agricultural products and food will be prevented.
Smuggling of animals, agricultural products and food will be prevented. The
necessary administrative, legal and technical infrastructure will be established in order to have a say in the sale, marketing and price determination of the products that we have a large share in world production by creating added value, and the necessary
investments will be made for this purpose.
Futures exchanges, which are an important tool in ensuring price stability in agricultural products, will be activated,
commodity exchanges will be developed, and the use of licensed warehouses will be expanded.
Importance and priority will be given to infrastructure projects for irrigation of areas that can be technically and economically opened for irrigation to the maximum extent.
Development of forest villagers
Development of forest villagers and expansion of protection services will be ensured.
By combining the forest cadastre with the general cadastre, property disputes will be resolved,
forest villagers will be saved from litigation with the state.
In order to support forestry, private forestry will be developed by allocating land free of charge to forest villagers and real and legal persons who request it, under certain conditions and for certain periods.
Forest villagers settled in the natural gelişim areas of forests and unable to do any other work other than forestry will be allocated land for agricultural production and will be provided with housing.
The vacated areas will be forested and turned into no-occupation zones.
Private forestry to be developed
Increasing production, processing and valorization of products,
The standard of living of our farmers will be raised by ensuring their domestic and international marketing.
P. REDUCING INTERREGIONAL DEVELOPMENT DISPARITIES
Regional and provincial development plans will be prepared throughout the country to identify the characteristics, differences, development levels, main problems and potentials of regions, provinces and districts.
"Provincial Investment and Development Offices" will be established with the
"Provincial Investment and Development Offices" will be established with the active participation of relevant public institutions, universities, chambers of industry and commerce, professional organizations and non-governmental organizations under the coordination of governorships in order to strengthen the private sector and develop entrepreneurship and competitive spirit.
Through "provincial action plans" to be prepared by the Provincial Investment and Development Offices within the framework of regional and provincial development plans, the problems of each settlement in the province will be identified and solved rapidly with the cooperation of the private sector and non-governmental organizations.
Target sectors will be identified for each province and district
Target sectors will be identified for each province and district.
Especially for small-scale provinces and districts, target sub-sectors will be concretely determined based on the principle of "one province/district one sector" and
support will be given to projects to be implemented in cooperation between the State and the Nation.
Investment incentives will be determined at the local level according to objective criteria to be developed
will be given thematically on the basis of units.
An effective monitoring system will be established to ensure that incentives are realized in line with their intended purpose.
In order to mobilize local potential, a risk capital and credit guarantee fund system will be developed for less developed regions.
Public investments to be made will be graded according to their priorities on provincial and regional basis, and second priority investments will not be made until the first priority investments are completed.
Medium-sized provinces with potential in the fields of industry and services will be identified, the infrastructure needs of these centers will be rapidly met
and a favorable investment climate will be created for the private sector.
The infrastructure of our villages with a high tendency to develop will be completed rapidly.
These centers of attraction, which can also be called functional regional centers, are intended to direct the migration tendency from rural areas to metropolises to these centers by rapidly solving problems related to drinking water, sewerage, housing and transportation, without causing distorted urbanization.
The villages with a high tendency to develop will be identified and the infrastructure of these villages will be completed rapidly
and these activities will be carried out within the framework of State-Nation cooperation.
People living in small villages and hamlets around these functional villages will be encouraged to move towards functional villages while maintaining their own land-based activities.
For the population remaining in agricultural areas, agricultural extension activities will be emphasized,
volunteer farmers will be selected and modern and exemplary agricultural practices will be implemented.
In order to increase productivity in agriculture, necessary legal and institutional arrangements will be made to prevent the division of agricultural areas
and to determine optimum enterprise sizes.
Specialization of universities in a specific field according to the characteristics of the regions will be ensured.
Entrepreneur-university cooperation will be strengthened The
level of entrepreneur-university relationship will be taken as a criterion in resource allocation to the university following the establishment of the necessary infrastructure to strengthen entrepreneur-university cooperation in the region.
Financial and social benefits will be provided for key positions in underdeveloped regions to encourage qualified personnel to work in the region.
R. URBANIZATION, HOUSING AND ENVIRONMENT
Our Party believes that the implementation of a correct urbanization policy in parallel with industrialization is as important and prioritized as industrialization and sees these two phenomena as two complementary elements that complement each other with the right plans to be made in line with the basic principle of living in a healthy environment.
Land registry and cadastre works will be completed at the national level
. Land registry and cadastre works will be completed at the national level; the
confusion in the establishment and development of housing, industry, tourism, agriculture and other areas will be eliminated through the completion of upper scale plans and the
infrastructure for orderly urbanization will be established.
In order to establish urbanization and industrialization together in a healthy and livable environment, industrial, technological and organized industrial zones, financial and commercial centers with adequate infrastructure will be established together with residential areas.
Land production will be increased by establishing a relationship between the rate of urbanization and land supply in order to prevent overcrowding and unplanned construction in cities due to industrialization and migration.
The relationship between urbanization and land supply will be established, and
land production will be increased.
In order to prevent degeneration in the urban fabric, urban and urban culture will be established within the framework of the basic determinant of national culture.
In addition to leaving a healthy environment and city infrastructure for future generations, urban plans will be realized for settlements suitable for cultural and natural structure.
The rehabilitation of slum areas will ensure their social and economic integration with urban centers.
The use of technology and standardized materials based on thermal insulation and earthquake resistance will be ensured in the production of housing and all kinds of buildings,
emphasis will be given to the production of healthy, safe, quality and affordable housing,
effective supervision will be carried out from the ground survey stage to the occupancy license stage.
housing production will be effectively supervised from ground survey to settlement
Urban planning and city management information system will be established.
The real estate inventory of our country will be prepared and the existing buildings will be tanimlanacak in terms of quality and quantity and urbanization and housing policies will be directed accordingly.
Land speculation will be prevented by converting state-owned lands into land and thus
housing costs will be reduced.
Regulations will be made to prevent zoning corruption.
Public institutions and organizations with zoning authority and municipalities will not be allowed to create urban rents and to use public resources for their cronies.
The main objective of our housing policy is to meet the housing needs of low-income citizens as a requirement of the principle of being a social state, as well as to solve legal problems related to the existing housing stock çözülmesi and to improve its quality.
In order to enable low- and middle-income citizens to acquire housing, the production of land with infrastructure will be expanded
and land will be converted into housing through revenue sharing.
The houses produced in this way will be sold to low- and middle-income citizens with long-term affordable installments.
For this purpose, financing models including long-term housing loan mechanisms will be developed.
The state will produce social housing for the needy and destitute, and
projects will be implemented to ensure the active support of private enterprise and non-governmental organizations.
In order to minimize the damages of earthquakes and other natural disasters, necessary legal arrangements, training and organization will be finalized before the disaster.
The State will produce social housing for the needy and orphans.
All kinds of settlements will be established in safe areas where geographical and geological surveys have been completed, and
existing settlements will be evaluated in terms of geological surveys, environmental plans and quality, and transformation projects for healthy, safe and orderly urbanization and housing will be implemented.
construction in risky areas.
In land use and zoning plans, areas will be identified according to risk priorities and arrangements will be made to prevent construction in risky areas.
Arbitrary practices in zoning planning and amendments that cause victimization of citizens will be eliminated, and the
building inspection and insurance system will be expanded.
An administrative restructuring to include zoning-planning, land registry, cadastre, urban planning, environment, natural disasters and housing will eliminate the institutional multiplicity in this field.
The state's production of housing for commercial purposes will be terminated and only housing for lower income groups will be built.
Housing cooperatives will be supported and victimization of citizens will be prevented by activating the inspection system.
In parallel with the development efforts in our country, a stable and balanced environmental policy will be implemented for the future in line with the objectives and principles for the protection and development of the environmental balance and resources.
In this framework, ecological and economic decisions will be handled in harmony and integrity with each other
Environmentally friendly technology will be encouraged in investments
The right to live in a clean environment is one of the fundamental rights of every human being.
Environmental problems will be overcome with a sustainable development model that envisages a rational protection, utilization and development instead of a development, environment-protection dichotomy, and a clean, livable environment with preserved natural and cultural values will be ensured for future generations.
Economic and social policies will be harmonized with environmental policies, and
human health, ecological balance, cultural, historical and aesthetic values will be protected while realizing development.
In the formulation of the national environmental policy, national and regional priorities will be taken into account in addition to the evaluation of the cost-benefit and risk factors of each project in terms of economy, health and environment, and
environmental sensitivity will be given due importance during the site selection phase of the facilities.
The use of environmentally friendly technology in investments will be encouraged.
In order to ensure a healthy structure for tourism, industry, agriculture and urbanization, it will be ensured that environmental plans are completed throughout the country.
Environmental problems will be addressed as an element of the overall development plan within the framework of predetermined criteria, not as problems to be solved after the occurrence of pollution.
Water losses and leakages will be prevented and
protected from pollution
Losses and leakages in existing water supply facilities will be prevented to ensure efficient use of the country's resources.
Protection of underground and surface water resources from pollution and the use of waste water in agriculture and industry after treatment will be encouraged.
Importance and priority shall be given to wastewater treatment and investments to ensure recycling of solid wastes as an economic value
and industrial enterprises and municipalities shall be encouraged for this purpose.
Investments ensuring recycling of wastes will be given importance and priority
Integrated environmental policies that take into account water, air, soil and sea together will be developed.
Environmental police and specialized courts will be established to ensure efficiency in environmental control.
An environmental information system will be established.
Meteorological measurement stations will be developed in such a way that they can also perform measurements related to environmental pollution, and the database to be created will be made available for use in the design phase of new facilities.
Fertile agricultural lands will be protected and misuse and erosion will be prevented.
Emphasis will be given to education and informing the public opinion in order to strengthen the understanding of protecting our natural riches as a society and to develop environmental awareness.
Research and conservation of the biological diversity and genetic resources of our country and their economic value will be ensured.
Wetlands, endemic and endangered plants and animals will be protected,
international smuggling will be prevented,
import of genetically modified products will be restricted
and a "Gene Bank" will be established to protect and preserve our gene resources.
Endemic and endangered plants and animals will be protected
Agriculture, environment and technology policies will be addressed together to minimize the risks related to biosafety and genetically modified organisms.
Coastal area planning and management will be implemented that considers the coast, sea, rivers, lakes, artificial lakes and other wetlands, their surroundings and ecosystems as a whole.
S. SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
The main goal of the Nationalist Movement Party in science and technology is to close the gap with developed countries and ensure the transition to an information society.
Our policy is based on an understanding of the interaction between science-technology-innovation-production.
A "Ministry of Science, Technology and Communication" will be established to ensure the transition to an information society, to carry out scientific and technological research and development effectively and to ensure coordination.
Ministry of Science, Technology and Communication to be established
By creating the infrastructure of the information society, the adoption of an electronic lifestyle in all areas of life will be ensured.
Emphasis will be given to establishing the legislation, administrative structure and human capacity of internet infrastructure in accordance with modern norms and standards as a requirement of "e-lifestyle".
Public services will be provided in electronic environment.
This will ensure fast and quality service,
many practices that cause corruption and irregularities will be eliminated.
As a requirement of the e-lifestyle, life will be made easier by giving everyone a smart card containing citizenship information such as population, education, health, social security and tax information.
Emphasis will be given to preparing the society for the information age by expanding the use of computers and the latest communication technologies in public institutions, training centers and industry.
All public institutions and organizations will be provided with electronic services, and
schools, libraries, municipalities and mukhtar offices will be provided with computer infrastructure and fast internet access.
Internet in every home, Internet for everyone The
project "Internet in every home, Internet for everyone" will be implemented with the aim of expanding the use of computers and the Internet.
Scientific and technological research will be transformed into production and social benefit through innovations and related patents.
The necessary "National Innovation System" will be established.
Following the establishment of the National Innovation System,
Following the establishment of the National Innovation System, sectoral and local innovation systems will be established
and the system will be structured according to regional characteristics.
Support will be provided for R&D studies necessary for technological innovation and innovation of technological products.
The intellectual property rights system will be strengthened to protect patents, trademarks, industrial designs and copyrights.
Technology Transfer Centers will be established
"Technology Transfer Centers" will be established to transfer R&D results to industry and production.
More public resources will be allocated to R&D investments.
In addition, private sector investments in R&D and technological production will be supported.
The share of R&D expenditures in GDP will be increased to 2.5% within five years.
For this purpose, an R&D fund will be established with a share from public tenders.
Joint university-industry research centers will be established
Effective university-industry cooperation will be realized
. Joint university-industry research centers will be established and the
private sector will be enabled to benefit from the R&D capacity of universities.
The procurement policies of all public institutions, particularly those for the defense industry, will be based on R&D and will be used to improve our science, technology and innovation capabilities.
In order to enable universities, research institutions and the private sector to benefit from international funds, the development and implementation of R&D projects in priority and advanced technology areas will be encouraged.
R&D Fund will be established
R&D activities will be prioritized in strategic technologies of our time such as Information Production Technologies, Biotechnology and Gene Technologies, Nanotechnology, Mechatronics, Manufacturing, Process and Technology, Material Technologies, Energy Technologies and Design Technologies.
Research manpower will be developed in terms of quality and quantity
and their employment will be encouraged.
Techno-cities, which are one of the most important tools for establishing university-industry cooperation in a permanent and strong way and for making a breakthrough in the scientific and technological field, will be opened in organized industrial zones as well as universities.
Employment of Turkish researchers and foreign researchers who have distinguished themselves in their fields in research projects and production to be implemented in our country will be encouraged.
"Ankara Basic Research Center (ATAM)" will be established "
Ankara Basic Research Center" ATAM will be established as a scientific research center of the Turkic World.
T. ECONOMIC OBJECTIVES AND POLICIES
1- Five-Year Economic Program
Growth that does not create jobs and is not reflected in the welfare of citizens,
deteriorating income distribution,
unsustainable debt stock,
high foreign trade and current account deficits,
high real interest rates, unrealistic exchange rate policy,
import-dependent production and exports, an
increasingly alienated financial sector, a
fragile structure based on hot money and foreign borrowing are the main problems of our country's economy.
To establish a highly competitive production economy by overcoming these chronic fundamental problems
and to strengthen the social fabric by increasing the welfare of society;
The Nationalist Movement Party will implement an independent and national "Economic Program" that takes into account our country's own means and conditions, natural and human resources.
employment-friendly growth,
fair income distribution,
competitive exchange rate policy,
sustainable debt management will be established
The main objectives of the five-year Economic Program we will implement are as follows: To establish an employment-friendly, sustainable growth environment,
Reducing unemployment and poverty
and to make income distribution more equitable,
Implement a competitive exchange rate policy,
To establish a highly competitive production economy by reducing the dependence of production and exports on imports,
Reducing the economy's external resource dependence, making it resilient to shocks and reducing vulnerability,
*Reducing public and private sector debt stock to a sustainable level.
high value-added and innovative production economy
Within the framework of the main objectives of the program; * Competitive market economy geliştirilecek and legal infrastructure will be strengthened.
*A high value-added and innovative production economy will be established.
*Information and communication technologies will be expanded.
*Necessary measures will be taken to improve the business and investment environment.
*Financial system and capital markets will be strengthened
and small investors will be protected.
*External dependency will be reduced by developing new and renewable energy sources.
*Transportation infrastructure will be improved and a widespread, fast, safe and cheap transportation system will be established.
*Public financial management and financial control system will be made effective.
*Informality in the economy will be reduced.
*Agriculture sector will be modernized and productivity will be increased
and agricultural products will be processed and their added value will be increased.
*By increasing the financing opportunities of SMEs, they will be provided with a structure that can compete in the international arena.
*A realistic exchange rate policy that will make the increase in exports sustainable will be implemented,
The incentive system will be made effective.
*The Ministry of Economy will be established in order to ensure coordination of institutions and organizations related to the economy and a more effective economic management.
Ministry of Economy to be established
2- Economic Growth
Growth based on imports that does not create jobs and does not reflect on the welfare of citizens is not sustainable.
Highly competitive industrialization strategy The
establishment of a stable and sustainable growth structure will be possible through the identification and implementation of medium- and long-term development strategies that will ensure the reduction of the development gap with developed countries in the long term.
In this context, the active support and cooperation of social segments will be ensured,
it is of great importance to formulate an industrialization strategy with high competitiveness and to allocate public resources to this purpose in a selective structure.
Necessary tax, credit, incentive, etc. support will be provided for investments in technology-based, high value-added goods and services, and the
technical and physical infrastructure required for investment will be realized in a public-private partnership approach.
Lower real interest rates, a realistic exchange rate policy and a corresponding reduction in the current account deficit, and an extension of the maturity of the debt stock will create an environment of confidence and stability in the economy
, reduce uncertainty about the future
and prepare the economic environment for investment.
An economic structure that takes into account not only domestic demand but also external demand will be created to ensure a healthy and sustainable structure of the economy in the medium-long term.
Apart from traditional factors of production such as capital stock and labor, another important component of sustainable economic growth is total factor productivity.
Support will be provided for investments in technology-based, high value-added goods and services.
Total factor productivity will be increased in the medium and long term through investments in education expenditures, research and development expenditures, institutional and physical infrastructure investments, foreign direct investments and external openness.
Thus, the contribution of total factor productivity to growth, which averaged 37 percent in the 1990-2005 period, is projected to increase to 44 percent in the 2008-2012 period.
7 percent growth per year and 3.5 million jobs in 5 years With
the five-year economic program that our Party will implement, an average annual growth of 7 percent will be realized
and approximately 700 thousand new jobs will be created every year.
3- Monetary Policy and Price Stability
The Nationalist Movement Party aims to permanently reduce inflation to 3 percent over a five-year period and to achieve price stability.
Inflation to be permanently reduced to 3 percent
To this end, in order to bring down inflation and maintain price stability, public deficits and public debt stock will be reduced and the weight of the public sector on financial markets will be eased.
Within the framework of the program we will implement, by increasing tax revenues and reducing public deficits, the debt problem will be solved, the pressure on interest rates will be reduced
and monetary policy can be implemented in a healthy way in an environment of falling real interest rates.
Monetary and fiscal policies will be harmonized
Maintaining a realistic fiscal policy and implementing the programmed structural reforms will support the effectiveness of monetary policy by reducing the cost of lowering inflation on the one hand, and by reducing the discrepancies between inflation expectations and targets on the other.
Achieving price stability and finalizing structural reforms urgently are essential for a sustainable growth trend.
In order to maintain price stability, monetary and exchange rate policies that will ensure sustainable growth and reduce debt and the current account deficit to reasonable levels will be pursued.
The fact that the anti-inflation policy is based solely on the overvaluation of the New Turkish Lira not only negatively affects inflation expectations, but also leads to a rapid increase in the foreign trade deficit and the current account deficit, thereby increasing vulnerability in the economy.
Indeed, exchange rate fluctuations can lead to significant deviations from the explicit inflation target.
Policies based on low exchange rates and high real interest rates seem to be positive because they contribute to lower inflation in the short term, but they prevent structural measures from being taken.
and increase foreign borrowing.
A free exchange rate policy will be implemented A
free exchange rate policy will be implemented where exchange rates are determined according to market conditions.
However, given the shallowness of the market, excessive fluctuations in exchange rates and speculative movements will be intervened in the short term.
Likewise, artificial appreciation of the Turkish currency, which would prevent competition in international markets and encourage increased imports, will not be allowed.
As a result of the policies to be implemented, a process in which high growth rates and price stability can be achieved together will be achieved.
Moreover, achieving price stability by bringing inflation down permanently
will help to make income distribution more equitable.
4. Budget Policy
The main objective of fiscal policy is to reduce the public debt stock to a sustainable level by achieving a permanent reduction in public deficits.
Revenues policy will be efficiency-related and prospective
To this end, revenues policy will be efficiency-related and forward-looking,
waste and inefficiency in expenditures will be prevented,
tax revenues will be increased by spreading taxation across the tax base without increasing tax rates.
In order to ensure financial and administrative efficiency in Turkish public financial management, the relationship between plan - program - budget will be strengthened,
financial risks will be taken into account in advance, and the
system will be made more transparent and accountable.
Waste and irregularities will be prevented by ensuring efficiency in public expenditures, and
more public services will be produced with less resources.
Thus, public deficits will be minimized by reducing the pressure on public expenditures.
waste and irregularities in public expenditures will be prevented. the
primary surplus target will be reduced to a level that will not hinder public investments and social support.
Our Party aims to ensure that more of the resources generated in the economy are utilized by the private sector, and with the fiscal policy it will implement, Turkey's economy will remain in a stable growth process for a long period of time.
In an environment of lower public deficits on the one hand and high and stable economic growth on the other, real interest rates will also be realized at reasonable levels.
In such an economic environment, where confidence is fully restored and uncertainties are removed, the public debt stock will be brought down rapidly through good debt management.
5- Tax Policy
Our basic approach to taxation is to base our tax policy on a tax strategy for the medium and long term.
Tax laws will be completely revised and simplicity and efficiency in implementation will be ensured.
In tax regulations, in addition to the priorities related to public financing, the effects of tax on production and employment and the social aspect will be considered together.
Tax laws will be completely revised to ensure simplicity and efficiency in implementation.
The tax system will be transformed into a dynamic structure that takes into account the economic, social and cultural structure of the country.
Tax exemptions and exceptions will be selective, taking into account macro targets and economic and regional development policies.
A program of tax reductions and facilities will be introduced for those who invest, increase employment, production and exports.
A high rate of "investment incentive" will be applied to investment projects that create high added value and employment.
A fair tax system in which everyone pays taxes according to their financial ability will be established.
Citizens who have never owned a house but are buying a house for the first time will be given the opportunity to deduct the interest they pay for bank loans from their income.
Reductions in tax rates will stimulate the economy and broaden the tax base.
By reducing the share of indirect taxes in tax revenues, the tax burden of low-income earners will be eased and tax justice will be ensured.
Emphasis will be placed on unitary taxation, taking into account the principles of individuality of income tax and taxation according to financial power.
Electronic commerce and new transactions brought about by technological development will be taxed in a way that does not hinder exchange, savings and capital movements.
The withholding tax rates applied to securities capital income will not discriminate between domestic and foreigners, and
tax will be levied at the same rate.
Local-foreign distinction in withholding tax to be abolished
Higher taxes on interest income from securities and lower taxes on trading gains
and thus ensure depth in the market.
value-added tax rate will be gradually reduced for basic necessities
The value-added tax rate will be gradually reduced, primarily on food, education and health expenditures.
Rates of transaction taxes (SMV, stamp tax, fees, etc.) will be reduced to prevent them from encouraging the informal economy.
Minimum wage earners will not be taxed, and a portion of all workers' income equal to the minimum wage will be excluded from taxation.
A separate tax tariff will be applied to wage income
and tax rates will be set 5 percentage points lower.
Bureaucratic procedures and obstacles to tax collection that cause loss of time and jeopardize public receivables will be removed.
An effective collection model will be developed
and maximum public interest will be pursued in tax settlements.
Tax awareness will be raised among taxpayers and citizens.
For this purpose, tax education will be provided in schools starting from basic education.
Tax consultation and complaint units will be expanded in centers where economic activities are intense.
The application of the Turkish ID number will be made widespread in all transactions and informality in the economy will be effectively combated.
effective fight against informality
Clarify the distinction between informal economic activities and money laundering activities
and a separate strategy for combating black money.
Efficiency in tax audit will be ensured.
The inspection system will be strengthened in terms of manpower and physical infrastructure.
6- Debt Management Policy
As a result of the "implicit fixed exchange rate" and high real interest rate policies implemented in recent years, both the foreign trade deficit has increased and foreign borrowing has become attractive.
In the four years between 2002 and 2006, public debt stock increased from USD 180.3 billion to USD 272.3 billion, private sector external debt stock increased from USD 44 billion to USD 121.2 billion, total debt stock increased by 76 percent to USD 393.8 billion and per capita debt reached USD 5,395.
By May-2007, total debt had risen to $408.1 billion and per capita debt to $5,592.
Real growth, real interest rates and budget balance are key to lowering the public debt stock.
It is not possible to succeed if only one of these is taken into account.
As a result of the eco-nomic program to be implemented by the Nationalist Movement Party, the economy will show a high growth performance,
to be established in domestic and foreign markets
As a result of trust, real borrowing costs will be realized at reasonable levels.
Supported by strong fiscal policies
In such an economic environment, it will be possible to reduce public debt rapidly.
Borrowing cost will be reduced and maturity structure will be extended
Debt management will be treated as a separate stabilization policy, like monetary and fiscal policy.
A sustainable, transparent and accountable borrowing policy that is consistent with monetary and fiscal policies will be pursued.
Efforts to reduce the cost of borrowing and extend the maturity structure will be supported by fiscal policies.
Computerized trading operations will be made widespread in order to facilitate fast, safe and inexpensive borrowing transactions and to simplify the transactions relatively.
Alternative methods and instruments will be used in borrowing.
Alternative methods and instruments will be used in borrowing to extend the maturity of domestic debt, ensure its convertibility and reduce the debt burden.
For this purpose, new securities such as bonds with bonuses or premiums, as in some countries, and tiered bonds will be used, taking into account country conditions.
In addition, inflation- and FX-indexed, convertible bonds and floating rate bonds will be issued depending on the circumstances.
In order to extend the maturity of domestic debt, long-term special-issue bonds will be issued for non-bank financial institutions such as insurance companies, private pension funds, savings funds, provident funds and retirement funds.
In order to reduce the cost of borrowing, the bidding system will be made competitive by reaching out to a wide range of investors.
This requires the existence of a deep and effectively functioning secondary market.
Consequently, in order to ensure high liquidity of debt securities, emphasis will be placed on methods that allow the securities to be repaid before maturity, to be exchanged for other securities, and to be sold in parts.
In external borrowing, the foreign currency composition will be diversified in line with developments in international markets,
financial instruments will be utilized to reduce risk and cost
, and different markets will be targeted.
Reducing the stock of private sector debt, especially the external debt stock of non-bank corporations, which has almost tripled in four years
and necessary measures will be taken to mitigate the exchange rate risk.
7- KIT and Privatization Policy
SEEs will be consolidated in a single portfolio and managed in a profitable and efficient manner.
Under this system of less interventionist and more market-oriented SEE policy, the Privatization Administration will be restructured
and will be transformed into a procurement agency that only carries out privatization transactions.
In the SEEs, a professional management approach will be adopted, moving away from a control-role management approach and towards a profit and tax-oriented SOE management.
a profit and tax-oriented CIT business will be shifted to a profit and tax-oriented CIT business
To ensure that production in the sectors where the SEEs to be privatized or liquidated are located after privatization or liquidation is realized is not disrupted
and care will be taken not to become dependent on imports.
Public offering method will be the basis for privatization
Privatization through public offerings instead of block sales will help to spread capital to the grassroots.
and will contribute to the formation of competitive markets.
Market regulatory efforts to prevent the replacement of state monopolies by private sector monopolies will continue.
The principle of transparency will be fully implemented in privatizations and no practice that would disturb the public conscience will be allowed.
The SEEs to be privatized will be privatized in the most favorable environment and in a way that will contribute to and not hinder the functioning of the sector in which they are located.
Necessary investments will be made in the loss-making SEEs that can be rehabilitated, and those that
cannot be rehabilitated and are not natural monopolies in their sectors will be liquidated.
Loss-making SEEs will be rehabilitated
A portion of the proceeds from the sale of SEEs, which are the property of the whole society, will be used to finance social policies for citizens on low and fixed incomes.
In the railway sector, which has been able to continue its activities with state support due to the high cost of operation, state support will continue
, but privatization of the operation will be preferred instead of the state assuming the risks arising from the operation.
State-owned infrastructure facilities such as bridges, highways and dams will not be privatized, and
income partnership bonds will be issued for these facilities to create resources and offer alternative investment instruments for lower and middle income groups.
income partnership bonds will be issued for state-owned infrastructure facilities
8- Public Investment Policy
The main objective in the realization of public investments is to contribute to the economic growth of the projects by ensuring efficiency in the planning and implementation of investments.
and accordingly maximizing its contribution to social welfare.
In doing so, it will be essential that public and private sector investments are directed to rational and complementary investment areas.
Within the framework of the principle of effective and efficient use of public resources, it will be ensured to concentrate on the economic and social infrastructure services that the country needs, especially justice, security, education, health and technology infrastructure, and
it will be the basic principle to provide the urgent and priority services needed by the society as soon as possible.
Priority will be given to investment projects in energy, defense, transport, aviation and space, R&D, software and development of new technologies.
In addition to sectoral and regional priorities, priority will be given to projects that are still feasible and prioritized; projects that can be completed in a very short time and brought into the economy, projects that have achieved significant physical realization in their implementation, and projects that need to be carried out and completed in connection with or simultaneously with other projects that have been initiated.
Priority investment projects will be identified
Priority investment projects will be allocated the necessary resources
and will be completed within the stipulated timeframe and will be returned as soon as possible.
Funds will not be allocated to projects that are not based on realistic studies.
Instead of borrowing without a specific strategy and implementing projects according to the source of financing provided, an understanding of external financing based on sectoral and project-based priorities will be established.
In the management of public projects, the basic principles to be followed at each stage of "project cycle management", i.e. project identification, preparation, analysis, implementation, monitoring and evaluation, will be determined and arbitrariness and disorganization in implementation will be prevented.
Project management will be activated in public institutions
and performance audits will be ensured in a targeted manner.
Project management will be activated in public institutions.
Planning and implementation of projects in important infrastructure sectors will be based on master plans to be prepared for this purpose.
Projects that are not in line with the priorities in the master plans will not be brought to the agenda.
Participation mechanisms will be established and developed to ensure the participation of the public in project formation and decision-making processes in important projects (economic and social development projects) that concern large segments of the society.
9Policies Regarding the Financial System
In order for policies aimed at achieving sustainable growth and price stability to be effective, the financial system must function properly.
In this framework, all elements of the financial system will be strengthened
and their sound structure will be ensured.
A risk-based premium system will be established in deposit insurance The
deposit insurance system will be reviewed and a risk-based premium system that takes into account the risks of banks will be established
, thus preventing banks from abusing the system
and creating a competitive environment by enabling depositors to be more selective.
The rehabilitation of the banks under the management of the Savings Deposit Insurance Fund will be completed as soon as possible and their sale will be realized in a transparent manner.
After the collection of receivables is completed, the Savings Deposit Insurance Fund will be restructured
and will operate only as a deposit insurance institution and will not
be responsible for liquidation procedures.
It will be essential to solve the problems of banks without transferring them to the Fund, and banks whose financial structure cannot be strengthened despite the measures will be liquidated.
Agricultural Bank will be restructured and will remain a public bank
, supporting the modernization of the agricultural sector and agricultural production,
but managed on the basis of efficiency and performance like the private sector.
Halk Bank will be sold through a public offering,
Ziraat Bank will remain in the public sector.
In the sale of Halk Bank, priority will be given to the public offering and professional organizations that are interested in the sector, and
block sales will not be allowed.
The shares of Vakifbank, which are under public management, will be sold and it will be fully managed by the private sector in an efficient manner.
Development Bank will be used effectively in SME financing The
Development Bank of Turkey will be restructured, run efficiently and used effectively in SME financing.
In particular, it will be ensured to support projects aimed at eliminating interregional development disparities.
The Emerging Companies Market (ECM), which was established for SMEs, will be put into operation as soon as possible and its effective functioning will be ensured.
Measures will be taken to make the banking sector able to provide continuous financial support to the real sector.
In parallel with the Basel-II process, companies' balance sheets will be made more transparent,
their implementation of corporate governance principles will be encouraged
and they will be enabled to find financing more easily.
resources of the Credit Guarantee Fund system will be increased The
resources of the Credit Guarantee Fund system will be increased to enable SMEs to obtain more loans from banks.
In addition, the Credit Guarantee Fund and the risk capital system will be made effective and the collateral problem of SMEs will be solved.
The resources of the Export Credit Bank of Turkey (Eximbank) will be increased and its effectiveness in financing and insuring exports will be enhanced to contribute to an export-led growth structure.
In this framework, Eximbank will open branches and expand its correspondent network in cities with significant share and potential in exports.
Eximbank's resources and efficiency will be increased.
Companies will be encouraged to list on the stock exchange and facilities will be introduced to encourage their institutionalization.
Those who manipulate the stock market will be prevented.
Factors causing loss of confidence will be eliminated and
relations with international organizations and exchanges will be increased.
Care will be taken to preserve the national character of financial markets and a strategy to balance the foreign share in the banking sector will be implemented.
A Financial Markets Authority will be established to cover the entire financial sector.
A Financial Markets Authority will be established to cover the banking, capital markets and other financial sectors to ensure that all financial markets function in a healthier and more stable manner and contribute to balanced economic growth.
10- Foreign Trade and Balance of Payments
Record high foreign trade deficits and current account deficits adversely affect the economic structure of Turkey and increase its vulnerability.
Sustainable growth by reducing the import dependency of production and exports, as required by the export-led and employment-friendly growth model that underpins our economic program
and policies to ensure export growth will be pursued.
Import dependency of production and exports will be reduced
In this context, exporting high value-added, knowledge and technology-intensive products;
to focus on dynamic markets that are increasingly important in world trade, have high purchasing power, young populations and dynamic markets;
develop trade with neighboring countries;
strategies such as reaching the final consumer will be adopted.
In order to increase production capacity and productivity in the manufacturing industry, investments in technology and knowledge-intensive sectors will be encouraged.
Policies will be adopted to develop and support the fashion and brand-oriented textile and apparel industry, electrical and electronic machinery and devices industry, automotive main and sub-industry, machinery-manufacturing industry, iron and steel industry, food industry and IT sectors.
Creating the Image of Turkish Goods and Brands Making the
necessary efforts to create the "Image of Turkish Goods and Brands" in foreign markets will make a significant contribution to improving export performance in the long term.
In order to achieve these objectives, emphasis will be placed on promotional activities and global brand building.
Considering the importance of reducing input costs for export performance, measures to reduce input costs, particularly energy costs, will be emphasized.
The export incentive system will be restructured, especially export commitment closure.
By enabling the tax administration to access the databases of other relevant public institutions, particularly the customs administration, tax refund claims will be concluded more quickly.
Due to the problems encountered in cash VAT refunds, the practice of refund by set-off will be expanded.
Within the scope of encouraging exports through credit, insurance and guarantee programs, Turk Eximbank will be strengthened by becoming more active in financing exports in the new period,
bureaucratic procedures will be reduced and timely use of Eximbank credits will be ensured.
The export incentive system will be restructured. The
expansion of overseas store chains will be supported in order to gain a permanent market share in foreign markets.
Promotion and participation in fairs will be increased;
fairs and business forums will be organized during international meetings hosted by Turkey,
export products will be promoted during business council meetings, especially in target countries,
and cooperation with Turkish businessmen residing abroad will be increased.
Imports of poor quality and excessively cheap goods will be closely monitored
Specialized customs will be operated more effectively in order to deter imports of consumer goods,
imports of excessively cheap and poor quality goods will be monitored more closely,
the practices carried out within the framework of the legislation on unfair competition in imports, surveillance and standard control will be meticulously continued.
Money in remittance accounts, which were initiated to attract workers' remittances to Turkey and to relieve the foreign exchange shortage, is invested in securities of foreign companies and governments, like the rest of the Central Bank's reserves, and does not contribute to the national economy, except as a guarantee.
A mechanism will be established to ensure that the savings of workers abroad are transferred to the Turkish financial sector through the banking sector and capital market instruments (asset-backed securities issuance, etc.) in order to bring them into the national economy and use them in production and other fields.
short-term capital flows will be eliminated as a factor of instability.
Measures will be taken to ensure that short-term portfolio investments do not leave the country rapidly and in large amounts as a result of fluctuations in the markets.
Thus, short-term capital flows will no longer be a source of economic instability.
11 Foreign Direct Investment and Private Sector Investment
In order to produce high value-added goods and services with international competitiveness, to realize advanced technology transfer, to increase employment, to improve management capacity and workforce quality, and to protect our national interests,
respect for the environment and people
necessary facilities will be provided to make Turkey attractive for foreign direct capital and private sector investments.
However, foreign capital will not be allowed to become dominant in its sector in a way that would adversely affect national security and economic stability and prevent competition.
One-Stop Business Centers will be established and expanded
"Industrial Zones", which simplify bureaucratic procedures and make it possible to solve all transactions by applying to a single place, will be used as an effective tool to solve problems such as site selection and infrastructure for foreign direct investments.
In this context, "One-Stop Business Centers", which allow all transactions to be carried out in a single center, will be established and expanded.
International competitiveness will be enhanced through measures to ensure that corporate governance principles prevail in the management of companies and to strengthen their financial and corporate structures.
The public and private sectors will work together to attract foreign capital to Turkey, to bring local and foreign investors together and to promote the country effectively.
Industrial Zones will be used as an effective tool
Complying with international standards in the definitions of investment and investor for the purpose of encouraging foreign investments, and not discriminating between foreign and domestic investors in terms of the principles to which they are subject
international practices will be ensured in profit transfers.
By reducing public deficits to reasonable levels and through an effective debt management policy, the excessive demand for public resources will be reduced, thereby relieving the pressure on interest rates to rise
and allowing domestic savings to be utilized more by the private sector.
The principles for the sale of property to foreigners will be determined by taking into account the principle of reciprocity and determining the boundaries on the basis of settlement units separately, in a way that does not threaten national security.
In addition, the principles regarding the right of long-term use will be regulated.
The principles of the sale of property to foreigners will be revised.
In the sale of land for investment purposes, the sale will be based on appropriate use, and the sale will be canceled in the event that the foreseen investments are not realized or the investment is abandoned in due time.
12- Sectoral Targets and Policies
The economic and social council will be operationalized and the process of dialogue with the real sector will be continuous in order to monitor developments more closely and take decisions more quickly.
Non-cost factors such as funds and similar deductions that increase the prices of inputs used by industry will be eliminated.
In sectors with high growth, employment and export capacities, such as textile-clothing and leather goods, emphasis will be given to high value-added products and
they will be brought to a level where they can compete at the international level.
Turkey will become an important regional and global production center in the automotive, white goods, machinery and electronics sectors, which have medium and high level production technologies.
Investment incentives will be granted at high rates to projects that provide high added value and employment.
We will make strides in the defense and aerospace, machinery manufacturing, chemical, electronics and software industries.
Emphasis will be placed on aerospace and space technologies to exploit the capabilities of space for defense and security,
satellite production technologies will be encouraged and an Aerospace Authority will be established.
The production of computer hardware and software as well as technologies that will enable fast data and voice transmission will be encouraged; the
rate of domestic contribution and intellectual property will be increased in the electronics sector, in rapidly developing and high value-added informatics and especially in telecommunication technologies;
trained manpower will be trained in this field and "special zones" with ready infrastructure will be allocated for companies operating in the sector.
"Special zones" with ready infrastructure for the telecommunications sector will be established.
Importance will be given to the transfer, production and use of micro-electronics-based information technologies, and the
electronics and electrical machinery industries will be encouraged to develop new products through R&D support, strengthening university-industry cooperation, and a domestic equipment procurement policy.
In the medium and long term, in order to accelerate growth and increase employment, in addition to taking structural measures, measures will also be taken to support the rapid realization of projects with incentive certificates for which investment decisions have been made by the private sector.
Investment incentives of more than 100 percent will be granted to investment projects that create high added value and employment, and
the employer's share of insurance premiums will be covered by the state at a certain rate and for a certain period of time.
Gold, boron, thorium and similar precious metals will be transformed into new products with high added value instead of being sold unprocessed.
More resources will be allocated to R&D activities.
Additional support will be given to the transition to high value-added products, fashion, brand creation and design in the textile-clothing sector.
Nuclear power generation technology will be acquired
. Nuclear power generation technology will be among our priority targets, and
nuclear power plants will be established to ensure energy supply security.
Hydroelectric energy production will be increased by maximizing the use of water potential, which is one of the clean energy resources.
R&D and investments in alternative energy resources will be encouraged
Research and development studies on utilization of alternative energy resources such as new and renewable energy resources, fusion energy, solar energy, wind energy, biomass energy, geothermal energy will be encouraged
and investments in these areas will be encouraged.
Geothermal resources will be utilized in the tourism and agriculture sectors as well as in housing and workplaces.
TPAO's technical and economic capacity will be strengthened, and
oil and natural gas exploration and production activities in Turkey and abroad will be accelerated by establishing international strategic partnerships.
Our natural resources will be transformed into economic value
In order to transform our natural resources such as oil, natural gas and precious metals into economic value, all opportunities will be mobilized with public-private sector cooperation, and international partnerships will be established in the national interests of Turkey.
Importance will be given to the development of new technologies in oil exploration and extraction activities.
Beyond being a country that only enables energy transit between energy producing and consuming countries, Turkey will become one of the important actors in the market by having the infrastructure to produce value-added energy products.
Prevention of illegal use, improvement of transmission and distribution lines
efficiency in energy use will be increased through the development of advanced technologies in energy use and consumption.
Efficiency in energy use will be increased,
illegal use will be prevented
Fast, safe and technologically innovative, it will establish competition and drive industry,
will safeguard national interests and support economic and social development,
will increase the welfare level of citizens
A widespread, fast, safe and cost-effective transportation system that is integrated with international transportation corridors and that will ensure the satisfaction of users will be established.
Taking into account the position of Turkey in international land transportation, infrastructure deficiencies in land transportation will be eliminated.
Land freight and passenger transportation will be shifted to rail and maritime transportation.
The share of railways in freight and passenger transportation will be increased.
In this framework, while the standard of the existing railways will be raised rapidly and speed and quality will be improved,
new railway investments will be made to connect industrial centers to ports and main lines.
Ankara-Adana and Ankara-İzmir high speed train projects and the "Kars-Tbilisi Railway Project" will be implemented.
Ankara-Adana and Ankara-İzmir high speed train projects will be put into practice. In parallel with
the development of infrastructure in the east-west transportation corridors, investments will be made to ensure port, railway and highway integration in Samsun-Adana and Trabzon-GAP regions within the framework of the development of south-north transportation infrastructure.
The Çanakkale strait crossing project, which will integrate the South Marmara-Aegean and European land transportation corridors, will be realized.
The State Railways Enterprise will be restructured to concentrate on infrastructure management and
arrangements will be made to allow the private sector to operate the lines.
The capacity and efficiency of the maritime transport fleet will be increased.
Investments to increase the capacity and efficiency of the maritime transport fleet will be encouraged, and foreign trade transportation will be carried out by national flagged ships to ensure that the fleet gets a larger share in maritime transportation.
Inadequacies in port infrastructure, terminal facilities and main transportation artery connections in the transportation system will be eliminated.
Taking into account the geographical monopoly position of ports, an effective regulation and supervision system will be established.
Air transport services will be provided in line with international standards,
cost-reducing measures will be taken for the development of regional air passenger transportation, and airline companies will be directed to create fleet capacity suitable for small airport traffic and passenger profile.
Air cargo transportation will also be encouraged and developed.
Increasing revenues by utilizing the four-season tourism potential of our country through a comprehensive tourism planning and determination of tourism policy objectives and strategy
and sustainability will be ensured.
The four-season tourism potential of our country will be utilized.
In order to make good use of the wide range of tourism potential such as sea tourism, history and museum tourism, cave tourism, winter tourism, mountain tourism, river tourism, hunting tourism, health tourism, third age tourism, faith tourism, sports tourism, congress tourism, etc., efficiency will be gained in promotion and marketing in order to get more share from the tourism revenues pie dünya.
By establishing "Free Health Zones", investment and employment opportunities will be provided and
our tourism revenues will be increased.
For this purpose, public lands and facilities, especially in tourism regions, will be allocated free of charge.
Direct foreign capital inflow and continuity of demand will be ensured by supporting the partnership of private health institutions abroad in the companies to be established in these regions.
In addition to the traditional markets, a long-term tourism policy that envisages cooperation and coordination between the private sector and non-governmental organizations will be implemented to open up new markets and create a new image of Turkey.
Taking into account changing consumer preferences, tourism will be developed in regions that have been underutilized to date.
U. SOCIAL AND CULTURAL POLICIES
1- Training and Human Resources Development
Education system will be upgraded to the standards required by the information society
He has the pride and consciousness of belonging to the Turkish Nation,
who have internalized our national and spiritual values,
developed thinking, perception and problem-solving skills,
open to new developments,
high sense of responsibility and social sensitivity,
prone to science and technology production,
entrepreneur, democrat,
The upbringing of cultured and faithful generations is the main objective of our education policy.
The education system will be restructured in such a way as to ensure the training of manpower equipped with the knowledge and skills required by the information society, capable of competing internationally and with an advanced technological culture.
Educational spaces, curricula, educational technologies and manpower will be raised to the standards required by the information society in terms of quality and quantity.
Internet access capacities of all educational institutions from kindergarten to university and libraries will be improved
and free of charge.
Production and use of information technologies for education purposes will be encouraged.
Equality of opportunity in education and training will be ensured and it
will be essential that all members of society are educated in line with their interests, tendencies and abilities.
Equality of opportunity and opportunity in education and training will be ensured
Preschool education will be expanded to develop awareness of national integrity, strengthen moral and spiritual values and ensure socialization
and the population in this age group will be included in the formal education program at an earlier age
Compulsory basic education will be increased to 12 years
The duration of compulsory education will be increased to 12 years with the inclusion of secondary education in the first phase.
The duration of compulsory education will then be gradually increased through the inclusion of pre-primary education in basic education.
For this purpose, the necessary educator-trainer manpower will be trained and
investments in physical infrastructure and educational technologies will be prioritized.
Class sizes will be reduced to less than thirty students at all levels of education
and dual education will be eliminated except under compulsory conditions.
The return of dershanes to private schools will be encouraged.
Examination systems will be made parallel to formal education programs, dershanes will be prevented from assuming the functions of primary and secondary education institutions, and the
grievances of citizens in this regard will be eliminated.
Classrooms will be encouraged to transform into private schools.
Religious education, which we believe contributes significantly to national unity and integrity, to the rapprochement between citizens and the state, and to the elimination of various prejudices, will be provided in schools by the state.
From the sixth grade onwards, elective courses such as Reading and Understanding the Qur'an, Knowledge of the Catechism, Life of the Prophets will be offered to support religious education.
In addition to providing information about the principles of belief, worship and ethics of Islam and the life and exemplary ethics of our Prophet, Summer Quran Courses will be provided with an
education will be provided with an understanding that reinforces national unity and solidarity, strengthens the bonds of love, respect and friendship, assimilates national values such as homeland, nation, flag, martyrdom and veteranism, and develops the awareness of coexistence and responsibility.
The life and philosophy of leading figures who created and created the values of Turkishness and Islam will be taught as elective courses in primary schools The
life and philosophy of leading figures such as Hodja Ahmet Yese- vi, Haci Bektashi Veli, Mevlana, Haci Bayram Veli and Yunus Emre, who lived and kept alive the national and spiritual values of Turkishness and Islam, will be taught as elective courses in primary schools.
In primary education, techniques for getting to know the learner will be developed through computer-assisted "guidance"
and effective guidance will be provided through aptitude-weighted assessment methods;
from the sixth and seventh grades onwards, emphasis will be placed on elective courses to help reveal talents and guide vocational orientation.
Gifted and talented students will be provided with special education opportunities
Gifted and talented students will be provided with special education opportunities.
High-achieving secondary school students will be allowed to continue their university education without exams and with state scholarships according to their interests, wishes and abilities.
Identification, classification and classification of individuals in need of special education, expansion and supervision of special education institutions and re-evaluation of education programs according to the needs of the day will be ensured.
Emphasis will be placed on teaching Turkish well in kindergarten and primary education.
The infrastructure for the good teaching of at least one foreign language to students will be created.
Secondary education will be restructured to provide a transitional structure to the university system without exams
Secondary education will be restructured to provide an effective transition to the university system without exams, based on program type, allowing horizontal and vertical transitions, with a modern guidance and orientation service.
Emphasis will be given to formal and non-formal vocational-technical education and skill-building education, and
education programs will be reorganized based on professional standards.
The share of employability-enhancing vocational education in secondary education will be increased.
Program integrity will be ensured between vocational and technical secondary education institutions and vocational colleges.
Emphasis will be placed on improving the relationship, communication and interaction between business life and vocational and technical education.
Relationship, communication and interaction between business life and vocational and technical education will be improved.
Educational opportunities for Turkish children abroad to protect and develop their national identity will be increased.
Universities train the manpower that our country needs,
researcher
leading social development,
scientific methods that produce solutions to problems,
offering cooperation opportunities to artisans, craftsmen and industrialists in the light of science
and will be transformed into educational institutions that compete with world universities.
Higher education institutions will have administrative and financial autonomy and
the Council of Higher Education will be responsible for standard setting, coordination and planning.
The higher education system will be made more democratic and productive and
arrangements will be made to increase cooperation and harmony among students, institutions and academic staff.
The establishment of private universities will be encouraged by establishing an effective quality assessment and control system.
University entrance exam will be abolished The
The university entrance exam will be abolished, and instead, a university entrance system based on an effective orientation in primary and secondary education, on the curriculum to be implemented, on the success in secondary education and on the "maturation exam" to be held at the end of secondary education, and on equal opportunity will be put into practice.
The necessary technical and academic infrastructure will be established in universities.
In order to train university lecturers and scientists in Turkey, universities will be specialized in master's and doctoral programs
and the necessary technical and academic infrastructure will be established.
Teachers and lecturers equipped with the knowledge of the age will be trained and
these professions will be made attractive in terms of working conditions, personal and social rights.
Necessary research infrastructure and employment opportunities will be created in order to make our universities attractive for academic staff who are abroad for postgraduate study or teaching.
The personal rights and employment conditions of teachers and university professors will be brought up to modern standards.
Teachers will be given a monthly development indemnity of 230 YTL
Teachers will be given a "development indemnity" of approximately (230 YTL) equal to the amount of the "5000" indicator multiplied by the civil servant salary coefficient in order to contribute to research and self-improvement activities.
Within the framework of the lifelong learning approach, all kinds of non-formal education opportunities including e-education will be developed;
activities to provide skills and vocational training for young people will be increased;
local administrations, voluntary organizations and the private sector will be supported in this regard.
An environment in which teachers can educate themselves and their students in the best possible way will be prepared.
The promotion of teachers will be based on achievement, and the
achievements of parents, school management and students will be taken into account in the evaluation process.
2- Youth and Sports
Our Party, which considers investment in youth as the most important investment in Turkey's future, will solve the problems related to education, health, employment, social security and the utilization of free time.
A national sports policy will be implemented
We consider the implementation of a national sports policy to improve the physical and mental health of every member of Turkish society, especially the youth, as a requirement of the social state understanding.
Our approach to youth problems will be holistic in terms of economic, social, cultural and psychological aspects, and sociologists, psychologists and social workers will be utilized in addition to various professionals at the research, planning and implementation stages.
The level of education will be raised by ensuring that young people benefit from educational opportunities within the framework of equality of opportunity and
special attention will be paid to ensuring that the education they receive prepares them for the new conditions of the age.
Young people completing secondary education will be provided with vocational training, a good command of foreign languages and computer skills.
Youth Centers will be established
"Youth Centers" will be established where young people can make use of their free time, discover their personal talents, benefit from various social and cultural opportunities and guidance services carried out with a scientific understanding.
Young people will be given the opportunity to continue their higher education in the department of their choice within the framework of guidance in primary and secondary education and according to their abilities.
Scholarships, loans and housing needs of young people in secondary and higher education will be met.
Dormitory loans will be given to those who cannot afford a dormitory.
Dormitories, libraries and reading rooms will be transformed into cultural centers and modern spaces where computer and internet use and social activities can be carried out.
In secondary and higher education, students will be provided with the necessary opportunities for leisure time.
In order for young people with disabilities to continue their education normally, the obstacles created by the physical and social environment will be eliminated and the
necessary educational infrastructure and technological facilities will be increased.
Training infrastructure and technological opportunities will be increased for young people with disabilities.
Apprenticeship Training Centers will be made efficient and effective, and the technical workforce needed by the industry will be provided from these centers.
Working conditions of young people will be organized in a way that will allow them to continue their education and participate in social activities.
The reasons that push young people to crime will be eliminated,
rehabilitation centers and vocational training courses will be opened in order to reintegrate young people who have committed crimes and have been convicted into society by removing them from being potential criminals.
Strengthening the family institution in order to protect and raise awareness of young people against smoking, alcohol and all kinds of drugs, gambling and similar habits, prostitution, anarchy and terrorism,
emphasis will be placed on creating social and cultural environments where young people can express themselves,
sports and social activity opportunities will be improved.
Youth will be raised equipped with national values in order to fight against the elements aiming to destroy the indivisible integrity of the state with its country and nation.
Youth will be raised equipped with national and spiritual values.
Cultural programs that blend our national and spiritual values with modern and democratic elements will be prioritized.
Preventing people who are prone to making easy money, who are unqualified, have no savings and lack virtue from being presented as an example to the youth, and presenting hardworking, determined, patriotic, visionary and moral people as an ideal through popular media such as cinema and television, and making
arrangements to encourage and incentivize them in this way.
Research and promotion activities aimed at getting to know youth problems and youth more closely will be accelerated
and the high potential power of youth will be directed to useful fields.
Education-employment relations will be restored to a dynamic structure,
unemployment with a diploma will be prevented by making a manpower planning in accordance with the needs and
finding a job will not be left to coincidence.
Education-employment relations will be restored to a dynamic structure.
Multi-purpose and local characteristics will be taken into consideration in the establishment of sports fields and facilities, and
full capacity utilization of existing facilities will be ensured.
Sports will be rescued from its current chaotic environment through structural measures to be implemented, and
virtues such as love, morality, discipline, perseverance and diligence as well as success in sports and contribution to social cohesion will be brought to the forefront.
Violence, disorder and match-fixing in sports will not be allowed.
Emphasis will be placed on training the necessary manpower in line with our national sports policy,
existing educational institutions will be improved, those with adequate facilities and teaching staff will be transformed into Faculties of Sports Sciences, and
research and development activities will be accelerated.
The health of athletes will be given importance, sports medicine will be expanded for this purpose, and
athletes will be covered under the umbrella of social security.
Necessary measures will be taken for the development and dissemination of traditional sports along with modern sports branches;
oil wrestling and javelin will be internationalized.
Adequate infrastructure of suitable centers for winter sports will be established and international promotion will be made.
Multi-purpose and local characteristics will be taken into account in the establishment of sports fields and facilities.
Sports activities in schools will not only aim at physical development, but will also ensure that learners acquire and develop social, spiritual, mental and moral qualities.
In order to contribute to the cohesion and rapprochement of the Turkic world, `Turkic World Sports Festivals' will be organized.
Necessary investments will be made to organize international sports organizations and Olympic Games in every branch in our country
and activities in this field will be supported.
Easily accessible and sufficient areas for sports will be made widespread in cities.
Amateur sports activities will be supported
Amateur sports activities of local administrations and volunteer organizations will be supported.
Private sector organizations will be encouraged to support sports more.
3- Family, Women and Children
The institution of family will be strengthened and policies will be developed to protect the cohesion between family members and the integrity of the family.
Prevention of factors weakening the family and its social functions
Prevention of factors weakening the family and its social functions,
protection of women and their rights, and creation of an infrastructure to ensure a respectable place in society.
Employment opportunities will be improved to ensure that every family has an adequate and permanent income.
Non-working housewives will be provided with vocational skills to contribute to the family budget and the national economy.
Women will be prevented from being disadvantaged in the labor market by improving their employability.
women's social position will be strengthened
Women's education levels will be raised and their social position will be strengthened by ensuring that they play a greater role in the development process, business life and decision-making mechanisms.
The cultural, social, psychological and economic reasons that lead to women being subjected to violence will be eliminated and
civil society organizations and the media will be made to act sensitively on this issue.
Women's shelters will be activated.
The quality of life of children will be improved
and their future will be secured;
their sense of responsibility towards their families, society and the state will be developed; they will be
prevented from being pushed into crime, street and working life and substance abuse.
Disabled children and children in need of protection will be protected and raised primarily in the family
and social support will be provided to families in need.
Programs will be prepared to encourage children to engage in activities that promote culture, arts, sports, folklore, reading and research.
Children will be protected from harmful broadcasts and programs that include violence, sexuality and abuse, and that encourage substance abuse and smoking will be prevented from being broadcast during children's television viewing hours.
Child labor will be prevented
Child labor and all forms of child abuse will be prevented.
4- Culture and Art
Efforts to differentiate our national culture into sub-cultures lead to micro-differentiation between the elements that make up our cultural richness, distancing them from each other and weakening common values.
To protect and preserve Turkish Culture,
development and transferring it to future generations will be taken care of.
Emphasis will be placed on the correct use of Turkish in education, training, arts, culture, scientific institutions and the media.
Scientific studies will be emphasized in order to prevent negative effects such as cultural degeneration, cultural conflict and alienation.
Turkish language research will be emphasized and efforts will be made to ensure that Turkish is used internationally as a language of science, art, commerce and informatics.
Research will be conducted to reveal the history of Turkish science, culture and thought in all its richness.
Turkish will be made available in all its dialects and
relations with Turkic states and communities will be based on the principle of "unity in language, thought and work".
As a fundamental element of developing economic and cultural cooperation, importance will be given to language and cultural research in Turkish-speaking countries and communities, and
conditions will be created for Turkish to be understandable and usable in all its dialects.
Turkish Cultural Centers will be opened abroad, especially in Turkic Republics and European countries, to teach Turkish and promote Turkish culture.
In the face of different cultures, it will be ensured that national cultural values will be introduced to the nation and adopted in order to produce high quality and responsive literary works that will prevent new generations from suffering from culture shock and identity crisis.
practices that cause confusion of cultural values will be prevented
Practices that result in the destruction of our national cultural values and cause confusion of cultural values will be prevented.
Art will be ensured to guide society towards the right values.
International cultural cooperation programs will be developed to ensure that Turkish culture becomes a center of attraction for surrounding cultures.
Based on the idea that an understanding that is alienated from its own national art and despises it cannot be contemporary, art will be ensured to guide society towards the right values.
The artist will be protected at every age and in every era by being placed under the social security umbrella.
National Culture Industry will be established.
Cultural values will be transferred to the design of goods and services to ensure their survival and transmission to future generations.
Economic value will be created by exporting traditional handicrafts and material culture products.
A "National Culture Industry" will be established in the sense of creating and developing the basic institutions and mechanisms for the survival of Turkish culture and art.
Traditional Turkish arts and folklore will be protected, developed and promoted.
Maintenance, repair and conservation of heirlooms, protection of Turkish architecture, music, theater, cinema, cinema and literature
and its development will be made a state policy.
Written works, which have been the fundamental works of our national culture for centuries, will be prevented from disappearing, and
these works will be restored to our society in today's written and spoken language, and will
be made available to our libraries, schools and the market.
The Ottoman Archive will be classified, organized and made available to the literature.
The archives will be examined by scholars in order to reveal historical facts in the light of scientific research and investigations and to prevent distortions and slanders regarding Turkish history.
National cartoon industry will be developed.
Importance will be given to the production of educational and developmental works such as children's books, cartoons, comics, environment and environmentalism enriched with national motifs.
A "national cartoon industry" will be developed for the formation of children's personalities and the assimilation of cultural values
, and our culture will be promoted through the foreign sale of the films to be produced.
A national computer games software industry will be encouraged to prevent children from being influenced by foreign cultures through computer games.
Cultural artifacts in all libraries, museums and archives of the Turkic World will be identified and classified according to their subjects and put into service in various centers.
A national computer games industry will be encouraged.
Joint projects will be developed and implemented by the state and voluntary organizations in order to enable our citizens abroad to live their lives by preserving our national cultural values and protecting their identities, but without falling into conflict with the society they live in.
To this end, care will be taken to ensure that the broadcasts of national television channels are available for viewing, especially in countries with a high concentration of Turkish citizens.
Mass media will be encouraged to broadcast in a socially responsible manner
It will be ensured that mass media broadcast in a socially responsible manner in living and keeping alive our cultural values.
It will be important to ensure that those who make programs in areas such as flag, state, family, religion, homeland and army, which are symbols of our national unity and integrity, have sufficient knowledge and equipment;
Necessary works will be carried out for the classification, repair and protection of the architectural works of Turkish Culture in Turkey and abroad.
Foundations will be supported by the state and made fit for purpose
"Vakif Institution" will be restructured to reveal, protect and preserve Turkish foundation works,
foundations will be supported by the state and restored to their original purpose.
All kinds of support will be provided to our artists for the promotion of Turkish Culture and international art activities, and
artists who excel in all branches of art will be rewarded.
State Theaters will be restructured
and national theater organizations will be supported with the integrity of work, script and actor.
Studies will be carried out on the compilation and promotion of folk dances and the elimination of their problems and the
Turkish World Folk Dances Inventory will be prepared.
5- Labor and Social Security
In order for citizens to be sure of their future and to live a high standard of living, a social insurance system will be established in modern norms that will cover the entire population and operate on a benefit-burden basis.
The Sosyalsigortasis-system-which has been rendered unmanageable by the regulations and whose implementation has been continuously postponed-will be restored to a structure that is legally "enforceable", "acceptable" to the relevant parties and sustainable in terms of its financial dimension.
The information technology infrastructure of the social security system will be strengthened. The
information technology infrastructure of the social insurance system will be strengthened and fully automated, and a
structure that provides effective, accessible and sustainable services that prevent loss of rights and duplicate utilization will be established.
The Social Security Institution will take an active role in the cost and quality control in the pricing of health services, medicines and medical supplies.
The Pension Insurance Institution will be managed in an effective and autonomous structure with actuarial balance, fund management will be activated,
pensions will be paid to everyone according to their contribution to the system and pensioners will be ensured to share in the increasing prosperity.
Prevent uninsured work and employment
By preventing uninsured work and employment, the number of active insured will be increased
, thus ensuring the sustainability of pension insurance and
preventing the victimization of the insured.
Flexible working methods will be put into practice
Flexible working methods will be put into practice in a secure manner and
necessary arrangements will be made in the field of working life and social insurance.
Labor legislation is in favor of balanced protection of workers' and employers' rights,
will be redesigned in the light of policies that also take into account job protection.
Trade union rights will be brought in line with modern norms.
It will be ensured that the concept of civil servant is redefined and that employees outside a narrowed concept of civil servant are provided with modern trade union rights.
The Economic and Social Council, which is an important institution of social reconciliation in solving problems in working life and establishing labor peace, will be operated effectively.
Participation will be ensured by strengthening multiple consultation mechanisms in working life.
Trade unions will be encouraged to focus on education and research
It will redress the wage imbalance among employees,
a remuneration system based on merit and success and establishing a relationship between objectives and results according to performance will be established.
Unions should focus on education and research activities rather than just wage unionism,
orientation towards skill acquisition programs to adapt to changes in the work environment and technology
and contribute to labor peace.
The "Vocational Standards Examination and Certification System", which will directly affect the quality of education and the skill level of the workforce and ensure coordination between education and the labor market, will be effectively institutionalized.
6- Health
preventive and primary health care services will be provided free of charge by the state
The main objective will be to establish a health system that makes life meaningful and valuable, improves the quality of life and the joy of living, prolongs human life, and is based on the satisfaction of citizens and service providers.
Preventive health services and basic health services will be provided free of charge by the state in an easily accessible and usable manner in accordance with the principles of equality and equity.
Primary health care units will be strengthened
and the practice of "Family Medicine", to which citizens will directly apply, will be made widespread.
In rural areas, equipped health teams will be deployed to provide mobile services.
Technological infrastructure and manpower capabilities of hospitals will be improved and
management capacity will be enhanced.
Instead of chief physicians becoming hospital administrators, professional management will be introduced.
In hospitals, appointments for examinations, laboratory services and surgery will be computerized
and intervention of health personnel in the appointment system will be prevented.
Professional management will be introduced in hospitals.
"Full day-full capacity working" will be ensured in order to better utilize the patient bed, equipment and manpower capacity of hospitals.
For this purpose, improvements will be made in the personal rights of health personnel, and no
payment under any name that is not included in the fee schedule will be allowed.
Citizens will have the right to choose hospitals and physicians. With the
expansion of health insurance to the entire population, the exchange of money between citizens and hospitals and health personnel will end.
All payments on behalf of the citizen will be made by the health insurance.
Advertising and promotional activities of pharmaceutical companies targeting pharmacies and physicians, which affect the behavior of health personnel, lead to drug waste and increase drug prices, will not be allowed to exceed their purpose
and professional corruption will be prevented.
The Social Security Institution will be able to purchase services from all public and private hospitals under a protocol.
Citizens will have the "right to choose hospitals and physicians", provided that they remain within the framework of the Health Referral Chain.
It will be ensured that medical education is carried out according to modern standards, and that health personnel are assigned where they are needed after serving for a certain period of time in equipped health facilities in order to prepare them for the profession.
In order to provide emergency aid services in an additional, fast and high quality manner, manpower, physical equipment and equipment facilities will be improved.
Private health institutions will be encouraged to develop health tourism and generate economic value,
a health free zone will also be established.
Production of pharmaceuticals, vaccines, serums and medical equipment in Turkey will be supported.
Production of pharmaceuticals, vaccines, serums and medical equipment in Turkey and R&D activities in this field will be encouraged.
V. FOREIGN POLICY
1- The bankruptcy of foreign policy and the dark picture we face
It is vital for Turkey to pursue a multifaceted, decisive, consistent, realistic and dynamic foreign policy by fully mobilizing its national power resources.
Turkey is located at the center of the world's most strategic geography, with a painful historical past and a history of severe problems.
This challenging and troubled geography, comprising the triangle of the Balkans-Caucasus-Middle East, is the region with the highest potential for crisis and conflict in the world.
Turkey's central position in this ring of fire has exposed it to serious risks, threats and dangers.
In this environment, it is vital for Turkey to mobilize its national power resources and pursue a multifaceted, decisive, consistent, realistic and dynamic foreign policy.
However, for the last five years, foreign policy has been characterized by indecision, inconsistency and disorganization.
Turkey is in an uncontrolled, compass-less and very dangerous drift in foreign relations.
The result of impersonal policies based on appeasement and surrender, guided by the EU and the US;
Turkey, a potential regional power, has no influence or weight in international affairs,
It has been relegated to the position of a marginal, marginal and ineffective country whose word is not respected,
Our national interests have been jeopardized by cheap bargains,
our national causes have been seen as a burden and a hump
and sacrificed with a give-and-save mentality
and our national honor and dignity have been severely wounded.
This foreign policy approach, which is bankrupt in every field, has created a picture of defeat for Turkey.
2- Turkey's power and capabilities
Turkey is a great and powerful country with its historical heritage, vast state experience, national and spiritual values, high national cultural and moral consciousness and human resources:
Turkey is a great and powerful country with its historical heritage, vast state experience, national and spiritual values, high national cultural and moral consciousness and human resources:
Turkey, which has built universal empires, has a valuable historical and cultural heritage, a deep-rooted state tradition and experience.
As a crossroads of civilizations, religions and cultures, Turkey is a bridge of culture and civilization that unites Europe and Asia not only geographically but also culturally.
As the 21st century's strategic center of Eurasian geopolitics, Turkey has a very sensitive geo-strategic position.
As a transportation and energy bridge and gateway on the North-South and East-West axes, crossed by sea-air-land transportation routes and strategic raw-material corridors such as oil and natural gas, Turkey is also in a strategic economic position.
The spiritual values of Turkey, where the majority of the population is made up of Muslims who sincerely believe in their religious values
and the experience of secular and democratic states is also an important source of strength.
The common historical and cultural values that Turkey shares with countries in a vast geography stretching from the Balkans to the Caucasus, from the Middle East to Central Asia, and the
democratic values that form the basis of its long-standing relations with the Western world are important strategic assets of Turkey.
With these characteristics, values and privileged position, Turkey has the potential to be a major regional power.
This potential will be mobilized and realized in all its elements.
In world politics and international relations, Turkey will be a strong, respected, influential country whose friendship is sought and whose friendship is trusted.
The necessary political, economic and military deterrence will be exercised within the framework of international law and legitimacy against countries that carry their historical enmity against Turkey into the present and target Turkey's national interests.
3- Basic principles and objectives of foreign policy
National foreign policy will be determined according to Turkey's national interests and strategic objectives.
One of the most important elements of the Nationalist Movement's "Leader Country Turkey" ideal is to prepare the conditions for Turkey to pursue an effective and result-getting foreign policy.
An effective foreign policy that is multifaceted and that takes into account delicate balances will carry Turkey to a prestigious and powerful position in the global community of nations.
In light of the new dynamics shaping international relations, it is inevitable to develop a new and realistic strategic perspective in order to pursue a foreign policy with these qualities.
The main objective of our foreign policy will be the protection and promotion of Turkey's national security and interests.
National foreign policy will be determined according to Turkey's national interests and strategic objectives.
The goal of our foreign policy, which aims at peace, friendship and cooperation, will be to create a belt of stability and security around Turkey
and to develop mutually beneficial relations with all countries, especially our neighbors, while protecting Turkey's rights and laws.
Efforts will be made in good faith to find fair and lasting solutions to the existing problems with our neighbors in accordance with international law by protecting Turkey's rights and interests.
The rights and laws of our citizens abroad will be protected and their problems and problems will be one of our prioritized foreign policy targets.
Cognates and kin communities outside Turkey will be dealt with closely within the framework of international law and the principles guiding inter-state relations.
The Nationalist Movement will ensure that foreign policy is carried out with a deep-rooted state seriousness, style and understanding.
4- Relations with the Turkic World
The Turkic world will be the priority and privileged area of interest of our foreign policy.
The Turkic world will be the priority and privileged area of interest of our foreign policy.
Developing relations with the Turkish Republics of Cyprus, Caucasus and Central-Asia and Balkan countries in all fields
and its deepening will be at the forefront of our main objectives.
Cyprus is Turkey's most important national cause.
Turkey's inalienable rights over Cyprus arising from the Constitutive Treaties
and non-negotiable covenant rights and obligations.
Under no circumstances will Turkey's effective and de facto guarantee be diluted or negatively affected in the context of a political solution.
In the light of the developments following the Greek Cypriot side's accession to the European Union, a comprehensive review of the Cyprus policy and the adoption of new principles necessitated by the new circumstances has become inevitable.
In this context, a clear and decisive position will be taken to prevent the ground for the settlement of the Cyprus problem shifting towards the European Union and the erosion of the UN's "good offices mission".
At this point, it will be clearly demonstrated that a solution to be found in Cyprus based on a bi-zonal, bi-national and bi-state partnership structure is the only realistic model. a
solution to be found in Cyprus based on a bi-zonal, bi-national and bi-state partnership structure is the only realistic model.
A new approach will be developed to gradually remove the pessimism and despair in which the Turkish Cypriots are trapped.
To this end, maximizing Turkey's financial support,
preparing a new economic transformation and development plan
and concrete steps will be taken to implement this plan with national enthusiasm.
Removal of all obstacles to economic cooperation and trade between Turkey and TRNC
and the signing of the Treaty on Defense and Cooperation will be initiated expeditiously.
Our relations with countries in the Caucasus and Central Asia with which we share language, culture, ethnicity and history have been neglected and pushed to the background in recent times.
The strategic location and rich economic resources of the countries in the region have made this sensitive geography an important element of world balances.
Located at the center of Eurasian geopolitics, Turkey uses the opportunities provided by this position to maintain peace and stability.
and should be used to the maximum extent for the realization of economic cooperation projects that will serve this purpose.
For this purpose, providing a strategic vision to our foreign policy towards the countries in the region
and it is of great importance to redefine the principles of implementation on this basis.
A new and comprehensive political-economic program will be prepared to develop and strengthen our relations with the Caucasus and the Central-Asian Turkic world in all areas.
Concrete initiatives will be taken to transform this program into a joint action plan in close consultation with relevant countries.
In this framework, a new project will be launched to establish a "Turkic World Energy Council" and a "Turkic World Science and Technology Cooperation and Database Institution" in order to enhance cooperation in the fields of energy and advanced technology, which have recently gained special importance in the global arena.
The need for a new institutional structure, including the establishment of a ministry on the Turkic World for the coordination of Turkic World-Eurasian Cooperation policies and projects to be carried out in these areas, will be evaluated in all aspects.
5- Relations with the European Union
The recent history of Turkey-EU relations is a story of disappointment, full of blackmail, preconditions, impositions, unjust demands and pressures.
The EU sees Turkey as a handicapped country.
In this process, Turkey has been constantly marginalized.
It is now clear that the EU does not want to accept Turkey as a country with equal rights.
At the point we have reached today, Turkey-EU relations have been characterized as a "stalemate relationship", a "tutelage" relationship in the triangle of pressure, imposition and blackmail, tied to preconditions and mortgages.
Unless this crippling equation in which Turkey-EU relations are trapped is changed, it will not be possible to move the process forward and this diseased structure will become gangrenous and a deep crisis and rupture in relations will be inevitable.
Turkey is not obliged, doomed and needy to be dragged in the orbit of the European Union at any cost.
Today's fracture over Cyprus is only the first natural consequence of this sickening equation of relations and this tarmac structure.
The fundamental problem is this equation that the EU wants to impose on Turkey.
In this respect, it is essential to clarify and redefine the nature, basis and framework of Turkey-EU relations.
These issues will be discussed openly, honestly and frankly with the EU.
Turkey is a great and powerful country with its historical background, state experience, national culture, morality and consciousness, and human resources.
It is capable of defining its own problems and finding its own solutions.
Relations with the EU cannot be seen as a "question of identity and destiny" for Turkey.
In this respect, Turkey is not obliged, doomed and needy to be dragged into the orbit of the European Union at any cost.
In the current circumstances, both sides need a "period of strategic reflection" to make a sound, realistic and good faith assessment of this issue.
First of all, the European Union should make a serious and sincere assessment and clarify its position on Turkey's national unity and integrity; on terrorism and separatism; and on its demands from Turkey on Cyprus, Greece and Armenia.
6- Policy towards Iraq
Developments in Iraq have posed a multi-dimensional security threat to Turkey.
This has made it necessary for Turkey to implement an effective strategy of political deterrence backed by military power.
In this context, it is essential that the groups in Northern Iraq, which use the terror card as a weapon of threat against Turkey and engage in provocations targeting our national unity, be warned in a firm language.
Turkey will utilize to the maximum extent the means available to it to ensure that its policy of deterrence on these issues is effective.
Developments in Iraq have made it necessary for Turkey to implement an effective political deterrence strategy backed by military force.
Turkey is facing a de facto security threat and terrorist attack emanating from northern Iraq.
The use of one country's territory by another country for the purpose of aggression is an act of aggression that gives rise to the right of legitimate response under international law.
In the face of these actual threats and attacks, Turkey's right to legitimate defense arising from international law has arisen with all its elements.
Against this backdrop, Turkey must take all necessary measures to safeguard its national security.
7- Important dimensions of our foreign policy
It is of utmost importance that today's difficulties in our long-standing traditional relations with the United States be overcome through mutual efforts based on mutual trust and respect.
Our common goal should be to transform our relations into a truly strategic partnership with political, security and economic dimensions that serve the interests of both sides.
Multilateral policies will be pursued to develop relations and joint economic projects with neighboring countries, especially Russia, Ukraine, Iran and Syria, as well as Balkan and Middle Eastern countries, aiming at peace, stability and regional cooperation.
The development of our relations with the People's Republic of China, India, Pakistan, Japan and the countries of South East Asia and the
creation of an environment of dynamic economic cooperation are of particular importance.
