A THOUSAND HOPES CANDIDATES ARE THE CANDIDATES OF EVERYONE WHOSE HEART IS IN FAVOR OF TRUE DEMOCRACY
Democracy in our country,
social peace
at this historic time when we need equality, law and justice the most;
polarizing in every aspect of life,
We see that confrontational tendencies are becoming widespread.
As a result of the constitutional principle of 'justice in representation and stability in governance' being violated for years due to the high electoral threshold,
our country is facing a deep political crisis.
The presidential election has clearly demonstrated how deep and deep-rooted this political crisis and social rift is.
The rising demands for a more transparent and participatory democracy
create resistance from those who do not want to preserve the status quo and share their power, and
certain conjunctural developments sometimes feed this resistance and lead to the formation of a mass of supporters in favor of the status quo.
The secularist, anti-secularist conflict is fueled by the discourse of protecting the values of the republic
, and on this basis the preparations for a social rift are being rapidly completed.
However, individuals and institutions can only develop their ideas and visions for the future of society in a social structure that is open to all kinds of development and change and where a culture of consensus prevails.
To ensure this, it is more participatory,
We have no choice but to build a democratic structure that is nourished by a culture of reconciliation and empathy.
Democracy is not the monopolization of power in the name of stability and power,
and equal distribution of power.
In this context, when we talk about the democratization of political life and the pluralism of political parties representing this field, unfortunately, the political life, especially in the East and Southeast regions of our country, is not at all contemporary,
We don't have the chance to say democratic and good things.
Because after the establishment of the republic, almost all political parties that put up their signs in these provinces participated in democratic life,
questioning the traditional structure in which it exists
and did not act with the political mission of creating a new citizenry conscious of its rights,
with our citizens living here, not on the basis of modern and democratic political assumptions,
and relationships established through tribal, traditional, and religious institutions.
and politics in this geography has been dominated and ruled by people who represent the powerful and who can establish good relations with the state bureaucracy.
A new legal order was established with the Republic.
However, since there were no social and political grounds to nurture this order, a sense of belonging to the political environment created by this order did not develop
and powerful families, not civil society and political parties as in modern societies, mediated between the legal order of the state and the citizen.
The result has not been the democratization of society, but the
acquisition of new reputations and statuses that are virtually bestowed by the state.
A political and social life ruled by a "historical bloc" formed between the military-civilian bureaucracy and the agha-sheikhs.
This is the most fundamental truth of the republic, and as a state of law, it is inevitable for Turkey to face this reality.
This reality, which we can only recall here, can be seen and discussed in many ways.
It is not difficult to argue that the two military coups that followed this period strengthened political radicalism among our Kurdish citizens.
But first of all, at a time when we are not used to diversity at all and face serious problems due to the processes of change in the world,
it is necessary to see that a new tradition in our political life, which started with HEP and defended the democratic demands of our Kurdish citizens, developed on this social-political ground.
This tradition has been in our political life for 15 years.
And because this political tradition has been deprived of the right to representation in parliament, modern relations between the state and some of its citizens cannot be established today.
The Southeast problem or the Kurdish problem, however we define it, we can no longer ignore the fact that this problem has become about the right to political representation.
In this sense, the current electoral system and the problem of the threshold is more than just a matter of the DTP entering parliament, it is a national issue.
Most importantly, the state's reunion with its own citizens is not through the still consciously preserved tribal reality and traditional structures,
It has indeed become a question of national sovereignty, as it shows that it must be based on modern assumptions.
Because the way to establish such a modern relationship is through the adoption of an electoral system that ensures fairness in representation.
It is not possible to say that those who lack even this right are the true owners of national sovereignty.
Because if representative democracy means elections, then elections must ensure fair representation.
As is well known, 46% of the votes in the last elections were not utilized.
Those who want to interrupt the democratic process with coups and interventions similar to February 28 are now issuing memorandums over the internet.
The process of democratic development and progress has been characterized by militarist interventions that have not been accepted by society in any way and have been met with regret,
to be interrupted by memorandums
and political legitimacy is sought to be destroyed.
Those who perceive difference as a threat,
Moreover, the number of those who portray them as enemies is growing rapidly.
Society is being pushed to divide into hostile camps.
The brutal slaughter of people of different beliefs and convictions hurts our conscience and makes us restless and unhappy.
On the other hand, conflicts stemming from the Kurdish question, which has not been able to find a just and democratic solution, are on the rise.
There has been a huge increase in the number of people killed in clashes.
In this historical phase we are in, to play a role in solving social problems that wound the public conscience,
offer constructive solutions,
It is necessary to mobilize democratic mechanisms to develop social mobilization and sensitization.
We believe that society has the ability to act outside of traditional institutions and parties, which sometimes fail to provide solutions to problems, and sometimes cause these problems to worsen.
The difficulties of overcoming the electoral threshold are obvious.
To offer a new option to the society with independent candidates
and by overcoming the threshold in this way
and we believe in the necessity of protecting civil, not militarist, political life in this way.
With this belief, we believe that independent candidates will be successful in the elections.
and we see that it is possible to form a Parliamentary Group that can be the voice of all those in favor of democracy.
It will show that dialogue, not conflict, is what brings people together,
He will speak the language of peace, not war,
We will create civil policies against official structures and policies and create our own options,
Defend justice against injustice
It will bring compromise over imposition,
It will announce that we stand up for our differences against ethnic, religious and sexual uniformization,
That we no longer want to just be silent, criticize or be spectators,
that we want to participate in decision-making processes,
We will tirelessly declare that we want a country where we can live without shame or fear.
and we need a parliamentary group that will follow our demands.
During the current election process, communication within society has been largely destroyed and
channels of dialog have been closed.
Conflicts could, therefore, unexpectedly turn from vertical to horizontal and
Turkey could enter an ethnic conflict.
In this case, democracy
and no words of peace will be worth anything.
and nobody even wants to listen to such a word.
Even if this is not exactly the situation Turkey finds itself in, we need to see and understand that we are not far from it.
Because: We do not have democratic programs and institutions to resolve social conflict
We are unable to strengthen and expand our channels of democratic participation
Rethinking social justice
and we are unable to organize a strong frontal movement to establish
We have no will to confront violations.
We do not make any serious effort to share the suffering of people who are suffering from violations and losses.
We are unable to mobilize our resources to address the problems of rehabilitation of victims and survivors of the conflict.
We all have a stake in the consequences of the indifference to all these problems in our social life.
While the murder of Hrant Dink, the murders in Malatya, the bomb thrown on innocent civilians in Ulus - actions by those who believe that problems can be solved through violence - continue to threaten Turkey's future in every respect, we can no longer accept being indifferent to what is happening.
The last twenty-odd years have gone down in the history of our country as years of conflict.
After numerous periods of conflict and rebellion in the history of the republic in connection with the Kurdish question, we have lost more than thirty-five thousand of our citizens in this last one.
This problem, which we could have solved within our own borders, is now in danger of becoming an extension of the complex imperial relations and interests in the Middle East.
Paramilitary within our country,
There is an increase in confrontational and polarizing tendencies.
In many ways, the problem has become such that a solution cannot be postponed any longer.
On the other hand, we cannot ignore the grave consequences of the cross-border operation, which is being talked about more frequently today and around which a national consensus is being built.
The target of this operation, which was announced by the chief of staff himself that its aim was not to eliminate the PKK, is the Kurds who have gained a new political status in the geography where they live.
This operation, which is also opposed by the US and the EU, is a major blow to the EU process.
will therefore disrupt the democratic process.
and will undoubtedly face reactions from Kurds in Turkey.
This operation, which we do not wish to see happen, will cause great damage to Turkey's national unity and integrity.
Because this operation will be carried out against a people who are related to the Kurds of Turkey, who speak the same language, who live and share the same historical moments and heritage in many ways, namely the Kurds in our backyard.
However, on the Kurdish question, there is only one option that history has put before the rulers of Turkey: Tostop belittling and ignoring the Kurdish people, to
establish friendly relations with the Federated Kurdish Administration in Northern Iraq
and to adopt a democratic and just solution to the Kurdish question in Turkey.
In this sense, peace
and to plan the next stages of the long, thin road of democracy,
observing processes and institutions,
It will be the main task of the candidates of a thousand hopes to give it the breadth and richness of function to share new proposals and initiatives with society.
The Kurdish problem must stop being called a "security, public order or terrorism problem".
Because the parties to the conflict are not only the armed forces.
The problem is the problem of all of Turkey, urban and rural, civil society, political organizations, official institutions and other social segments.
The problem is essentially one of social peace.
and the question of establishing justice.
That's why we need a collective soul-searching from all sides,
can be solved through the creation of a common mind.
An immediate mutual cessation of armed conflict,
to buy time for civilian solutions to be developed
and will allow groundwork to be laid.
Definite permanence of fire,
perpetuate a climate of non-violence,
taking democratic steps
and will make it possible to develop democratic programs.
Otherizing, alienating
and all antagonizing discourses must be abandoned,
the language of politics, from discrimination that leads to violence
and nationalism.
Nationalist discourse in politics based on ancestry
and essentialist approaches breed their opposite,
It undermines trust and unity among citizens.
All obstacles to Kurds becoming active subjects of the political sphere must be removed.
For this; the current high electoral threshold
should be removed as an obstacle to fair representation.
All legal obstacles restricting and prohibiting the activities of political parties should be removed and
a new law on political parties should be enacted to pave the way for them to play an independent and effective role in the establishment of democracy and political space.
Decentralization should be paved the way for decentralization,
thus removing obstacles to representation and participation.
Society, with all its elements, can participate in the negotiations
and to develop various solutions.
and to create a peaceful political climate.
Kurdish political representatives and parties, peace
and should be recognized as legitimate and genuine interlocutors at all levels in the process of democracy-building.
As an expression of the will to live together; in such a way as to ensure the formation of a common political identity free from exclusionary definitions
the legal equality of all citizens
and guarantees freedom
and a new constitution should be drafted that equips them with equal rights and responsibilities.
All legal and de facto obstacles to women's participation in civil, official and political institutions and boards at all levels must be removed.
It will ensure participation in social, public and political life,
a planned political amnesty that would not offend the public conscience
or democratic participation program should be put in place.
Unsolved murders must be brought to light,
guilty officials must not be protected, they must be
tried and punished fairly.
The village guard system must be abolished,
The village guards should be transferred to other areas of employment along with their social security.
Measures should be taken to eliminate the effects of all economic, social and psychological devastation caused by forced migration.
The entire region must be cleared of mines immediately.
Intense poverty in the region
and redressing interregional imbalance
Development plans and projects based on positive discrimination should be realized.
Provinces such as Erzurum, Van, Diyarbakır, Batman and Van, which will play a leading role in the development of the region, should be turned into regional economic, cultural and social centers of attraction.
A portion of the production values obtained from the region's natural resources and energy enterprises (water, electricity, oil, etc.) is allocated to regional development
and should be allocated to be used to fight poverty
Necessary investments should be made urgently to make irrigated agricultural areas more productive,
The land to be cleared of mines should be opened to organic agriculture.
The region accounts for 47% of the country's cotton production.
This fact should be utilized in order to turn the region into a textile industry center that will create employment.
There is a large segment of the population between the ages of 0-14 in the region.
Raising this young population as productive individuals,
to be trained
and job opportunities
social peace, justice and
is imperative for the prosperity of the region.
The existence of different cultures in our country must be recognized as a historical and sociological fact, the
destruction of culture caused by denial and prohibitions must be ended, and the
cultural sphere must be protected from the pressure and attacks of cultural racism that leads to identity ghettoization.
Legal and legislative arrangements should be made for the free use of Kurdish in the public sphere, and
"multilingual official services and political activities" should be liberalized.
Obstacles to the research, development and education of Kurdish language and literature must be removed.
In education and governance practices, ethnic tensions between the state and society, as well as between different segments of society
and the emphasis on religious affiliation must end.
As Candidates of a Thousand Hopes, we know the importance and difficulties of our task.
However, we also know that Turkey's historical background is deep-rooted enough to provide a strong basis for this endeavor.
We are also sure that Turks, Kurds and all peoples sincerely and deeply long to build a new life together and for themselves.
Thousand Hopes Candidates are the candidates of everyone who says 'Either Real Democracy or Nothing'.
Bin Umut Candidates are the candidates of everyone who says 'I am a citizen of the Republic of Turkey, I am Kurdish, Arab, Circassian, Armenian, Greek, Assyrian, Abaza, but I am not an enemy to anyone'.
We call on everyone in this hall to carry the candidates of Thousand Hopes to parliament with our votes.
Our call is for our country to build its unity as a strong democracy on solid foundations,
with no hope of war,
to all our citizens who do not consider it an imposition for consciences to speak.
A THOUSAND HOPES CANDIDATES
